Public Statements
Stop Excessive Energy Speculation Act of 2008--Motion to Proceed--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 22, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


STOP EXCESSIVE ENERGY SPECULATION ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED--Continued -- (Senate - July 22, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the Energy bill that is on the floor today. This is a great debate, it is a needed debate, and one that is happening every day across our country, in every community and at every gas station and coffee shop--as to how to get these energy prices down and what we need to do to get these energy prices down. So I am delighted we are getting the chance to talk about it on the floor.
I think people across the country are absolutely, there is no question about it, completely fed up. They are tired of it. It has hit them directly and it has hit them hard. It is making people change lifestyles or even do without essentials simply to be able to get to and from work or to and from appointments, schools, and hospitals. This is a big, huge problem that Americans are facing daily and that we need to address and that we need to solve and we need to deal with.
Unfortunately, this base bill does not go to the heart of the question. I am delighted we are having a chance to talk about it, but I wish we would go to the heart of the question of what we need to do, which is to produce more, to create more options for people across the United States, and to conserve.
A fact that I think people are recognizing, but one we don't talk nearly as much about, is the huge transfer of wealth that is taking place from this country to other places. This year alone, importing a million barrels of oil less per day in the first 5 months of this year would have reduced the year-to-date trade deficit by more than $14 billion. If we had imported a million barrels of oil less a day, we could have reduced that trade deficit by $14 billion. It would have increased our GDP and increased domestic employment and certainly had some impact on prices. That is something we don't talk about as much, but it is a big part of the equation as well.
Obviously, we need more domestic energy production. We are witnessing this massive transfer of wealth because we don't have adequate domestic energy production. Every year, to buy oil, America sends well in excess of half a trillion dollars to foreign countries. In fact, in 1972, Saudi Arabia's foreign exchange earnings were about $2.7 billion. That was in 1972. In 2006, it was over $200 billion. Clearly, we are having a huge transfer of wealth. And where is that wealth coming from? It is coming from people pulling up to gas stations and filling up their pickups; diesel fuel consumption. It is coming from the American consumer, and it should be going back into Americans' pockets instead of going overseas. So we are seeing too much of that taking place right now.
We have some options, and different people have talked about different ones, but I want to highlight several that I think are key for us to be looking at for our future in producing more. One is the oil shale regions of Wyoming, Utah, and Colorado. I have a quick picture of this. I think some people, hopefully, have seen this.
Here is an area that has been frozen out of production by law that could be brought into production. It has huge reserves in it--500 billion or more potential--and it is being held off the market. So while we transfer billions and trillions of dollars of wealth to regions of the world--and in many cases they don't like us--we are holding off production of areas in the United States that we could produce from in an environmentally sound way. We have huge reserves here, and that makes no sense to most people across my State of Kansas as to why you would do that. What is the purpose here? We can do this in an environmentally sound way. We can do it with American technology and know-how, and we need to get that done.
Another thing we need to do, particularly from my vantagepoint, coming from the Midwest, is to do more with biofuels. A recent study from Merrill Lynch found that the world's use of biofuels has kept oil prices 15 percent lower than they would be without these alternative fuels--15 percent lower. So you are looking at 60 cents a gallon of that $4 gasoline that is being held lower because we have biofuels. That is something we need to continue to do more of.
We are producing ethanol plants throughout the Midwest and throughout the country. We are moving into cellulosic ethanol, and we have the first four of those plants coming on line. It is an innovative technology of taking, in many cases, what we would refer to as agricultural waste and turning it into ethanol. That is a key part of our growing and our marketplace that we can utilize.
I think we also need to look at other fuel sources, such as methanol and biodiesel. Earlier today, a tripartisan group of my colleagues and I introduced a bill that would require 50 percent of the new cars made in the United States, or sold in the United States by 2012, to be flex-fuel vehicles. These are vehicles that you can pull up to a gas pump and put gasoline, ethanol, methanol, or any combination of those three into the car. This is a goal the big three auto manufacturers in the United States say they can achieve--50 percent by 2012--and then we up it to 80 percent 3 years later, adding a 10-percent increase of the new cars that have to have that option of the flex fuel.
Now, if you were to take that situation today, what that creates, instead of having a monopoly of dependence on oil, you have an option and a competition, which is going to reduce price. You can pull up at the pump and say: Okay, I want to put in E-85 ethanol--85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. What is the price on ethanol today? Versus: Okay, let's see what it is on gasoline versus methanol. What is it I can get here? The car or the pickup can read any of the fuels. This is a technology that is estimated to cost about $100 per car to put it in but is priceless in creating options and competition for the fuel sources in the United States.
Somebody asked me at the press conference that Senators LIEBERMAN and SALAZAR and I held on this: Well, isn't this going to hurt plug-in technology or plug-in cars? I said: It is my estimation and hope that in the future you are going to be able to buy a plug-in hybrid flex-fuel car that you plug in at night, go the 20 miles on electricity--it is a hybrid, so it recharges and uses that electricity whenever it can in the vehicle--and then it is a flex-fuel vehicle, so you can use ethanol, methanol, gasoline, or any combination thereof. That creates that competition on fuel sources, whether it is electricity, ethanol, methanol, or gasoline, and we will reduce price. These are things we need to do to move forward and get off of our reliance on foreign oil and the addiction we have to foreign oil.
We also need to innovate. I am going to show a chart here of what I thought was a very innovative project in the western part of my State that is still on the drawing boards. It has been blocked to date, but it is an integrated bioenergy center near Holcomb, KS. It was going to use coal-fired technology to produce electricity. They were going to take their CO2 emissions and run them through an algae reactor. They were projecting they would reduce 40 percent of the CO2 emissions, running it through the algae, and then taking the algae and making it into biodiesel. So you have this integrated center where you have this sort of biodiesel and algae reactor fuel as well associated with it because of the heat production, and the use of that and the ethanol plant where you can get these integrated systems together. At the end of the day, you reduce your CO2 emissions, increase your fuel production, and it would be good for the economy. So you are balancing the economy, energy, and the ecology of the environment. You get the three Es balanced together and moving forward in an innovative made-in-America type of plant.
Those are the sorts of innovative solutions that we need to move forward with and to discuss in this debate so that we create a competition. We need to create options, we need to produce more supply, and by producing more supply, we are going to reduce price in this price point. And by producing
more supply in the United States, we are going to stop the transfer of wealth to the degree that we have seen taking place from the United States, out of our pocketbooks, and into, unfortunately, the pockets of our competitors, who, in many cases, don't like us.
I am the ranking member on a subcommittee that has held hearings on this particular bill, and that is the Appropriations subcommittee that funds the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. We have looked at these issues. And while we are having an important debate here--I think it is a good discussion--I think the hearings we have held have been very positive in reflecting on how much money has been coming into a number of places in the futures market. Yet if we are going to get the answer to the basic question here of trying to reduce price, the clear way is to deal with the supply-and-demand equation--increasing supply and reducing demand--and not just saying: Okay, it is all because of speculation that these prices are going up.
I do believe it would be wise for us to limit pension funds, the amount pension funds can put in the commodities market, but primarily as a feature of how you help the pension funds, because commodity markets are inherently volatile, moving wildly at various times, and it seems not to be a wise place to put large amounts of pension funds. But this bill goes far beyond that, to the point that the Kansas City Board of Trade--it is on the Missouri side of Kansas City, but a number of people working there live in Kansas--is strongly opposed to this and thinks it will hurt the commodity futures market rather than help it. You are going to hurt the price discovery mechanism, and you may well, in the long term, end up driving up prices through these features. They have been in my office previously drawing attention to outside funds coming in and saying this is something that ought to be looked at, but when they look at this answer, they are saying it is way over the top. It doesn't fit the need that we have of the day.
I wish to make the point on where we need to limit the pensions funds in the commodity futures market. As public pension funds have grown in size and expanded their investment portfolios beyond traditional equity and bond investment activities, significant losses by some major pension funds have led to greater calls for scrutiny and investigation.
For example, the San Diego County pension fund lost about half of its $175 million investment in a hedge fund when the fund crashed due to what turned out to be a disastrous bet on natural gas, getting into a commodity market. All told, approximately 20 percent of the pension fund's assets are invested in alternative strategies through hedge funds and other money managers.
That is my point here. I think the right place to look is a limitation on the total amount of monies that can be put in hedge funds, into the commodities futures markets, to protect the pension funds, rather than saying this is the silver bullet that is going to cure the increase in energy prices that we have.
Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for the chance to be able to speak on this bill. My colleague from Alaska, whose State is absolutely critical to expanding our energy supply, is here to speak further about the need for production.
I yield the floor.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
