Public Statements
Tom Lantos and Henry J. Hyde United States Global Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Reauthorization Act of 2008--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 15, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008--Continued -- (Senate - July 15, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I wish to speak in favor of the bill. I inquire of the manager if I need to receive any time allocation. I would like to speak for up to 10 minutes.
I rise to speak in favor of the U.S. Global Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Reauthorization Act of 2008 as it will be modified by the managers' amendment.
I have had the pleasure over the years to work with Senator Lugar and Senator Biden. These are men of integrity, knowledge, and, I add, wisdom. They have seen a lot, done a lot. I think they have seen a few things that work, and I think they have seen a few things that don't work. This is one of those rare foreign policy programs that really works. Unfortunately, too often they do not.
While I am here, I wish to recognize the work of my colleague from Indiana for getting nuclear material out of the Soviet Union as one of those programs that works, and the world is a safer place because it works.
I have seen a lot of foreign policy issues that have not worked. Those sorts of things discredit foreign policy, particularly spending in the foreign affairs field. This is one of those programs that has worked. Because of it, hundreds of thousands of people are alive today who would not be alive. If we are able to get this reauthorization and some additional support, there will be more who will be alive.
It is amazing how grateful people are if you help save their lives. The approval rating of the United States in Africa is the highest in the world, even including North America. I think it is primarily because of the health care support the United States does, and this is the leading bill to do it.
I am pleased as well that it is HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. Those three are not the only scourges that exist, but they are certainly the main ones, and they are ones that if we can go at each of them together, we are going to save people's lives. We are going to take away a lot of the difficulty--not all of it, by any means--but we are really going to help people where they need help, and this bill does it.
We all know that from whom much is given, much is expected. We have been given much in the United States. It is not that we don't have people struggling here as well because we certainly do. But a number of us have traveled to many of these countries where the HIV/AIDS scourge has been, and we have had a great deal of difficulty with it as well.
I have been to places where they have not had any resources to combat this disease at all. People wasting and dying in these terrible situations just have no hope at all. This gives them hope. This gives them help.
Since its creation in 2003, the Global AIDS initiative, commonly known as PEPFAR, has been a bright point of U.S. foreign aid policy. The United States has become the world's leader in prevention, treatment, and care for individuals suffering from this terrible disease. That 2003 law, which I was pleased to support and have somewhat a hand in helping it move on through, now needs to be reauthorized to continue this success.
From the beginning of this program, it has been my intention to do all that I could to make sure any reauthorization of the Global AIDS Program stayed true to its mission. This is a mission that has worked. We should not be taking it into other fields. We should stay with what this one program has accomplished. Often Government programs, when they lose sight of their mission, also lose their effectiveness. This one needs to stay true to its mission. I want to be certain it stays with this lifesaving program and not slip into other areas, some perilous waters that some may want it to do as it will get divisive for this body and for the United States.
Some people may want to push some of these funds over time into family planning or population control, possibly into abortion. That then divides us. Regardless of how one feels about these programs, it divides this body. If we can stay with the primary mission of what this has been about, it can keep us united. And the people on the ground receiving this treatment and assistance need us to stay together and stay closely focused on what the mission of this program has been.
I further want to see to it that fidelity programs, which have proven their effectiveness internationally over the last 5 years, will remain an integral part of this program, and that recently with the President of Uganda and the First Lady--they were the ones who first started this program, ABC: A, abstinence; B, be faithful; and C, condoms. They started reducing their AIDS rates in Uganda. It worked so well. We want to make sure all three of those aspects stay in this program too.
Again, I am grateful, in working with Chairman Biden and Senator Lugar, to keep this bill on its lifesaving course and keep us pulling together with the administration on this issue.
While I, and I am sure many of my colleagues, have additional provisions we would like to see included, the carefully tailored compromise is a credit to the bill managers.
On my part, I am pleased to see that abstinence and fidelity programs continue to be important components of prevention. The pledge to oppose sex trafficking is maintained. That is important. Conscious clause protection language is included to prevent discrimination against faith-based organizations such as World Vision, Catholic Relief Services, and many others that are so key to putting boots on the ground in this battle against AIDS.
I am concerned about the price tag on this overall bill. I do have concern about ratcheting it up that much that fast, given our own deteriorating economy and the difficulty we have. We have had a slow growth rate recently. I am hopeful that can improve, but I think for us to look at that big of an increase when we are looking at a deteriorating Federal budget situation is not responsible on our part. I hope we can get that budgetary number up, but not as high as it is put forward in this bill. That would be responsible of us.
The Global AIDS Program called for by President Bush and brought to fruition by a strong bipartisan effort in Congress in 2003 has touched, and I might indeed say saved, the lives of many people worldwide. I am proud to have supported that 2003 law. I am pleased to be able to support this reauthorization effort.
Let's stay true to the mission, let's get a number that we can hit, and let's continue to save lives with the abilities that we have been granted as a country to be able to do that.
Madam President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
