Public Statements
Brownback Comments on Committee Mark Up of Three Appropriations Bills
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 11, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Comments on Committee Mark Up of Three Appropriations Bills
$78 million included for projects in Kansas; Democrats defeat Brownback proposal to fund Eisenhower Library, send funds to IRS
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today announced Appropriations Committee passage of three FY2009 Appropriations bills: the Energy and Water Development bill, the Transportation/Housing and Urban Development bill, and the Financial Services and General Government bill.
"I am pleased that the Committee is proceeding in its goal to mark up all twelve annual appropriations bills, and I hope that Senate Democrat leadership will schedule floor time for these important measures without delay," said Brownback. "Although I support the major aspects of all of these bills, I am disappointed that my Democrat colleagues defeated my amendment that would have provided necessary upgrades to the physical plant in order to protect documents at the Eisenhower Library in Abilene, choosing instead to earmark the $2 million for upgrades at the IRS."
The Eisenhower Library in Abilene, Kansas, was built during the 1960s, and its heating, cooling, and plumbing infrastructure does not meet current standards for archived document protection. The National Archives and Records Administration has listed this project as its number two priority. The Chairman of the Subcommittee, Richard Durbin (D-IL), had included $22 million for NARA's number three priority, the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library, and he led the fight against funding the Eisenhower Library.
Brownback continued, "I am frustrated that the Committee's Democrats have decided extend partisanship to the past."
The Transportation/Housing and Urban Development bill included many provisions that will be of great benefit to the State of Kansas. $110 million is made available for the Essential Air Service Program, of which Kansas is the single largest recipient to funds. The Office of Aircraft Certification, which inspects and approves new aircraft and aircraft parts produced by Kansas manufacturers, received an $800,000 in order to reduce backlogs. Also, the Committee moved to include funding to fix the shortfalls in the Highway Trust Fund so that Kansas' important highway projects can go forward without delay.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=300511
