Public Statements
Remembering Senator Jesse Helms
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 8, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


REMEMBERING SENATOR JESSE HELMS -- (Senate - July 08, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to a great patriot--and a good friend--who passed away on our Nation's Independence Day.
It seems somehow so fitting that Senator Jesse Helms should have left us on July 4, the anniversary of America's foundational document. Senator Helms was, above all else, a patriot who loved his country and the ideals we embody as a nation. And he spent his entire adult life defending those ideals, beginning with his service in the U.S. Navy in World War II.
Jesse always fought for what he believed in, even at great personal--or political--cost. Two things friends and foes alike acknowledged, and admired, about Senator Helms were that you always knew where he stood and that his word was as good as gold. He was a man of enormous integrity, as all who dealt with him on a personal and professional level can testify.
While he was a formidable politician, there were some things that, for Jesse, were more important than political success or winning elections.
He spent much of his three decades in the Senate standing up for the principles he believed so deeply in, even if that meant taking on powerful opposition, sometimes in his own party. But as Jesse famously said, ``I didn't come to Washington to be a 'yes man' for any president, Democrat or Republican ..... I didn't come to Washington to get along and win any popularity contests.''
What he did win in Washington was the enduring affection of people on both sides of the political aisle who found that this tough-as-nails politician was also a gracious, generous, compassionate human being. As Linda Chavez so aptly said in tribute to Senator Helms, ``he took his politics seriously, but he didn't use political differences as an excuse for bad manners.'' He embodied southern charm, good manners, and courtliness. He seemed to recognize that there is never a contradiction between standing up strongly for your political and philosophical principles and always treating people, including those who disagree with you, in a way that always respects their human dignity.
Nor was this just a public display of good manners--Jesse Helms' Christian charity extended to his private life as well. Having been active in the pro-life movement for a long time I can't tell you how many times I have heard the accusation that pro-lifers only care about life from conception to birth--after that, they have no interest in caring for their fellow human beings.
Well, suffice it to say that Senator Helms disproved this caricature. Jesse and his wife Dot were always what I like to call ``pro-life and whole-life.'' In 1963, after 21 years of marriage, they adopted a disabled child, their son Charles, after they read a newspaper article in which the child, who was 9 at the time, wished for a mother and a father for Christmas. Senator Helms never used adopting a child with cerebral palsy to soften his image as a hard, uncaring right-wing ideologues--in fact, he refused to talk about it in interviews. But Charles was, he said, a great blessing and was the center of his family. He served for years on the boards of private charities to help others with cerebral palsy.
For those young people who had the opportunity to work with him, he was a wonderful mentor. More than anything else, he loved to talk to young people, give them guidance and encouragement, and show them the ropes of public service. Those who knew the dynamics of his office testified that he was always more accessible to young people than he was to high-powered lobbyists. One of his great legacies is the Jesse Helms Center near his hometown of Monroe, NC, an organization centered on young people and dedicated to assuring that future generations fully understand and appreciate the blessing and opportunities of this great country.
What is perhaps most obvious about Senator Helms was that he was, simply put, a political giant. He was among the first to take up the pro-life cause in Congress, and his dedication to that cause never wavered. He was a lifelong opponent of communist tyranny, and his leadership in key Cold War battles was indispensible. Ronald Reagan could never have achieved all that he did achieve without Senator Helms strong and steady leadership as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee.
And that was not all the Reagan revolution owed to Jesse Helms. Like Ronald Reagan, he left the Democratic Party after many years as a Democrat because he believed it no longer embodied the principles he believed in. He was on the cutting edge of transforming the solid south from the Roosevelt coalition to the Reagan coalition. His support for Ronald Reagan in his State's primary in 1976 was the key to Reagan's victory, and the beginning of the revival of his fortunes that led to the Reagan landslides of 1980 and 1984.
Senator Helms' political leadership will be missed, but his impact on our Nation will remain as his lasting legacy. We mourn the passing of this great American, and we offer our heartfelt condolences to his family, his friends, and to the people of his beloved North Carolina and across the Nation who loved him.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
