Public Statements
Brownback Applauds Partial Resumption of U.S. Beef Trade with South Korea
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 26, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Applauds Partial Resumption of U.S. Beef Trade with South Korea
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded the South Korean government for partially reopening beef trade with the United States.
"I am pleased the South Koreans have taken this first step in resumption of beef trade," said Brownback. "I look forward to the South Koreans fully reopening the markets to all beef. Regardless of age, U.S. beef is the best beef in the world."
Trade today will resume under conditions established in a private-sector agreement reached between U.S. exporters and Korean importers. The Koreans will request beef from cattle younger than 30 months and the U.S. will export only meat below that age. Brownback recently has met with several Korean officials including Republic of Korea Assembly member Kwon, Taeg Ki, and former ROK Presidential Envoy and a visiting professor at SAIS/Johns Hopkins Lee, Jae Oh. Brownback earlier this year met with U.S. Trade Ambassador Susan Schwab to discuss the issue of international beef trade.
Brownback continued, "Regardless of the age of the cattle from which it is derived, U.S. beef is of the highest quality in the world and is approved for export under World Organization for Animal Health guidelines, and poses no health threat whatsoever to consumers. The full resumption of beef trade needs to move forward."
In 2003, the South Korean market closed to U.S. beef imports, after a Canadian-born cow found in Washington State tested positive for BSE. South Korea imported more than 199,000 tons of U.S. beef in 2003, valued at $880 million, making South Korea America's third largest beef export market. CattleFax estimates that the Korean market is worth over $1 billion dollars annually to the United States, and $192.5 million to the state of Kansas.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=299775
