Public Statements
Hearing of the Joint Economic Committee - Is the Skyrocketing Price of Oil a Bubble or a New Reality for the U.S. Economy?
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 25, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It's always a pleasure to join you even if your statements sometimes can be a bit one-sided. I guess that's why we have two sides up here.
I am reminded that on the price setting equation that I learned in basic economics that there are two factors that go into price. I don't think they've changed this formula much over all the research, over all the years. This one seems to be pretty well set. You have a supply curve and you have a demand curve, and where those intersect seem to be a point called price. And those are two pieces to setting of fundamental price. If the panel disagrees with that, I hope later on that you'll correct me and correct economics for the world.
But you have two pieces of this thing. I think clearly what you have to do is you've got to work on both sides of the equation. You've got to work on the supply side of the equation. You've got to work on the demand side of the equation if you're going to be able to try to bring price down. You want less demand. You want more supply to be able to bring that price point down. Overall, we can work, I guess, against fundamental economics. We can try to jimmy-rig a system, but at the end of the day this is what's going to happen globally.
And we've been pretty good, the United States has, on demand side. As far as you look at our gasoline growth curve, it's been fairly flat, pretty stable. It's gone up a little bit, not a lot. You look at the world demand for gasoline, it's skyrocketed. We all know that. We all know that we can control a certain piece of the demand set of the equation within our own country, or have at least impact on that. We can't on world situation. We also know we can have more impact on our supply here at home and that those two pieces go together.
Now, Democrat response -- and they've had one -- Windfall Profits Tax, more regulation, no nuclear energy. Those go at driving price up. They don't get you more supply in the system. I guess they could reduce demand by increasing the price artificially with more taxes. That could get at your demand in the U.S. It doesn't get at your global demand point at all on global prices, 'cause we can't put those taxes on global -- or people around the world. That's not going to get the issue there.
Nothing done on production. We've certainly done a lot of expansion on ethanol production, on biofuels. I don't know anybody that's opposed to -- I guess some people are opposed to expansion of biofuels. Certainly looking at cellulosic ethanol. We're getting long, strong support for that. Hopefully on biodiesel we'll be able to go forward. Wind -- we're going to be able to go forward. We all support that.
At the end of the day you still have a gasoline-based system at the present time and into the near future, and you're going to need more oil production and more oil supply. And if you're saying we're going to hold out of production, major tracks that have the highest potential for production -- that's going to reduce your overall supply equation in this country.
I want to read a quick quote here that was said by a gentleman I think most people are familiar with. Says, "America must get to work producing more energy. Republican program for solving economic problems is based on growth and productivity. Large amounts of oil and natural gas lay beneath our land and off our shores untouched because the present congressional majority -- saying that in parentheses -- seems to believe that the American people would rather see more regulation, more taxes, and more controls than more energy. It must not be thwarted by a tiny minority opposed to economic growth, which often finds friendly ears and regulatory agencies for its obstructionist campaigns. Make no mistakes. We will not permit the safety of our people, our environmental heritage to be jeopardized, but we are going to reaffirm that the economic prosperity of our people is a fundamental part of our environment."
Now, I'd like to take credit for that original thought, but it's paraphrased slightly, spoken 28 years ago by Ronald Reagan when he accepted the nomination to be the Republican nominee for president when he was nominated that year. We have got to work on the supply side of this. So we've got places we can agree on, a number of these issues, but until you get at that fundamental in supply -- and one final point I might mention is my colleague to the right, Senator Bennett -- when his dad was a senator, they started talking about the oil shale region in Utah and its availability and more oil there than in Saudi Arabia. And yet, it has been held out of production. It has not been allowed to be (exploited ?).
It is past time, and we can do it in an environmentally sensitive fashion. We need to do that. We need more flex fuel vehicles. We're going to have a bipartisan bill to require that half of our fleet be in vehicles sold that have flex fuel chips in it. But we've got to get at both sides of this equation. We'll work with you on the demand side. We agree on most of that. The supply side is one we cannot ignore, we must address.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://jec.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Press.PressReleases
