Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 18, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - June 18, 2008)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to engage my distinguished colleague from Ohio in a colloquy.
Mr. BROWN. I yield to the Senator.
Mr. BROWNBACK: I want to express my support for our provision included in the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, FDAAA, signed into law this Congress, to award an FDA priority review voucher to encourage the development of treatments for tropical diseases. According to the World Health Organization, roughly one billion people, or nearly one of every six people worldwide, are affected by at least one tropical disease. However, less than 1% of the roughly 1,400 drugs registered between 1975 and 1999 treated such diseases. These diseases are often referred to as the ``neglected diseases'' because of the lack of modern treatments available to address them and their disproportionate impact on very low income populations.
Since the purpose of the priority review voucher is to encourage research and development for diseases for which there is currently little or no market, our intent is that the priority review voucher creates a strong incentive for investment in the often financially risky business of drug and biologic procurement for neglected diseases. Basic economics dictate that the voucher will create the strongest incentive by being freely transferable among private businesses, with each voucher having the capacity for transfer multiple times, without restriction. This interpretation is the intent of Congress. Any imposition of restriction by the Food and Drug Administration on the number of times and manner of transfer of the voucher will have the effect of negating its value, which is contrary to Congressional intent. I yield to my distinguished colleague to elaborate on this point.
Mr. BROWN. I concur with my colleague on the importance of creating a strong incentive for development of treatments for neglected, tropical diseases through a freely transferable priority review voucher. Accordingly, I rise today to introduce, along with my colleague from the State of Kansas, a bill that would codify the authors' intent of two parts of the priority review voucher law. First, any priority review voucher awarded under the provision is freely transferable without restriction on the number of times it can be transferred. Second, the priority review voucher can be redeemed only for a human drug application that is not already pending with the Food and Drug Administration. I encourage my colleagues in Congress to join us in ensuring that this legislation moves quickly through the legislative process.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I thank my friend, the Senator from Ohio, for introducing this important measure and for his remarks.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
