Public Statements
Medicare Improvement for Patients and Providers Act of 2008--Motion to Proceed
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 12, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


MEDICARE IMPROVEMENT FOR PATIENTS AND PROVIDERS ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED -- (Senate - June 12, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I appreciate my colleague from Alaska raising some of these points. I was thinking particularly about the point that the markets react to what actions are taken, and that is a key point on driving prices down.
I used to report on commodity markets a number of years ago when I was a broadcaster. The idea of buy on the rumor and sell on the fact is something to which markets react. So we could help on a near-term basis driving these prices down if we would act. Plus, I like the idea of pegging a price of a gallon of gasoline. When the average prices across the country hit $4.50 a gallon, let's give Governors the option of opening some of these closed-off lands. These are ideas we ought to be talking about on getting energy prices down.
TORNADO DAMAGE IN KANSAS
Mr. President, the reason I have come to the floor is not to talk about energy prices but to talk about what happened in my State last night. We had devastating tornadoes. A series of tornadoes struck parts of our State and caused at least two deaths and a huge amount of damage in a swath 150 miles long. The counties of Ellsworth, Saline, Dickinson, Riley, Clay, Geary, Pottawatomie, and Jackson all suffered severe damage last night.
The town of Chapman in Dickinson County, with a population of 1,400, appears to be the hardest hit. Initial estimates are 85 percent of the homes and businesses have received some damage, and up to 70 percent of the town may be destroyed.
One person is reported dead in Chapman. Also one person is reported dead in Soldier, KS. That is in Jackson County. Certainly, my prayers and the prayers of many go to the victims and their families who are struggling and suffering.
Damage was also reported in Salina, KS, and Manhattan, KS. The northern part of Kansas State University apparently received extensive damage.
I am hopeful my colleague Pat Roberts and I will be able to travel with others this afternoon to look at some of that damage.
Evidently, the tornado touched down near the old field house on Kansas State University campus, the Ahearn Field House, and traveled across campus. There was damage sustained on Cardwell Hall, Ward Hall, Burt Hall, and the engineering complex. Ward Hall houses a nuclear reactor, a teaching facility nuclear reactor, and the building received some damage. The reactor is safe.
The Wind Erosion Laboratory, a federal laboratory on the K State campus, apparently was destroyed.
Damage was also reported in several of the parking lots with cars being tossed around. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon house received extensive damage. Thankfully all the residents there are safe.
While it is early, the damage will be well into the millions of dollars. My office and the office of my colleague Pat Roberts contacted FEMA and State officials this morning, and we continue to work closely with both State and Federal officials to help the citizens of Kansas rebuild.
This has been a very difficult, extraordinary tornado season. I was in north central Kansas on Monday of this week looking at damage to another of our towns, Jewell, KS, and the extensive damage there by a tornado within the past 2 weeks. We have had these on a periodic basis. We are getting a lot of hail damage and a lot of wind and rain damage throughout the State. It seems as if every other night there is some system developing and passing through the region.
Certainly, as well, everybody's thoughts and prayers are with the scout troop in Iowa that suffered four deaths, apparently perhaps more, due to the tornado that was in much of that same line of thunderstorms and tornadoes that swept throughout much of the Midwest last night.
I say that to this body as a way of recognizing and stating to people what is taking place as far as damage, and also the support and help we are going to need throughout the Midwest for some of the tornado damage that has occurred. It is extensive.
We are in a very difficult tornado season. It does not appear to be abating. We are getting a lot of flood damage, hail damage, and tornado damage. We will be reporting back to the body on some of the work that is going to need to be done to rebuild, whether it is Kansas State University, Chapman, or other places that have been damaged. We can only hope we can last the rest of the season with no more loss of life and hope there is no more damage to communities. But it has been a very difficult season.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
