Public Statements
Air Force Tanker Contract
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 11, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


AIR FORCE TANKER CONTRACT -- (Senate - June 11, 2008)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I also wish to inform and talk briefly to my colleagues about a major GAO study that is going to be out next week. It is about the bidding for the tankers for the U.S. Air Force.
The GAO will announce the results of its review of the Air Force tanker contract next week. The GAO does not have authority to sustain or overturn the Air Force contract by itself. The GAO only reviews if and when the Air Force followed its own rules. Congress has the final say on this issue because only Congress can consider all of the relevant issues. Still, it is a major report that is going to be coming out on this issue.
I have been very disappointed in the Air Force granting this tanker award to primarily a foreign builder, primarily to Airbus and EADS, which will build the biggest part of this tanker plane. I am disappointed for three major reasons:
One is that I think the merits themselves of the contracting process were not followed by the Air Force.
Second is the heavy subsidization by European governments of Airbus's plane. The base plane has had heavy subsidies of which the U.S. Government, by another arm--the U.S. Trade Representative's Office--is suing the European governments and Airbus and EADS, its parent corporation, for this. We are likely to see that case report out soon.
Third, I think all the contractors should be subjected to the same rules, including things such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which U.S. companies are subject to, and I believe all foreign competitors and bidders should be as well.
First, regarding the GAO, we need to look inside the process the Air Force used to award the contract. At the base of this, what is very puzzling to me is why the Air Force put so much stock in getting a bigger Airbus plane in this bidding process when they had been happy and desirous of the size of the plane Boeing had put forward. If they wanted a bigger plane, they should have put that forward in the bidding process.
Plus, I put this forward: At a time when airlines are looking at the cost of running their airplanes and fuel costs, why is it that the Air Force would look at a bigger plane instead of a smaller plane that is more fuel efficient? That is what all the airlines are looking at. Why would we not look at the same thing? Plus, in looking at the bigger plane, I do not believe a realistic assessment of the military construction needs at the bases throughout the United States and the landing needs throughout the world has been looked at because you are going to have to increase landing space, you are going to have to increase hangar space for the larger airplane Airbus is putting forward. That is in the GAO report.
On the foreign trade subsidies, the Air Force says it cannot consider foreign subsidies when it looks at the cost of contract proposals. As a result, the GAO will not review that issue either. But the United States is currently suing the European Union for subsidizing the same company to which the Air Force has awarded this new tanker contract. We expect that ruling on this WTO case very soon. We anticipate getting somewhere--if we win this case--a $4.5 billion judgment against Airbus and EADS for this same frame they are now being rewarded by the Air Force for with a $35 billion contract.
So they subsidized the civilian aircraft, militarized it, and put it into the military building field. We sued them on this for an illegal international subsidy. We are giving them a contract here for $35 billion on the same subsidized plane. Only Congress can decide this issue, but I submit this is not the way we want to encourage other governments around the world to operate.
Then a final issue is on foreign corrupt practices. The Air Force considers
each bidder's ability to execute a major contract, but it cannot evaluate the business practices used by each company, and neither can the GAO. But all U.S.-based companies are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. I submit we must require that same sort of performance. If a company is going to bid on a major U.S. military contract, they should be subjected to the same rules. I think this would be something that EADS, the parent corporation of Airbus, would be willing to be subjected to. We should require that they and other foreign companies compete for Defense contracts and hold themselves to the same standards we require of U.S. companies under this Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Again, the Air Force has not considered this piece in their overall analysis.
The bottom line is I think this is a highly flawed contract on the basis of the military not following its own design requests of its smaller plane; second, the United States awarding a contract on a subsidized plane that was illegally subsidized; and third, that these companies are operating under different rules. A foreign company operated under a more favorable set of rules. I think the Congress should look at all of these issues and say this is not the way we want to go on these tankers. We want to build them in the United States. We want these jobs in the United States. We want the workers to be in the United States. We want the military industrial complex to be U.S. based and not foreign based.
As a gentleman said to me some time ago: There are two things we shouldn't be dependent upon another country's government for, and that is for your defense and for your food. Here we are being subject to a foreign government's building of a major piece of our military complex. The tankers are something that extend the ability for us to be able to fly missions. They are critical to our air campaigns. We are going to be dependent upon primarily a foreign producer to be able to build these planes. I think that has untold problems--potential problems--for us down the road and it would be something it seems to me this Congress should take a very aggressive look at and say no, we don't want to go that route. The GAO report will come out next week. It is going to be a key issue in this overall decisionmaking process.
Mr. President, I thank you and my colleagues for the time.
I yield the floor and note the absence of a quorum.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
