Public Statements
Global Climate Change
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 5, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE -- (Senate - June 05, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank the Presiding Officer for that recognition.
I thank the Presiding Officer in this body for the chance to address an important topic. I am glad we are discussing important topics. It is important we get a chance to bring up these topics. I, similar to many people, have spent a lot of time with experts and a lot of time with people in my State talking about climate change issues and how we can address them. I do not know of any topic that I have actually probably met with more scientists on, more individuals about, than the climate change topic. It is enormous, it is important, and it is something we need to talk about and address.
When traveling across Kansas--we have 105 counties in the State, and I have been to 57 of them now within the last 6 months, going to all 105 of them. We talk a lot about clean energy, and I talk about balancing the three Es--the energy, the environment, and the economy. We have to get these three Es balanced. They are like a cardboard piece balanced on a pencil. You can kind of tilt them a little bit, you can move it a little bit, but you cannot tank it one way or another. You have to move these three together.
Most people across Kansas looking at the issue generally agree with that. I want a clean environment. I want a healthy economy. I want energy sources here at home, and I do not want to pay too much for them. Most people are complaining bitterly today, as well they should be, about the high price of energy. It is way too high: $4-a-gallon gasoline that people are having to pay. It is directly out of their pocketbooks. It is directly impacting their economy.
We are a big energy-using State. We have a lot of manufacturing, agriculture. Diesel fuel is very important to us. It is well over $4 a gallon, getting up to $5 a gallon in some places. This is a very high-energy formula, and the last thing people want today is to increase the cost of energy. At the same time, they recognize we need to deal with the environment, and we have to grow this economy. So I wish to talk about this in the sense of those three Es, being able to balance those together. I think we can and we should do that.
I read a paper recently that talked about the different waves of environmentalism. I thought it was quite good, and I think it is one this body should look at. The title of the paper was ``The End of Environmentalism.'' It was written by a couple of very strong environmentalists. They were talking about what needs to take place now. They were talking about the waves of environmentalism. They were saying the first wave of environmentalism, if I can paraphrase them appropriately, was a conservation wave. The second wave was a regulatory wave. The third wave, that we are in right now, is an investment wave. That is the way you move this forward, through investment and through technology and for us to invest heavily in that next wave of technology, to be able the balance these three Es I talked about--energy, the economy, and the environment. That is the real way forward.
This bill does not get us going forward that way. The key for us to be able to do investment is to be able to have a very robust economy and for people to invest in these next-wave technologies, not to load additional costs onto the system. We can look at the cost of what they are today, and then you can look at the projected cost of what this bill would put on the American public and on the energy economy and, at the end of day, still not produce the sorts of results we need to have of strong key reductions in CO2 and, at the same time, maintaining the economy and giving us enough energy to be able to move forward.
I would like to point out--and a number of my colleagues have already done this--what this bill will do on driving up the price of electricity. The Energy Information Administration predicts electric prices will be 64 percent higher in 2030 as a result of the bill, fuel prices 53 cents higher by 2030. Actually, I do not think anybody knows, other than they know it will be higher.
But I think the biggest stat came yesterday, for me, from Western Resources. It is a utility in my hometown of Topeka, KS, that provides electricity through much of the State. They are saying, at a $20-a-ton cost for CO2, that is going to raise their fuel costs. It is going to more than double the cost of their fuel as compared to what they are looking at presently. We are getting the actual statistics. We are going to put that, later, in the Record. But this is going to be a dramatic increase in the price of electricity for people in Topeka, KS, and across my State.
We are a strong coal user, using coal out of the Powder River Basin. I think, as we look forward to the future, the answer is not: No, we are not going to use particular types of energy. It is how you use energy and you reduce your CO2, how you build the next generation of coal-fired plants and reduce the CO2 footprint.
A very innovative project is being put forward in the western part of my State. There is a coal-fired plant, where they take the C02 stream--because we don't know how to do CO2 sequestration on a massive scale yet--they take that C02 stream and run it through algae reactors and have the algae harvest, of sorts, the CO2; and they are building in their biological photosynthesis process and then taking the algae and making biodiesel out of that.
Yes, it is experimental, but it is on a large scale experimental, and it is the sort of thing we ought to be looking to for us to invest in that next wave of environmentalism, being an investment wave, to see if we can make these things work in the interim, where we do not know how we are going to be able to sequester, and we cannot drive up too fast the cost of energy because energy prices are so high right now and people are very sensitive to energy prices, as well they should be. We should be sensitive to their sensitivity of energy prices.
I think the way we move this forward is with innovation and technology and investment rather than loading a lot of cost on a system that, at the end of the day, could well--and in all probability, from some of the projections, will have huge, substantial impacts and, indeed, may well have the adverse impact of driving things overseas.
I think there is a lot in this bill that has unpredictable consequences other than, we know, an increased cost in the United States. That piece we do know about. But what will happen? How will industry react to this? Where will it go? We do know costs will go up for American consumers at a time when we can ill afford to do that; at a time when we would be better off taking those increased costs of investment and putting them into the next wave of technology. That is the route forward. That is the route to stabilize. That is the route to move us and to balance the three ``e''s in this process as we move forward.
I am going to be putting forward different amendments and proposals to do just that; to see if we can put forward ideas, particularly in the agricultural sector, to help with carbon sequestration projects, to help with ethanol and biodiesel and wind and solar power, soybean and algae as an investment, as a way of storing it through a natural process, but not putting on a hard cap and trade that adds costs in the system. I think that is the sort of pioneering spirit--that is the sort of investment type of way--that we need to go forward.
I am pleased that an amendment I am working on with Senators Stabenow and Crapo has the backing of the American Farm Bureau on a more robust effort on CO2 sequestration via agriculture. I think that is a key way we can move forward and have some success.
Finally, I wish to note to my colleagues as well that we are woefully behind on getting judges approved for the circuit court. That was a subject that stalled this body yesterday and I predict to my colleagues that it is going to stall us a lot more if we don't start getting on track to increase the number and get to even a minimal number of circuit court nominees to be approved during the remainder of this Congress. We are at eight for this session of Congress. The low watermark was 15. We are not anywhere near close to getting that. It is a requirement of this body for us to be able to clear judges through who get nominated by the President, and then let's vote up or down one way or the other. Let's consider them and let's get a minimum number. We had an agreement for three by the Memorial Day break. One was approved. There are several highly qualified judges in the system. For us to be able to get our business done, if we are going to get it done, we have to get some of these circuit court judges approved. If we don't, it is going to stall the body and we are going to stall it a lot, until we can get circuit court judges approved in some minimal number.
I know there is a lot of dispute about this. It is a need of this body. We need to do this and if we don't do it, things are going to slow down a lot. They are going to get jammed up a lot and it is going to be early and it is going to be very difficult for us to accomplish any other of our business.
I urge the leadership to come together and let's say: Here is the number we can approve by this date, and let's get that done or there are going to be a lot of things that are going to stop happening in this body until we can get those approved.
I yield the floor.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
