Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 21, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - May 21, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Mr. CASEY, Mr. COLEMAN, Mr. SPECTER, and Mr. INHOFE):
S. 3046. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to create a new conditional approval system for drugs, biological products, and devices that is responsive to the needs of seriously ill patients, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak about a bill I introduced today: the Access, Compassion, Care and Ethics for Seriously-ill Patients Act, ACCESS, Act. I would like to thank the original Senate cosponsors: Senators BOB CASEY, NORM CROLEMAN, ARLEN SPECTER and JAMES INHOFE. I also especially thank Representative DIANNE WATSON who will be introducing the companion bill in the U.S. House of Representatives.
In the current era, certain cancers and other chronic diseases touch the lives of almost every American. If you have had the experience of a family member or friend struggling with terminal illness, you were probably aware of their need and limited timeline to access promising treatments. Unfortunately, the current system often does not work for the benefit of terminally-ill patients--during emotionally-charged times, patients and their families may face regulatory and bureaucratic hurdles if they wish to access investigational treatment options in order to preserve their lives. Many terminally-ill patients exhaust their treatment options and do not qualify for a clinical trial. They also do not physically have months to wait for an individual investigational treatment application to be approved.
In this day and age of scientific breakthroughs, we must embrace these advances and do so with a ``patient-centered'' mindset. Terminally-ill patients often reach a point where the potential benefits of these breakthrough treatments outweigh their inevitable risk of death from their disease.
I introduced the ACCESS Act to offer these patients an ethical option--compassionate access to treatments that show promise earlier in the drug development process. The average time for a treatment to go through the entire FDA approval process is 15 years. As a result, the current system tends to benefit future generations of patients with life-threatening diseases, rather than patients of the present time.
The ACCESS Act offers a new Compassionate Investigational Access approval system for treatments showing efficacy during clinical trials, for use by the seriously-ill patient population. Seriously-ill patients who have exhausted all alternatives and are seeking new treatment options, would be offered access to these treatments with the consent of their physician. This bill also improves upon the existing accelerated approval system, using a patient-centered framework. The ACCESS Act also makes a technical correction that will increase patient access to drugs used off-label to treat life-threatening diseases.
I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting the ACCESS Act that would offer patients, with little hope, a chance at life.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
