Public Statements
Food Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008--Resumed
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 14, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


FOOD, CONSERVATION, AND ENERGY ACT OF 2008--Resumed -- (Senate - May 14, 2008)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak of my support for the conference report on the farm bill. I am delighted to follow my colleague, Senator Roberts, who supports the bill, who has served on the conference committee and has been a longtime worker and writer of farm bills. I think this is probably Senator Roberts' fifth or sixth farm bill. So I am delighted to follow in his wake here and to support the same farm bill.
I wish to commend my colleagues, Senator Harkin and Senator Chambliss, for their leadership on this issue. I am proud to represent an agriculture State, along with Senator Roberts, and I am proud to represent Kansas producers and their interests here in Washington. I am proud to be here representing my dad and brother who are full-time farmers and people who both use the farm bill and swear at it from time to time as well, complaining about different of its provisions that are in the farm bill that hit them in an adverse way.
Still, I think overall this is a good farm bill. I think some of the highlights of the farm bill are the expansion of ethanol and the cellulosic ethanol field. It is an area we are seeing now--with grain prices rising and people being concerned about the competition between food and fuel moving into cellulosic--that makes enormous sense, and I think it is clearly one of the ways of the future we need to go.
The expansion of biobased products that is in the bill, the expansion of the conservation area in the bill, with a keen interest in the environment that continues to grow in the country in its importance and its importance to farmers--I think those are all highlights of the bill.
I think weak aspects of the bill are its treatment, particularly in my State, toward wheat and sorghum producers. I think those are weak aspects of this bill.
So I think, overall, as my colleague from Kansas said, we need to get some certainty of a bill done, and it is way past time for that to take place--way past time. The extensions that have been taking place are an insult to producers who have to have some form of planning on the horizon to be able to move forward. They do not just buy inputs on a whim. They have to have some planning on the horizon for buying fuels, for being able to buy fertilizers and chemicals, and, obviously, with us doing this in May, this spring planting season is over in many places and certainly in the waning weeks in others. We need to get this done.
Much has been said about this farm bill. It has been well over 2 years in the making. I do not believe it is a perfect farm bill. No bill ever is. But I believe it is a bill we need to pass. My producers back home simply want a bill passed. That is what I continue to hear more and more: We just want to see a bill passed. They are tired of the constant wrangling back and forth, and they are not pleased with the commodity title that has been cut. Neither am I. But they would rather have the certainty that this bill represents than continue living under 1- or 2-week extensions.
I would like to focus on reasons why I am supporting this farm bill.
First--and one of the provisions noted by my colleague--the tax package attached to this bill has a lot of provisions my farmers and ranchers should be able to take advantage of. There are several programs and incentives for young and beginning farmers, as well as mandatory funding for rural micro-entrepreneurs.
This is an issue I have been focused on for several years, along with my colleague from North Dakota, Senator Dorgan. We and many others have put forward the New Homestead Act, trying to target the outmigration from rural areas, and to cause and to help investment in rural communities, to help stem this tide of outmigration. While we have not been successful in passing that New Homestead Act yet, I am pleased that many of the initiatives in this farm bill are taken from or mirror those provisions in the New Homestead Act. I think they will help in the outmigration progress that is a big problem in my State, that is a big problem, I know, in the chairman's State, in Iowa, as well.
Another piece of the tax package I am pleased is in this bill is the provisions to help Greensburg, KS, rebuild. My colleague from Kansas noted this is a town that was nearly wiped out. Ninety percent of the town was wiped out. The President has visited there twice. He most recently gave the commencement address at the high school, less than 2 weeks ago.
It is heartening to see the heart of the people in rebuilding. You knew from when you saw Greensburg right after the tornado hit and when you met with the people that this town was coming back, that the will and the spirit of the people were there. They are building it back green. It is really fascinating to see the number of small-scale and large-scale windmills that are in the town, the number of green construction sites and buildings that are going up. They want this town to be green Greensburg, and they are doing it. It is a very interesting thing to see.
I was visiting with the John Deere dealership there, and he was showing me all of the green features they are putting in. This will be the most environmentally sensitive John Deere dealership in the country. You can say: Well, I am not sure if that title means a whole lot, but it is going to be a model for dealerships around the country in the farm equipment business. They are excited about it, and I am excited for them.
This bill contains tax provisions that my colleague from Kansas, Senator Roberts, has worked hard to get passed. They passed this body three times but have never made it into law. With this bill, they will become law and go into practice.
I am also pleased there are several initiatives in this bill to develop the biofuels and biobased products. The agriculture industry is now a food, fiber, and fuels business. For years, this has been the dream of people in agriculture: to expand the base of the industry from food and fiber to food, fiber, and fuels. Well, that has now taken place. That is now here.
You travel across my State, you travel across the chairman's State, and there have been enormous investments in ethanol and the expansion of that industry, and it has been a great industry. I realize recently a lot of people have taken to hitting at ethanol. I would ask them, when they go to the gas pump and they are filling up and they are looking at how high this price is, that they would consider that price would be 25 to 40 cents higher without ethanol. Do they want that?
I would note as well that the price of corn is not the culprit on the rising food prices. It has had an impact, but quite modest for what people are experiencing, and it is keeping down your fuel prices in an ecologically sound way. I think we can expand that ecologically sound fashion with the cellulosic base. So I would hope in the future you would not only have a corn stream going into the ethanol plant but you would have a corn stover or fodder stream going into that same ethanol plant that would build and create ethanol out of both cellulose and out of the grain as well. That can happen with this title here.
I think one of the key provisions is loan guarantees and a new production tax credit of $1.01 per gallon for cellulosic ethanol that will be available through December of 2012.
I think this is a key provision and a very helpful provision in this bill.
We have been able to make numerous everyday household items recently out of agricultural products. Not only do these products reduce our need for petroleum, they also provide a new market for farmers in rural areas to tap into.
For instance, the Kansas Polymer Research Center at Pittsburg State University in Pittsburgh, KS, has been studying, developing, and patenting ways to use various soybean oils to replace petroleum products. The foam rubber in car seats now, they have a patent to be able to make that--and it is being made in some places or soon will be--out of soybean oil rather than out of oil products. They have come up with ways to use soybean oil to create new chairs, materials in carpet, and even green concrete. Now, the color of the concrete is not actually green, but it is using soybean oil providing a new market for our farmers and is up to four times stronger than regular concrete. I am pleased to see this is being supported in the bill.
As I mentioned, I think cellulosic ethanol is one of the key titles of the bill. One of the Nation's first cellulosic ethanol plants is being built in Hugoton, KS. I am pleased it is there. I look forward to the further development of cellulosic ethanol, and this bill helps us get there.
Finally, while it is not specifically legislated through this bill, it is my hope the USDA will hold ``New Uses Expos'' around the country to showcase these bio-based products that we clearly have been targeting the Congress to do and to expand with; that the marketplace can expand with, that this title does, that this bill does, and we need to show those products off in many places around this country and around the world as a further greening of the United States and the use of the agricultural industry in expanding its base. This simply makes sense. Not only is the Federal Government required to procure bio-based products when available and affordable, but these are the types of innovative ideas that we should be pushing our agricultural industry to further develop. We all want our farm economy to move toward a more market-based system, and these new uses provide us with that opportunity.
In the livestock title, I would like to also add that I am pleased to see it is going to allow our livestock producers to produce for a market and not create artificial barriers so the producer cannot get closer to the consumer. There were provisions that were being suggested before that would block our producers, our livestock producers, particularly our beef producers in Kansas, from being able to get closer to the consumer and thus more of the consumer dollar back to the farmer. Those are not in here, and I am very pleased the livestock title does not contain those and has worked with the producers, the livestock producers, to help them out.
These are just a few reasons I am supporting this bill. I think the circumstances have been very difficult, but I believe it is a bill worth supporting. I wish to congratulate the chairman and ranking member, Senator Chambliss, for their leadership on a very tough issue and on a tough farm bill, and it is time to get it passed.
Mr. President, with that, I yield the floor, and I note the absence of a quorum.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
