Public Statements
Hearing of the Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government of the Senate Committee on Appropriations - The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange Commission's Budget Requests and Justification for Fiscal Year 2009
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 7, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government of the Senate Committee on Appropriations - The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange Commission's Budget Requests and Justification for Fiscal Year 2009
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): I appreciate your way and means you're doing this, and I'm going to do that similarly because I've got a lot of questions. I would like to, though, point out two things very quickly, if I could.
And first, welcome, Chairman Lukken; I appreciate you being here. And SEC Chairman Cox I guess is on his way.
We put these in the record last week at the Joint Economic Committee on ending stocks of wheat and rice. And I think it's just important to get some factual basis out there, that we are at, I believe, a 27 year low on ending stocks of wheat. We had a terrible crop last year in the Midwest. You guys don't grow any wheat, but we do, and we didn't grow much last year. And then they did in Australia and a number of different places. And a similar thing on the rice markets that were there.
So you can look at other markets that didn't have as much of a problem, and yet you've seen this huge -- going north in prices. And I want you particularly to address some of that, if you would, because it strikes me that we do have people taking resources and putting them into commodities that are driving up some of the commodities not based on the fundamentals.
There are crop movements that are based on the fundamentals. There are some that are not based on it. And I really hope we can look at that particular issue and the potential manipulation of the market by large hedge funds or index funds of taking money that they would normally put in other places, maybe even put it in commercial real estate, but with the declining value of the dollar shift in the commodity markets and then driving those market prices up above what the fundamentals would support.
And I want to ask you what you anticipate doing to try to address that issue.
Chairman, thanks for the hearing.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Years ago when I was a farm broadcaster I thought I was really smart on these markets so I speculated a little bit, lost my shirt. My dad would not listen to anything I ever said again from that point. He farms and he said, "All right, we're just going to keep it in the bin now; I'm not listening to you anymore." So I know those things move on you. I was long in the wheat futures when the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, if that -- anybody remembers that period, and we locked limit down to the markets for three days and -- never forget it. It was quite an experience for a young man.
You mentioned, though, earlier, Chairman, that your economists track the fundamentals and what the market should be. What should the price of oil be now, according to what your economists are saying?
MR. LUKKEN: Well, we make sure that the markets are reflecting as best they can and they're functioning efficiently and performing. We can't predict what prices may be. It's a function of a free market --
SEN. BROWNBACK: You do a range? Do you do a range of -- people pay on these fundamentals, this supply, this demand. There is a range that this price should in normal circumstances trade in. Do you do any historical view of that?
MR. LUKKEN: We do not.
SEN. BROWNBACK: All right. It's just there's been a number of articles out lately thinking that these markets are being driven heavily --
MR. LUKKEN: We do closely follow what the Department of Energy and U.S. Department of Agriculture, the numbers that they're putting out looking at a holistic approach to make sure that fundamentals are supporting the general prices that are being put out by the markets. And if we see --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, then answer that question. Do the fundamentals support the general prices being put out by this oil market?
MR. LUKKEN: I think based on supply and demand that we're seeing, and a lot of people in the markets agree, that, yes, the fundamentals do support largely what the prices are at today.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So you disagree with what the chairman said that there's as much as $30 in this that's based on speculation in these markets?
MR. LUKKEN: Well, I have not seen that study, so we'd have to look at that, but we have not seen that speculators again are driving or a major factor in setting these prices.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You're familiar -- and I'll enter into the record -- there's a Barron's article that cites that they believe that they are. And I would ask you as well, you have limitations on what one individual can control as far as the number of open positions in a commodity; is that correct?
MR. LUKKEN: That is correct.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Does that same limitation apply to a hedge fund?
MR. LUKKEN: It does.
SEN. BROWNBACK: To an index fund -- to a hedge fund?
MR. LUKKEN: Well, a hedge fund is in our terms somebody who is a speculative trader. An index fund is somebody like Goldman Sachs or AIG, which is a fund that brings in passive long-only investments into our markets. We typically call speculators those that are buying and selling over a short-term horizon. These are long-term investments in which pension funds such as CalPERS or retirement funds and endowment funds come into our markets in a buy-and-hold-type strategy.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And there is no limitation on the amount of open positions they can maintain?
MR. LUKKEN: They receive an exemption from us for those position limits.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Now in one article that I read --
MR. : Only long positions.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Only long positions?
MR. LUKKEN: Only long.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But in one of the articles I read that they were holding -- as much as 40 percent of some of the near-term long positions were in these index funds.
MR. LUKKEN: Well, they normally never get into the spot months. They roll before the spot month occurs, so they, again, are seeking long-term exposure. But in our analysis, and this is something that was discussed quite a bit at the agricultural advisory -- the agricultural forum we held two weeks ago, we've seen evidence where the largest percentage of index fund trading is in live cattle right now, at about 45 percent of the market, and yet live cattle is down 6 percent, 8 percent on the year. So we have not seen high levels of correlation. In fact, Minneapolis wheat contract has no index fund trading --
SEN. BROWNBACK: What about oil?
MR. LUKKEN: We -- unfortunately, because of the way that index funds enter into the oil markets, we're not able to pull out that data separately but it's something we're looking into, trying to drill down to find out how the index funds enter into those markets.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Sure seems like that's one you really ought to be, as you say -- I guess no pun intended -- drilling down into.
MR. LUKKEN: Well, that's something we want to look into further. How we can do it, it's a resource question because many of these index funds do a variety of type of trading. They don't separate the two, and so for us to try to find out that type of data, it would be very resource intensive but something we're interested in finding out.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Why wouldn't you want to limit the number of open positions, open long positions that an index fund could maintain? I mean, it seems to me -- and maybe I'm looking at this too simply -- but that people are parking money in these areas, which is, I guess, fine but you're taking a whole bunch of product off the market then. And you're letting one entity control it, which you would not let an individual do. But an individual runs this fund and so you've got an individual sitting on top of a big hedge fund that's controlling a lot of positions.
MR. LUKKEN: Yes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And I think back to the silver market when somebody was trying to capture the silver market two or three decades ago. And what -- it seems like you could get very much in the same spot, just only now the name's an index fund rather than an individual, but it's still a person that controls it.
MR. LUKKEN: Well, we do -- you know, our markets are risk management markets and so financial institutions who are selling these products to pension funds and others have a risk. They have risk that they're trying to off-lay in the futures markets. And so they are exposed to a long or short position by when they do sell these products.
And so our markets try to help them to offset that risk. And that's why I think there's been some discussion of whether we should call them hedger, such as a producer or grain elevator is a hedger, but they are hedging some type of financial risk. And it's been the position of the commission for 20-plus years to allow them to have that type of an exemption.
But I think this is something that came out in this ag forum and something we're closely looking at to make sure that we're categorizing them correctly.
I would point out that even though they are not subject to these position limits we still see all the positions. We see who they are. The transparency is complete for us. And so we're able -- if we think they have a position that's going to manipulate the markets, we as regulators can see that. They just don't have hard limits as they do maybe with the position limits, but we certainly can see and exercise judgment on whether they're trying to control the marketplace.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Just seems like to me you could see where this could happen, where they could drive the market up just by having this big quantity of open positions on long positions? I mean, that just seems to me on its face something you really -- we ought to be deeply concerned about. And I hope you do look at the amount of positions you let them hold -- long positions on those months.
Mr. Chairman, thank you for being generous with my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes, thank you.
Could you tell us today what the -- of the index funds, what percent of the open long contracts they have? Do you have that number?
MR. LUKKEN: I think it's about 30 percent across the -- 30 percent across the agricultural sector.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. Do you know about it in other sectors as well?
MR. LUKKEN: Again, we only break this out for energies -- or for agricultural products at the moment. And it's -- we're looking into whether we can do that, given resources for energy complex.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. I really want to urge you to do that in the energy complex. But it's 30 percent of the positions across agriculture? Does that vary substantially based on what it is in corn or wheat or beef?
MR. LUKKEN: We do have graphs that we can give to your staff, but it ranges anywhere from about 20 -- or 45 percent in live cattle -- which again, I mentioned was actually in negative territory this year -- down to around 15 percent in other commodities. But they typically are somewhere in the range of 25 to 30 percent in agricultural commodities.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. And what were they several years ago if you'd know -- do you know any of those historic numbers?
MR. LUKKEN: I think when we started tracking this they were about 27 percent -- 27, 28 percent. And so they've grown slightly over the last couple years, but not significantly. I mean, it's not -- we haven't seen a huge uptick in growth since we started tracking this in the agricultural area.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. Do you know -- you've noted that you think the price of corn is having -- is being impacted by ethanol and certainly the ethanol consumption. The ethanol consumption of corn would have an impact on corn prices. I don't know if you've tracked the impact of ethanol on gasoline prices. Have you -- do you track that at all?
MR. LUKKEN: I'm not sure this is something we -- I don't think so.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Just for the record -- and I would put this out -- and I've got a couple of charts and articles, Mr. Chairman, I would like to put in the record so it's a part of it.
SEN. DURBIN: Without objection.
SEN. BROWNBACK: The figure that I've seen is that it reduces the price 15 percent. The gasoline price in the country would be 15 percent higher if it wasn't for ethanol. So I think we've got to look at this thing in an overarching supply and demand situation. While you take corn out of the market to take ethanol out of it, it doesn't just go in a trash can, it goes into the gas tank, and that that there's a supply and demand there that it has a positive impact on.
Plus, I was looking at the prices -- corn is -- in this country we don't eat corn that much directly. We do some, but mostly it's fed to livestock, so it has an indirect impact on the overall food prices in this country. And you can escalate corn prices 40 percent with having minimal -- less than 1 percent impact on overall food prices in the country just because of its indirect impact. Do you chart that number or look at that number?
MR. LUKKEN: Yeah, we look at all sorts of fundamental numbers like that, yes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I hope you can supply that one to us as well.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
Welcome, Chairman Cox. I want to look at the lead-up to the subprime debacle that we've had. And I've gone back -- you know, you can kind of go back after these things are over and you're looking at well how did all this set up and you hope to learn kind of lessons learned from that and projecting into the future.
I went and met with my realtors in Kansas and different bankers and they were going, "Oh yeah, yeah, we knew this was going on; we weren't making any of the loans, but people were out trolling and originating subprime mortgages to people we had never lent to." I even had one banker say to me, "Yes, I originated one of the loans that I would never have made but then put it into the pool for the subprime fund." And I thought, well, at least he admitted it, I guess. But he would never have made it, but it got into then the securitized overall fund.
I'm going to enter into the record, Mr. Chairman, an article in The New York Times Magazine from -- I believe it's April 27th, where in 1996 Thomas Friedman, a New York Times columnist, remarked in "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer" that there were two superpowers in the world, the United States and Moody's Bond Rating Service. And it was sometimes unclear which was more powerful and how -- it goes in through this how these bond -- these rating agencies then were rating these subprime mortgages and rating them with a AAA rating.
And so I'm trying to piece all this together in hindsight. So people are originating these loans that nobody locally would make, because it didn't hit their standards and then once you put them all together it can somehow magically transform into a AAA-rated bond entity that they're citing in this article.
And I go back on it, Chris, and ask, what should we do different to keep that from setting up again? Obviously now we're in a credit crunch and so you're not going to have a lot of money flowing to these things.
But are there things we should be doing to either oversight or rate the bond raters in this or to provide greater oversight on the mortgage-originating entities to make sure at least the data is there, that this is a -- this is worthy or that the investors at least know what's in this or -- and I think there's a whole 'nother field of just bad practices of trying to get people into loans that they shouldn't be into and then catching them in the nets. What's the lesson learned here?
MR. COX: Well, first, yes to both of your questions. These are both areas that Congress and regulators should take a very serious interest in and make big changes in. We are not the front-line regulators for the mortgage industry, but I feel comfortable as chairman of the SEC commenting on this because of the big impact that it has had in securities markets. And focusing on proper oversight of mortgage origination is of vital importance for regulators and for lawmakers.
With respect to credit rating agencies, the Congress has done a very important and wise thing very recently in the Credit Rating Agency Act, giving the SEC brand new authority to regulate and oversee credit rating agencies that presently we are exercising vigorously. Up until a few months ago -- until the end of September last year -- the credit rating agency industry was essentially unregulated. Now that is completely changed.
We are in the midst of a very broad investigation of the three largest credit rating agencies that rated most of the subprime-related securities. We will report publicly our findings from that examination very soon. The findings of that examination will also inform our ongoing rule writing that we expect to complete this year.
We expect to propose very, very soon new rules to govern, for example, conflicts of interest in that industry, to prohibit certain practices, to make sure that there is full disclosure of things like due diligence in preparation of these ratings, that there's full understanding and disclosure of the various methodologies and that there's healthy competition in that industry. None of this existed before. These are big changes and they are very, very necessary.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Finally, would you mind commenting on the secretary's comments about the needed changes that he's talking about because of new business structures. He's saying we need to consolidate several of these agencies and remove -- I think he referred to areas as blind spots -- just your thoughts on that?
MR. COX: Modernization of financial services regulation, which is the general topic that was broached by the Treasury blueprint, is I think very high on everybody's agenda, in the Congress, certainly all of us at the SEC and other regulatory agencies, but also around the world and in international fora such as the Financial Stability Forum in IOSCO.
The reason is that our regulatory structure is old. It's got quite a pedigree, a distinguished one, but the major regulatory agencies go back to the first part of the 20th century. Our agency is going to turn 75 years old in just a few months. This is already the 75th anniversary of the 1933 act. And so, as markets have changed, as the products that Walt Lukken and the CFTC regulate have morphed in such dramatic ways in the 21st century, into competitors for products that the SEC regulates, our system has to take that into account.
It's very hard to do that, I understand, because both of constituencies in the marketplace who have become accustomed to the existing regulatory structure, because of difficulties in Congress relating to different jurisdictions and different committees and because of some very difficult substantive choices that would have to be made about which model to pick and how to integrate it. So it's surpassingly difficult, but I think the topic is the right one to focus on because we have to do a better job of integrating regulatory responsibilities if we're going to keep abreast of what's going on not only in our own country but in interconnected ways around the world.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I thank the chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://appropriations.senate.gov/financialservices.cfm
