Public Statements
MSNBC "Decision 08'" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 6, 2008
Location: Unknown

MSNBC "Decision 08'"
MR. WILLIAMS: Now, let's see if the next elected represented of the people of the great state of Kansas can do the same. Senator Som Bran - Sam Brawnbock has been - let's try that again.
Senator Sam Brownback - I've known you for a long time and I've never blown your name like that - has been nice enough to stand by and wait to talk to us.
Senator, thank you very much for being with us.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, thanks, Brian for blowing my name.
MR. WILLIAMS: Yeah.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I mean, you're the best in the business -
MR. WILLIAMS: Sorry.
SEN. BROWNBACK: - and for you to blow my time, I'M honored. Those b's in there really can roll together.
MR. WILLIAMS: (Laughs.) Well, I try to get it really good when we say goodbye at the end of the interview.
First question: as a kind of emissary - I don't think you'll mind that word - the rightward end of your party, are all the troubles where John McCain is concerned, where that end of the party is concerned; is that gone by the boards as far as you're concerned?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, as far as I'm concerned, you've got a clear choice. I mean, elections aren't done in the abstract of candidate A, candidate B. It's John McCain versus Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton, and when you look at that two, yes, all those concerns have gone by the wayside. And John McCain is, by far, the clear and superior candidate, particularly on issues of judges, which to me is just so central, and to so many people in the country is central, on who appoints the next Supreme Court judges.
MR. WILLIAMS: Democrats are still locked in a primary contest, of course, so we've seen a lot of Reverend Wright out there on this network, on the internet, on other networks, certainly. It's been theorized that the reason Mr. Hagee is not getting thorough an airing is that the Democrats are otherwise busy, but stayed tuned for that.
Is he the albatross around the neck of Senator McCain that Reverend Wright has proven to be with Senator Obama?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Oh, I don't think so. I've known Reverend Hagee. I've worked with him. I've talked with him since the comments that he had made. He regrets them. He's said that. He's said that, you know, here's the context with which it was said. I said this about Catholics. I also said the same thing about Protestants: his own church. I mean, he was just pointing to a time history. I don't think you're going to see near that from Reverend Hagee that you've seen from Reverend Wright.
And, I personally was shocked myself with some of things that Reverend Wright expounded upon at the National Press Club. And I was surprised, particularly at this point of time in the election cycle, that he would be out talking about issues the way he did last week.
MR. WILLIAMS: Senator, prediction? What happens tonight?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it looks like to me Hillary wins Indiana and Obama pulls it out in North Carolina, although maybe not by much. And I think John McCain wins in both places.
MR. WILLIAMS: The latter part, viewers will not with an asterisk.
Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of the great state of Kansas. Senator, you're always kind to take our questions. Thank you very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Brian.

Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/18970417/
