Public Statements
Hearing of the Joint Economic Committee - How Are High Food Prices Impacting American Families?
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 1, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for holding the hearing. I appreciate the panelists that are coming up. I think a, you know, a fair reading of the factual setting in looking at the situation probably produces four major factors that are in play, right now, causing the situation we're seeing. And, clearly at the base of it is price of oil that's so much of a fundamental on so many pieces of our economy and globally.
The value of the dollar is clearly having an impact, I think, on the commodity markets. Production problems we've had in agriculture and various sectors and places around the world. And, I would also add with that, exacerbated by government policies in different places. And in a final, as speculators, parking funds, major hedge funds, index funds driving up further the commodity prices on a near-term basis. And if I think you look at those four, you've got most of the factors that are driving what the problems are today.
What I hope we will do is look sensibly at these and not exacerbate the problem with policies that would hurt further. Clearly oil is behind a lot of it. My family farms. My dad's a farmer. My brother's a farmer. Former secretary of agriculture John Block says the cost of raising a crop has jumped by perhaps 40 percent. That's mostly driven by energy prices. You go to fill the tractor up with diesel and it's the same price everybody else pays for it. Fertilizer isn't energy-based. It's gone up a huge amount in cost.
Value of the dollar, clearly it's helped, I think, our economy, it's helped us on exporting and it's helped us on manufacturing exports. I see that in my state. It's helping us on exporting crops. There's another side of that. You've got a declining value of the dollar. A lot of people put that money, then, into commodities and say it's a protection or a hedge. That drives, then, your commodity prices up then. So, one of the things I would hope we do, Mr. Chairman, is get the Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke back up again.
A lot of us have been pushing to have a cheaper dollar as a way to try to stabilize the financial markets. Yesterday they were sending the signal, "Well maybe we'll stop doing this," and we need to start looking on the other end, which is inflationary factors that you get. And I think it's probably time for us to have a discussion about that. Clearly we've had some production problems in agricultures.
Mr. Chairman, I would enter into the record the world wheat supplies. That's the crop I'm most familiar with, being from Kansas. We've seen a 45 percent decline in ending stocks for wheat from 2000 to the present date. Forty five percent drop in supplies, ending supplies. And that's the market driver factor there. That's what everybody here, that's buying these things, is looking at.
How much do we have out there? Last year at Easter we had a frost and it cut our wheat crop a good 40 percent in Kansas. One frost. Well then, that's reflected in ending stocks. I would also point out though, markets do work. I pulled up the Wall Street Journal wheat futures prices and I wanted to enter this into the record as well.
SEN. SCHUMER: Without objection. Both items will be entered into the record.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In February-March we had over $12 a bushel wheat prices. Now I have to say in sidebar here. When you grow up in Kansas, this is the sort of thing you dream of, that we never get these sort of prices for a commodity. I would point out that, now that we're at the end of April, it's at $8. So, you've knocked $4 off of that because the crop that we're looking at now looks like it's going to be pretty good.
So, I'm sorry, you know, that your bread prices are these -- the amount of wheat in that loaf of bread isn't much. It may be a dime. We'll have some experts in to testify about this. So, I'm afraid it's a lot of other people getting that price. But you're seeing a $4 drop per bushel in three months in wheat prices. The incoming crop is looking a lot better. And that should help the ending stocks, which is what people will track.
We've got those problems. Now they're exacerbated when people aren't allowed to freely export. And I think that's what we're seeing, particularly in rice, where you've got governments limiting the movement of rice. Because I was looking at ending stocks on rice -- and Mr. Chairman, I'd like to enter this into the record as well.
SEN. SCHUMER: Without objection.
SEN. BROWNBACK: While they are lower, these are not the sort of things that will probably drive the rice prices as much as we are. And so, you're probably seeing governments more restricting the movement of rice, causing that on a near-term basics.
Wheat, we've had production problems last year, and those seem to be changing. I would point out, as a government policy, because people are saying, Okay the problem here is ethanol. That's the issue. We've diverted all the wheat acres to ethanol.
Well there isn't a real elasticity much between wheat and corn acres. You've got a different cropping pattern. You need more moisture for corn. And there's some margins that you can shift around but primarily, that's a shift between soybean and corn acreage, that you'll get. So, you had a big corn increase this last year. But it doesn't really take from wheat acres. It's some, but not a huge piece.
And, there's a positive with this. And I would note to you that currently, ethanol gives us about 8 percent of our liquid fuel supplies in America. That puts us number five on a list of countries we get oil from. I would note to you as well, there have been a couple of studies on this.
And Merrill Lynch analysts say -- and Merrill Lynch analysts estimates that oil and gasoline prices would be about 15 percent higher, or $4.14 a gallon at today's prices if biofuel producers weren't increasing their output. So, okay, we've shifted some commodities from this place to that, but then it also has a reducing impact on gasoline. Gasoline prices are way too high, but they would be higher without biofuels in the system. And, I would note that.
And, finally, Mr. Chairman, and I think really this deserves some more looking at, is the impact of the hedge funds and indexing funds on commodity prices. And my sense is, probably, that with the declining dollar, that a number of these funds said, "Where do we park our money?" And then, they decided to park it in commodities a way of holding it.
And I want to ask to enter into the record a Barron's cover story March 31, 2008 looking at this phenomena. Not saying it's wholly there at all, but it's saying that it's clearly has some near-term impact on prices that this has driven. And I think this is actually something worth looking at of. Do we allow hedge funds and index funds to enter into the commodity markets to a degree over and above what we allow the individual do? Because we limit individuals position in these markets, where we don't in these funds. And I think this is something, as a factor that we really ought to be looking at.
So, those issues, Mr. Chairman, I guess it'd be fun to blame somebody in here for all this, but I think you really need to look at these particular factors, and then, just please, let's not exacerbate with government policies, whether problems in the Farm Bill, or limiting of exports or the flow of commodities that's going to hurt and cause this to be worse. I appreciate you holding the hearing but I hope we can look at it factually. Thank you Mr. Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://jec.senate.gov/
