Public Statements
Hearing of the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee - The Consumer Product Safety Commission
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 30, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee - The Consumer Product Safety Commission
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
The hearing we did last year of the Consumer Product Safety Commission was an excellent hearing, I thought it was a groundbreaking hearing, and I'm pleased to see progress is being made.
I'd like to thank acting Chairman Nord and Commissioner Moore. I'd like to thank you, begin by saying myself, commending you for the steps you've taken to improve the agency and the work and the safety of imported consumer products since our September 12th, 2007 hearing. I understand that you used the additional resources we appropriated to improve your import surveillance activities, modernize your product testing and to hire additional product safety inspectors. It is unfortunate that such advances were not made until after all the toy recalls, bad press and congressional hearings.
We discussed the issue of imported products from China at great length in our earlier hearing, so I'll be briefer on that today. But clearly, China is our biggest regulatory challenge, since 70 percent of all defective products are coming from that country -- 70 percent.
We must continue to focus our efforts on stopping dangerous and even lethal products from reaching American consumers. This is where the problem is and this is where our focus, I believe, should be: hoeing where the weeds are.
I'm glad to hear of the continuing dialogue with the Chinese and the enhanced ways your agency is communicating with them, but I'm concerned that dialogue just isn't enough. The MOU that you've signed with the Chinese must be honored and you must verify -- verify that the Chinese are holding up their end of the bargain.
I'd recommend that you hold annual rather than biannual product safety summits with the Chinese. I still believe that we cannot merely trust China to do what is right. Certainly regarding product safety, they've given us every reason not to trust them. In fact, just yesterday an FDA official testified before a House subcommittee that FDA's working hypothesis is that the contamination of heparin was intentional.
Although FDA has not proven this yet, it speaks volumes about the grave concerns we must have about all products coming from China. I hope that during today's hearings you'll be able to identify specific ways you intend to hold China accountable. Again, this is where the problem is, and this is where our focus should be.
And it's a totalitarian system; it doesn't have a free press that operates there. It has graft and corruption that operate within the political system. I think you just look at the exterior factors and you would expect a series of problems to probably arise.
So Ms. Nord and Mr. Moore, thank you for your commitment to protecting America's consumers. I look forward to hearing your detailed testimony on what we can do to particularly address the issue of the products that we're seeing coming in from China.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Are you conducting any surprise inspections in China now?
MS. NORD: We don't do inspections, per se, in China as, for example, the FDA does. What we are doing is we have all our recall notices go directly to our counterpart agency in China, and they investigate them. We are now getting very detailed reports back from them as to their findings. We have monthly video conferences where we go over each of the recalls and what their investigations found.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What about doing surprise inspections in China? You were talking about putting personnel or somebody at the embassy there, what about doing surprise inspections?
MS. NORD: It is -- well, it is clear, actually, that under our statute, we only regulate American product sellers, so we would not have the legal authority to go into a Chinese-owned plant with an American inspector and do an inspection. What would happen is that -- or what will happen is that the Chinese government does that, and if we have people in China, then they could certainly participate in those inspections, but they would have to be done by the Chinese since they would be inspecting Chinese factories.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Therein lies the rub, if you will, because we're getting so much from China and we're having so many problems, and their system is so different from ours. That's the problem. And if you could kind of say well, okay, China has a free press, and so they're going to kind of track these issues or keep some -- get some light on it. Well, they don't.
If they had an open political system where you'd have different political parties batting this around, well, okay, maybe that would be something that would produce it. They don't. It's well known, the corruption and graft that's taking place at local levels in China. Even the national level of the Chinese government is trying to get some competitiveness at a local level because of primarily dealing with graft and corruption that they're trying to get out of the system but is there.
So I don't know how we depend upon the Chinese government to assure that we get a decent product here without us being right there and in on surprise inspections.
MS. NORD: We can't look to the Chinese government to enforce American safety laws, and we don't intend to. But what we can do is put in place a number of different kinds of processes that will push towards an ultimate result of safer products, and that's what we were trying to do with the agreements that we signed last September that created a framework for this ongoing activity. That's what we're trying to do with our monthly meetings with the Chinese. That's what we are trying to do with the training sessions that go on in China.
But having said all that, it is very, very important that we also understand that we've got to be looking at layers of protection. We can do all that with China, but we've got to make sure that we were vigilant at the ports, that we've got police on the beat -- that is to say that we recall products when we find violations -- and that we put penalties in place.
But one of the things that I think is important for you to know, Senator, is that first of all, the number of recalls is going -- of toy recalls and lead paint violations is going way down, and also it is important and I think very good news that we have not yet seen any products manufactured after the point of our agreements that have been recalled for lead paint violations. So that's --
SEN. BROWNBACK: But if I could, before my time gets up, what have the total number of consumer products recalls on imported items from China done since September of 2007? Not just the lead-based products, but -- have these increased or decreased?
MS. NORD: (Off mike consultation.) Okay. I'm sorry, I didn't have that statistic off my -- the number of recalls that we have done in fiscal year '08 is going up, but those are products that were already in the marketplace. They're not new products that have entered the marketplace since September, so there are things from 2005, 2006, that kind of thing.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah, just to conclude on this, when you catch it there, the horse is already out of the barn. I mean, it's in the consumer marketplace here and that's where we catch it, when we ought to be backing up a lot earlier on this. And I just don't have confidence that we're in -- with whatever regard of cooperation we get from the Chinese government -- that they're going to catch this. And the point at which we catch it, it's already entered the consumer marketplace.
MS. NORD: That's why the layers of protection is such an important concept. I mean obviously, consumers are better off if the product's manufactured safely in the first place, and that's what we have to be shooting for.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://appropriations.senate.gov/financialservices.cfm
