Public Statements
Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2007
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 24, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


GENETIC INFORMATION NONDISCRIMINATION ACT OF 2007 -- (Senate - April 24, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague, Senator Enzi, for his work, the chairman for his work, and I particularly recognize Senator Snowe. I know Dr. Francis Collins, head of our Human Genome Project, and the key thing he has talked about from the outset of it was the need for this type of legislation which Senator Snowe has championed for a long time. I am delighted to see it passing here. There is strong support for it.
I want to particularly point out a provision in the bill that was added on the House side by Representative BART STUPAK from Michigan, that would prevent the use of genetic information from unborn children and children in the process of being adopted. We can see a situation where somebody would apply for work, a lady who is pregnant, the child has Down syndrome, and that information being used against her in being able to get employment. That is built within the bill and I am delighted that is in there so we do not have that type of discrimination taking place as well.
I have spoken previously about the very real pressure that exists in these types of situations, where people get a Down syndrome designation and then the pressure in the system to abort the child. Senator Kennedy and I have a bill that I am hopeful we will be able to get passed on nondiscrimination taking place in these situations, getting more information out to the parents and an adoption registry of people who want to adopt Down syndrome children, who want to adopt children who have these difficulties.
At the same time, I think we need to know that today there is a real tragedy on a massive scale going on in the country of genetic discrimination. That is happening today in this country. We know that, today, 90 percent of the women who are pregnant with Down syndrome children, once they get that genetic designation of the child, the child will not be allowed to live--90 percent is the level that is taking place there, of that genetic information and its use. The numbers are similarly high for prenatally diagnosed children with spina bifida, cystic fibrosis, and dwarfism. It has all been well documented by the American Journal of Medical Genetics and the journal Prenatal Diagnosis. So we have an increase in genetic testing, up to 120 different tests, and then a number of these children in this situation not being allowed to live.
It is a bit personal with one of my staff members. Stacey Cervenka is here with me, who was born blind and is concerned that in the future our children are going to be prenatally diagnosed as being blind, deaf, and not allowed to get here. I do not think that is the kind of country we want to be in.
That is why I am so happy this bill is passing, so we do not have genetic discrimination of people. I think it should extend to the full range of a lifetime of genetic discrimination. That is why I have offered a bill with Senator Kennedy to partially address this issue, the Prenatally and Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act, to ensure families get the necessary information in these situations and also the connection to the help and support services they need. It also provides for national registry for those willing to adopt children with these conditions.
We all should be concerned when one's genetic information is being used for discrimination. We know we are better than that as a society. The real question is whether every life at every stage and every place has that value and is worth protecting and fighting for. I think it is. I think we as a body believe that. One's genetic composition does not determine one's value. Those with disabilities have the same inherent human dignity and value as everyone else. Genetic discrimination against anyone is unacceptable, particularly those who are next generation, our children.
I might add, as a close, that as reported this week, the Governor of Alaska, Governor Sarah Palin, gave birth to a child named Trig, who happens to be a Down syndrome child. I wish to share what she said on this occasion:
Trig is beautiful and already adored by us. We knew through early testings he would face special challenges, and we feel privileged that God would entrust us with this gift and allow us unspeakable joy as he entered our lives. We have faith that every baby is created for good purpose and has potential to make this world a better place. We are truly blessed.
What a great thought for all of us.
I yield the floor.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
