Public Statements
Nomination of Kathleen Stephens as U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of South Korea
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 23, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


NOMINATION OF KATHLEEN STEPHENS AS U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE REPUBLIC OF SOUTH KOREA -- (Senate - April 23, 2008)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader for recognizing me and allowing me to speak this evening before we close down.
I want to put before the body a situation that is happening right now in North Korea. I put a hold on our nominee to be the Ambassador to the Republic of South Korea. I want to explain why I am doing that. I want to show why I am doing that. Then I want to raise some issues on human rights and why we need to be a lot more involved and pushy about what is taking place in North Korea.
I was encouraged last week in a meeting I had with the new President of South Korea, Mr. Lee Myung Bak, at a meeting hosted by the Senate leadership. I was encouraged to hear his interest in dealing with the human rights situation--or lack thereof, of human rights--in North Korea. He is going to be more willing to work with us than the last Korean administration in South Korea.
I was pleased to see his willingness to work with us and support us on the nuclear negotiations in which the Korean Peninsula would be a nuclear-free zone--although that is not the case. We have seen what North Korea has done in their willingness to proliferate. I told the President of South Korea--and he agreed--we must see real and verified results with the North Korean regime, not only on nuclear activities but also on the issue of human rights.
We are not seeing either. We are not seeing real and verifiable results on what they are doing in the nuclear development category. We are certainly not seeing it in the human rights category.
Without transparent improvement in human rights, and I believe the same on the nuclear issues as well, I told him the establishment of diplomatic relations would condone crimes against humanity on a massive scale. Without transparent distribution of humanitarian aid from the United States and outside world into North Korea, this aid would be used as a weapon of oppression and diverted from those in greatest need to those elites who get the most under the system.
These statements I made to him were well received, which is a change from the prior administration which sought a different policy toward North Korea, one they wanted to engage but certainly not address on these human rights and nuclear issues.
I met with our nominee to be the Ambassador to South Korea. I met with her twice. In two meetings with Ms. Stephens, the nominee, I gave her every opportunity to explain to me why she should be our next Ambassador to the Republic of South Korea and how she would address the human rights issues. She is certainly a qualified individual, spending her adult career in the State Department and international work. She is a highly qualified individual. Yet on how we are going to and if we are going to positively address the human rights concern and address it on a high scale--to where it is one of the top issues we are dealing with, not just one that, well, once we deal with these others we will talk about human rights or we might bring it up--I did not get satisfactory answers from her, nor did I get those even from Secretary Rice, for whom I have great admiration, a week later, after my meetings with the nominee.
I asked her in the Senate Foreign Operations Appropriations hearing what specific ``asks'' we are making of North Korea on the human rights agenda. She didn't say that we had particular items. Now maybe there are ones she is willing to identify. One I asked her specifically about is why don't we ask the North Koreans to shut down the gulags, the political prisoner camps which I am going to showcase here. Why don't we ask them to shut those down as an ``ask,'' putting those on the table? I didn't get a response.
We are now approaching 4 years since the passage of the North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004. I was willing to give the State Department and other agencies time to implement the act. I was willing to give those implementing the law, which included Ms. Stephens, our nominee to be the Ambassador to South Korea, the benefit of the doubt. I was willing to wait to see if the Department of State negotiators would be willing to confront the North Koreans regarding their human rights abuses. I wanted to see how much priority they would give to addressing the trafficking along the border between North Korea and China.
Today I met with a number of refugees from North Korea. If a woman crosses over that border looking for food in China, 100 percent are trafficked--they are caught and sold. That is taking place on that border today. I wanted to see if we would give priority to the trafficking issues or gain accession to the gulags that dot the country or ensure the food aid would be strictly monitored. I am still waiting, as are many other individuals and groups working on North Korean issues, but my wait is not significant, nor is their wait. The 23 million North Koreans who are waiting are the ones who are dying. Many are desperately waiting in the gulags. I would like to show you these pictures today.
These pictures are from Google Earth. Google has made a witness of all of us, to no longer deny that these things exist and say they are classified photographs. You can go on Google Earth and look these up. The existence of these camps and the specific details have been confirmed by North Korean defectors living in South Korea.
Some are guards, others former prisoners in some camps that they were able to get out of. I would like to thank, in particular, Rev. Chun Ki Won for his assistance.
We now have no excuse for ignoring the truth of what many believe is a holocaust that is occurring in North Korea today. The U.S. Committee for Human Rights in North Korea believes that 400,000 have already died in these camps alone--400,000 have died in these camps alone according to the U.S. Committee for Human Rights in North Korea.
If you listen to the defectors' stories, as I have done on several occasions, the scale and depravity of the crimes that are committed in these camps rival those done by Pol Pot in Cambodia and even by the Nazis.
Too many of us refuse to confront this issue. Maybe we are afraid that confronting the atrocities of these camps would also require us to confront its urgent moral imperatives.
The first photo here is of Camp 22 where chemical experiments are alleged to have occurred. Camp 22 is in this picture. It is a huge concentration camp. It is over 400 square miles in size, a concentration camp.
No known prisoner has ever left the camp. The information we have has been from guards who have defected. No prisoner has been known to get out of this camp alive. The guards we contacted were able to identify its electric fences and moats. They were able to point out the huts where its prisoners live, the coal mines where men are worked to death, and the forests and fields where the dead are not buried, they are discarded.
Former guard Kwon Hyuk claims the fences around Camp 22 are about 2.5 meters high and electrified with 3,300 volts of electricity. He also says the camp is surrounded by land mines and spiked moats.
If you look carefully at the center of this next picture, of the courtyard at the middle of the guard station, you will see what appears to be a group of people coming in. This is the entry gate--a group of people going in to whatever fate we do not know.
Outside the gates, life for North Koreans, such as it is, goes on. This year is said to be an especially difficult one in this part of North Korea, but the farmers outside the gate are still luckier than those inside.
Farmers cannot pretend not to know what goes on beyond the fence. One recent defector who lived just outside Camp 22 told his American English teacher how the guards from his camp would come to his house and search for scarce food and alcohol, and how drunken guards would confess remorsefully to the cruelties they inflicted on the prisoners.
The teacher published his recollection in the Washington Post last year, which I ask unanimous consent be made part of the Record and printed at the end of my statement.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
(See exhibit 1).
Mr. BROWNBACK. This next picture is the Chungbong Coal Mine in Camp 22. I described Camp 22. It is over 400 square miles. Its main features are coal and forest mining. Ahn Myong Chol, a former guard and driver at Camp 22, described the working conditions in this mine. Prisoners work two shifts a day on meager rations. They are organized into five-person teams and are encouraged to earn rewards and supplement the starvation rations by informing on each other. Prisoners are beaten frequently, sometimes to death, and often for no reason at all. This is according to a former guard in Camp 22.
They work in cramped, narrow shafts. Accidents and cave-ins kill many prisoners. Those who are injured are sent to a hospital without qualified staff or medical supplies, and they are essentially left to die. Others die of exhaustion as they try to meet daily quotas. Those who fail to meet the quotas are not fed.
Now, there are dozens of these camps all over North Korea. I want to show you some locations of the various gulags that are known throughout North Korea. We now have corroborated reports from multiple sources of the kind of depravity that continues in these camps to this day.
Why not, in our Six Party negotiations and talks that we have going on today, that one of our primary ``asks,'' along with dealing with the nuclear issue, be to shut the gulag system down? It is a very clear, a very specific ``ask.'' We have evidence from Google Earth. I believe we have much better satellite photographs that go into this in even more detail.
There are hundreds of North Koreans who have fled now into South Korea, a few into this country, with evidence, who are speaking about this issue. So they know and can corroborate what we are seeing in the pictures.
Why not confront the North Koreas with it on an equal par with the nuclear negotiations? I think to do this advances our cause overall.
In the Soviet Union, when we were dealing with them on nuclear disarmament, one of the key things we asked for is, well, with the human rights agenda, put it up right there beside it. People are saying: Do not do that. You are going to upset the balance. But when you talk with the people who were in the prison system, and you hear their statements about it, they were saying that what gave them heart was they knew someone on the outside world was paying attention to them.
It also delegitimized the Soviet Union because as long as you are going at the nuclear issue, the Government in North Korea says, ``They are just trying to disarm us.'' And ``They have got it, this is something that we as North Koreans deserve.''
But when you say: What about the Chungbong Coal Mine and the people dying there every day; what about Camp 22 where you are having people going into this all of the time but nobody ever comes out; if you raise that, it delegitimizes the regime, it makes them confront their own people about what they are doing. And that is a more powerful tool. Why would we not raise that? This was my question to our nominee. Why are we not raising that?
It seems as if the desire to get something on the nuclear side is so much greater than that on the human rights side, that this one is set: OK, when we get the nuclear one dealt with, we will deal with this. But in the meantime, people are dying, a lot of them. And this goes on. It continues at a time when we would look at those things and say: My goodness, this is 2008. This does not go on in the world today. You have pictures. You can go on Google Earth and see it.
I think we have to raise this issue. I think it is important in our negotiations for us to raise this issue. We have expressed our horror at what has taken place in various places around the world and said, ``never again.'' We have said it about concentration camps. Yet it is going on here and we have a negotiation and we are not even making it a major issue. So I believe we need to step up and we need to push this issue.
The final point I would like to make about this is that the Chinese are complicit in this as well. They are the ones who could put the most pressure of any country in the world outside of Korea on the North Koreans. They are the ones who have the economic relations. They are the ones who are the protector of North Korea. When people escape out of one of these camps or try looking for food in China, they are caught by the Chinese and repatriated to an uncertain fate, likely death, often imprisonment, and they are sent back against the Chinese requirements of what they had signed in the U.N. Human Rights Commission Agreement in 1951, an agreement that China is a signatory of that says they will not send people back into a death camp situation or where their health would be challenged or would be likely harmed or that they would be killed.
Clearly, that is taking place over there, and China continues to do it. So on top of what they are doing in Tibet and what they are doing in North Korea, on top of what they are doing in Sudan, enabling the Sudanese Government to continue this in Darfur and buying oil out of Sudan and backing reform in the United Nations, on top of that and pursuing resources out of the Congo, regardless of what sorts of abuses are taking place by the groups or the militias stealing the resources to take them out through China, regardless of what is taking place in Burma where the Chinese are blocking and supporting the Burmese and then they are pushing people out, the Korean people are being pushed into Thailand, but they are not citizens of Thailand so they are being trafficked from that point. The Chinese are the ones who are complicit in all of this. They are the great enabler of human rights abuses around the world today, in their own country and externally. They bear a huge responsibility for what is taking place today in North Korea.
I hope this continues to be expressed and brought up--I plan to do so--prior to the Olympics this year, which should be a celebration of great athleticism. I believe it will be. But as China seeks to exploit this as a presentation of their coming forward in the world, I hope the world notices what else they are doing. They are hosting a grand Olympics, but they are hosting a greater catastrophe of human rights abuses in their country and around the world. Whether it is Tibetans or people in the house church movement, Falun Gong members being arrested, North Koreans, Burmese, Sudanese, Congolese, they lay at the doorstep of the Chinese.
I think we need to confront this. I am hopeful the administration will address this. I know the President personally cares very deeply about human rights abuses in North Korea. He has met individually with people who have come out of North Korea. I talked directly with him about it. I don't think we are seeing the administration meet the President's greatest desires on addressing this issue. That is why I put a hold on Kathleen Stephens being Ambassador to the Republic of Korea until we begin to address these issues.
I yield the floor.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
