Public Statements
Brownback Testifies Before House Committee on Importance of Funding for Abstinence Education
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 23, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Testifies Before House Committee on Importance of Funding for Abstinence Education
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today testified before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform about the need for continued funding of abstinence education.
"Studies have shown that abstinence education is effective in decreasing the number of teen pregnancy and rates of sexually transmitted diseases among youth," said Brownback. "Clearly our current approach to sex education is not working; STD rates among teens are rising, and it is irresponsible of us to silence the abstinence message. We need more funding for abstinence programs, not less. Cutting funding to such valuable programs will only have negative results as we see teens, and even pre-teens, engage in risky sexual behavior."
Each year, 2.6 million teens become sexually active; in 2005, approximately one in seven youth had sex for the first time at age 14, or even younger. Approximately one in 13 adolescent girls in the United States becomes pregnant annually. The percentage of teen births outside of marriage has increased from 46 percent in 1980 to 80 percent in 2002. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one in 4 teenage girls in America has a sexually transmitted disease.
Brownback continued, "Parents want the best for their children, and have high expectations and goals for their futures. It is ironic that most of my colleagues agree that abstinence education is preferred but are not willing to fund such programs at the same level as 'comprehensive' sex education, the funding of which is weaved throughout our federal budget. We, as legislators, should not undermine parents' ambition to raise responsible, healthy children."
A 2007 Zogby survey found that fifty-nine percent of parents believe more funding should go to abstinence education. The survey also found that seventy-eight percent of parents think sex education classes in public schools should place more emphasis on promoting abstinence than on condom and other contraceptive use and ninety-three percent of parents think sex education should include a discussion about the limitations of condoms in preventing specific STDs. Over eighty percent support the message of abstinence only education, to abstain from sexual activity until they are in a committed adult relationship nearing marriage.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=296602
