Public Statements
Brownback Applauds South Korea for Fully Re-Opening Markets to U.S. Beef
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 18, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Applauds South Korea for Fully Re-Opening Markets to U.S. Beef
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded South Korea for its decision to fully re-open its markets to U.S. beef.
"I am delighted that the South Korean government has decided to lift their ban on US beef and this is great news for cattlemen across America, especially for Kansas cattlemen," said Brownback. "This is the culmination of over four years of intense work. I commend President Bush and Ambassador Schwab for their efforts and I hope they remain diligent in opening markets worldwide to Kansas agricultural products. Our farmers and ranchers are the best at what they do and can compete with anyone if given the chance. Kansas farmers export a third of all their products globally and I want that number to grow. This agreement will help reduce trade barriers that have kept money out of our economy for too long."
Brownback yesterday met with South Korean President Lee Myung Bak to discuss the issue, and earlier this year met with U.S. Trade Ambassador Susan Schwab to discuss international beef trade. In 2004, Brownback traveled to Asia to meet with leaders to discuss reopening beef markets and later that year hosted Asian leaders in Kansas for a Beef Safety Tour.
Brownback continued, "This agreement removes a major hurdle in the path of ratifying the free trade agreement with South Korea. It is not only good for our farmers and ranchers, but it is good for the American consumers, as well."
In 2003, the South Korean market closed to U.S. beef imports, after a Canadian-born cow found in Washington State tested positive for BSE. South Korea partially re-opened its markets in 2006, and their markets are currently open to American boneless beef from cattle 30 months old or younger. South Korea imported more than 199,000 tons of U.S. beef in 2003, valued at $880 million, making South Korea America's third largest beef export market. CattleFax estimates that the Korean market is worth over $1 billion dollars annually to the United States, and $192.5 million to the state of Kansas. Once the Korean market is fully open, the cost of Kansas cattle is estimated to increase $25 per head.
Senator Brownback sits on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Rural Development.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=296731
