Public Statements
Judicial Nominations
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 10, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS -- (Senate - April 10, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I join my colleagues in saying that this is the time for us to move. I am delighted to see the majority leader and the majority whip here on the floor as well, to talk, because there is a practical effect of what is soon to take place around here if we don't start moving judges soon, and specifically circuit court judges. This is something I don't want to see taking place, but I think you heard from the Senator from Pennsylvania--a respected, open-minded Member of this body--that if we do not start approving some circuit court judges in some significant numbers--I think my colleague from Arizona mentioned hitting some of the historic averages, or at least getting close to it--I think you are going to see people start to jam the body down and say that unless we start approving some circuit court judges, business is not going to happen around here.
I think people will understand why. Circuit court judges are positions that are significant, that are long lasting, that are needed, and yet nominees are not being approved. Why are they not being approved? We have qualified nominees who are in the queue who have been waiting for a long period of time. I have one to talk about here, Judge Robert Conrad in the Fourth Circuit. The seat to which he has been nominated is a judicial emergency. We have a third of the positions on the Fourth Circuit that are open. It is a judicial emergency. His nomination is supported by both home State Senators. They want this position. In North Carolina, Senator Burr and Senator Dole both support this nominee. He is highly qualified. The ABA says this is a highly qualified nominee, meeting their highest standard of ``unanimously well-qualified.'' This is an individual who has been previously approved by this body for a Federal judgeship, and has now been nominated to move from the Federal district court bench to the circuit court bench. It is a judicial emergency. Yet Judge Conrad's nomination languishes and has languished for over 250 days.
I think clearly what we are setting up right now is for not much to happen in the Senate. I think what you are going to see starting to take place--and we are serving notice here today, if we do not start moving these nominees at some regular pace--qualified people who fit the criteria, who should move on through, business is going to slow down in this body. It may come to a complete standstill if we do not start getting some judges.
We should not go that route. I urge my colleagues, I urge the chairman of the committee and the ranking member, to sit down and say: OK, what can we work out on circuit court judges? District court judges? What can we get worked out so the business of the Senate can move forward? Without that, things are going to slow down here. Things are not going to get done. It is going to be because we are not getting anywhere close to reasonable numbers of circuit court judges approved. I want to say that clearly. That is where this is all headed.
The majority party can choose to go that route. That is what is going to end up taking place. It is going to be about judges. We are going to have a big debate then across the country on that. Meanwhile, the whole Nation wants us to get work done and we are not getting it done because judges are not being approved.
I hope the majority party would sit up and say we are going to approve this many, that many, we are going to get these moving through in some reasonable fashion so the body can do its job. Judge Conrad is one of those who deserves a hearing. If there are challenges to him on the basis that we don't think he is qualified, we don't like what he said here or there--fine, hold a hearing so we can get those out in the air. Clearly, if we do not start moving some judges in reasonable numbers, you are going to start seeing this body start to not move much through, as we begin to protest not getting judges approved.
We should not go that route. I hope we do not have to.
I yield the floor.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
