Public Statements
Second Chance Act
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 10, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


SECOND CHANCE ACT -- (Senate - April 10, 2008)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to acknowledge the Presidential signing of a bill that was two and a half Congresses in the making, the Second Chance Act. This bill, which focuses on reinventing the way in which we create prison reentry programs, will have a dramatic and positive effect on hundreds of thousands of lives--lives that will be changed for the better.
I am equally pleased that the President signaled his support for this much needed legislation by hosting a bill signing ceremony this morning at the White House. I was delighted to join my colleagues in both the Senate and the House of Representatives, as well as the organizations that helped make this bill a reality--it was truly a magnificent event.
Over 650,000 individuals will be released from our Federal and State prisons, and 9 million are released from jails. Approximately two out of every three individuals released from prison or jail commit more crimes and will be rearrested within 3 years of release, placing increasing financial burdens on our States and decreasing public safety.
Recidivism is costly, in both personal and financial terms. Consider: The American taxpayers spent approximately $9 billion per year on corrections in 1982 and in 2002--nearly two decades later--taxpayers spent $60 billion. This current criminal justice system is not working, does not make our cities and States safer and is unacceptable and must be addressed.
The Second Chance Act will address these major issues in the area of corrections. By providing grant money to States through the Department of Justice and the Department of Labor, the bill encourages the creation of innovative programs geared toward improving public safety, decreasing the financial burden on States and successfully reintegrating ex-offenders into society.
Additionally, this bill authorizes two grant programs designed to aid nonprofit organizations--faith-based and community-based organizations--that provide programs to those incarcerated. As you may know, faith-based programs are very successful in reintegrating offenders into society. A 2002 study found that faith-based prison programs result in a significantly lower rate of re-arrest than vocation-based programs--16 percent versus 36 percent.
I and my Senate and House colleagues have worked extremely hard over the past 4 years on this measure that encompasses Federal, State, local, and nonprofit programs. I would especially like to thank Ranking Member Specter, Chairman Biden, and Chairman Leahy. Our partnership over the last years has been a true testament to bipartisanship. We were able to put aside our policy differences for the good of those in need and come together on a bill that will provide hope and aid to those incarcerated. The bill will also provide assistance to those most vulnerable and often overlooked--the children of incarcerated parents. Nearly half of all prisoners have children, and it is estimated that one in five of those children will follow their parent into the prison system--this broken system must change, and the Second Chance Act will facilitate such needed change.
Indeed this bill is much needed and will serve as a catalyst for systemic change. This bill is supported by the hard work and determination of over 200 organizations, such as Prison Fellowship Ministries, Open Society, the Council of State Governments, and the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, as well as many State and local government correction officials and law enforcement officials--a truly bipartisan/bicameral coalition of partners committed to changing the criminal justice system.
I commend the tremendous--truly tremendous work these organizations completed on behalf of this bill. Without their partnership, the bill may not have become reality. Through their perseverance and help, much needed reentry resources will be funded to help give those in our prison system a second chance at life. Through substance abuse programs, education, and job training programs, those incarcerated will be given a second chance to be productive citizens. Perhaps most importantly, prisoners will be given a second chance to reconnect with their families through family-based treatment and mentoring programs.
This is a monumental bill that will change the lives of countless individuals and will keep our communities safer by reducing recidivism rates drastically--the goal, 50 percent in 5 years--and it can be done.
Kansas has proven it. In slightly less time than it took us to enact this bill--3 years--Kansas cut their monthly revocation rate by 44 percent ..... 44 percent. I understand that they can also track the recidivism rate for ex-offenders in the 12-18 months of a parolee's release. Even more striking, the State has been able to reduce, by 41 percent, the number of criminal convictions over the last 3 years--proving that reentry programs work.
This is amazing, and I know that with the aid of the Second Chance Act other States are on their way to these successes as well.
I would like to also take a moment to recognize State Representative Pat Colloton from Kansas who was also here today to share in this celebration and is one of the leaders in Kansas on this issue.
Mr. President, this has been a great day for the supporters of the Second Chance Act. I commend them for their efforts, and I ask unanimous consent that the full list of organizations that support this program be printed in the RECORD for their outstanding work on this issue.
There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as follows:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
