Public Statements
U.S. Congress Joint Economic Committee Hearing - The Economic Outlook
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 2, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Appreciate that.
Welcome, Chairman Bernanke. I look forward to the question and answer time period. I think I, along with everybody else, was stunned with the action that took place, although very appreciative of it. But I'd like to know a lot more details about what took place, the thinking process, the decision-making process, and then the likelihood for this leading to future actions. I guess that's really the thing that I would like to know more than anything, is does this set the precedent for what we're going to be doing in the future when you get institutions of this size and scale getting involved in problems. And so I really want to examine that with you as well.
We'll have some questions and philosophical concerns over the actions taken by the Federal Reserve in conjunction with Bear Stearns. Based upon what I know, it appears the Federal Reserve's swift and decisive actions were both appropriate and necessary.
Chairman Bernanke, thank you for your strong and decisive leadership. I do not believe there's a single member of this committee does not recognize that liquid and properly functioning financial markets are critical to the nation's economic future.
Following news of events unfolding at Bear Stearns, your response at the Federal Reserve and the market's response to those actions and Treasury's proposal to revamp the financial sector's regulatory structure provided a stark reminder of how important confidence in markets is to their efficient operation. And recent events provided warning as to how fragile markets become when confidence evaporates.
There's been a great deal of fingerpointing as to who's to blame for the current situation, whether its unscrupulous mortgage brokers or dishonest situations all around or incompetent actions by rating agencies or irresponsible speculators, investment bankers, but putting aside the fingerpointing for a moment, it appears to me that the failure to quantify accurately the true risk of highly leveraged transactions lies at the epicenter of what we've seen in this current situation. And unfortunately, there doesn't appear to be a particularly good learning curve on our part associated with financial crisis, and you can go back through multiple administrations, multiple chairmans to look at this.
Looking at the popping of the dot com bubble in the 1990s, the stock market plunge in October of '87, the S&L crisis in 1980, Continental Illinois before that, and on and on. And in just seems like in each case, the euphoria of good times would appear to not adequately acknowledge what seems to be improbable outcomes can actually arise. It would seem not to adequately protect against the risk of these improbable events coming to fruition and resulting in very large losses.
I do not think that you can always spot speculative excesses that lead to asset price bubbles, but when observe things like escalator clauses and real estate contracts and no-documentation mortgage lending, we should start to get concerned. I fear that regulators in the euphoria of good times simply fell asleep at the wheel. We described the real estate market as being characterized by "pockets of froth," but what turned out to be gambles on real estate prices ended up influencing the financial stability of our nation's financial system. And that's what's so interesting, I guess, to me is how this, then, leads to where we are today.
I find that the Fed accommodated financing for the acquisition of Bear Stearns because that company effectively faced a crisis of confidence and their claimants staged a run on the institution. Evidently, the Fed deemed Bear Stearns as too big to send to bankruptcy. Evidently, the Fed deemed Bear Stearns as too big to send to bankruptcy for fear of threats to the systemic stability of the nation's financial system.
If the Federal Reserve is going to take private sector assets onto its balance sheet, I would hope that we, at least, have the Fed and others monitoring what the people who bought those assets were doing.
If private institutions engage in highly leveraged bets and those bets turn out to go sour, we're putting U.S. taxpayer funds at risk. And the Fed ends up effectively guaranteeing some or all of the value of those bets. If that's what we're going to do, then don't we at least need oversight into what bets are allowable?
With the advent of hedge funds, off-balance-sheet financial entities, sovereign wealth funds and the like, whose bets are we willing to back? I think these are very important public policy questions that we need to have some definition on the answers if the world is to have faith that the promises made in U.S. financial markets will be honored without imposing undue risk from rogue speculators.
I know while you have a lot of smart people working at the Federal Reserve, I am concerned when the taxpayers' money becomes the skin in the game to rescue supposedly sophisticated investment commercial banks from the results of their own poor decision-making. I am extremely interested in learning more about what processes the Federal Reserve will utilize to quantify the financial risk to the taxpayer resulting from the Fed's $29 billion backstop to the Bear Stearns/JPMorgan marriage.
As the Federal Reserve continues to study the meltdown in the subprime mortgage market, I hope that you will undertake an evaluation of the degree to which the failure to implement quality control standards on mortgage-originating activity contributed to that current crisis. Specifically, I'd like the Federal Reserve to determine if instituting a system of rating originators for the completeness and accuracy of the data they provide lenders and making that part of the loan's rating would, based on an evaluation of real-world data, have prevented some of these loans from being made or from being scrutinized.
From my perspective, this would add exactly the kind of transparency and more granular information called for in the president's working group report. The essence of meaningful quality control and risk management is to constantly test those systems for material weaknesses.
As you know, the Senate's considering housing legislation. One of those issues coming up is amending the bankruptcy code to allow bankruptcy courts to amend the terms of the mortgages on principal residence. I'm interested from your perspective, if you're willing to comment, the impact you think that may have on the financial markets and mortgage-backed securities.
And on another note, I'd like to express for the record my continued concern over the Senate's failure to give you a full complement of Federal Reserve governors and the president a full Council of Economic Advisers at this critical junction for our economy.
Mr. Chairman, I thank you for being here. I thank the chairman for scheduling this hearing and look forward to the testimony and exchange of questions.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Chairman, you've stepped in on Bear Stearns, and you used authority, as I understand, that hasn't been used since the Great Depression. Obviously the Fed looked at Bear Stearns and said, "This place is too big to fail," because they could have gone through a bankruptcy proceeding. That's what they had indicated to you they were going to do.
What governs the Fed's decision on whether to take on the risk of these assets? You say we didn't bail them out; but we put in -- we've got $29 billion of U.S. taxpayer-backed assets now that are private sector being backed by the U.S. taxpayer. What governs the Fed's decisions on whether to go into this? And then I'm going to follow up with that and ask you, do we have other candidates that we may be doing this with in the near term?
MR. BERNANKE: Well, our decision was based on two criteria. The first was that -- was the Bear Stearns itself and its interconnectedness and importance in the financial system, to the thousands of counterparties that it has, the important markets in which it participates, and the shock that we thought that its, you know, unexpected failure would have on the financial system.
The other criterion was the fact that the markets are very fragile. And perhaps in a more robust environment, we would have made a different choice, but in the current environment we felt that it was too risky to allow this to happen if we could avoid it.
Now, it was not clear that we -- we have no authority, you know, to buy the firm or anything like that. What we tried to do was arrange -- as often happens in the case of banks that are in trouble; for example, the FDIC will try to arrange a merger or an acquisition with another bank. So essentially that's what we tried to do, to get JPMorgan Chase or any other firm that was interested to come and acquire Bear Stearns.
The $30 billion assets -- we lent $29 billion against $30 billion of assets. That was an extraordinary thing to do. I thought about it long and hard. I would hope not to ever do it again. I think the risk is much, much less than $30 billion because we do have assets behind that loan. But we did it essentially because it was needed to facilitate the transaction, and we were persuaded that without that assistance, that the transaction would not go through and that the consequences would be severe.
Again, that's not something we hope to do in the future, and it was quite usual, as you point out.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So you're noting that this is the situation -- is a bit of a situations ethics, I guess, is what you're saying; that you wouldn't have done this 10 years ago, you may not do it next year, but in this situation. Do you have other private companies that, if they are in a similar situation to Bear Stearns, then you're basically saying in this environment we would likely do this?
MR. BERNANKE: I really can't answer that question in advance. It's going to depend on the situation and depend on the markets. We do not currently have concerns of this type, but obviously we're monitoring the entire market and all the major companies.
Again, I hope this is a rare event. I hope it's not something we ever have to do again. But clearly, we do have to watch the markets and do what we can to ensure financial stability.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What's the biggest factor you're watching right now on this economy, that you're most concerned about?
MR. BERNANKE: Well, I think that -- as I mentioned earlier, I think that housing is very much at the center of both the economic situation and the financial situation. While credit issues and financing issues have spread throughout the financial market, the worst problems are still in the mortgage area, and many -- the largest proportion of the write-downs that have been taken by banks and other financial institutions have been related to mortgage assets. So, as we look forward, the issue of, you know, when the housing market will stabilize and how much house prices will adjust and so on is very important as we think about both financial and economic developments.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You mentioned that Congress should act in the housing field. One of the things being considered is a change in the bankruptcy law, allowing a restructuring to take place on the housing loans, that's being proposed. Do you have a -- you didn't' mention that in your items that you support. You mentioned a series of items you support; you didn't mention that. Do you have an opinion of that -- the impact of that legislation on the housing market?
MR. BERNANKE: Well, there are arguments on both sides in that case. In favor is the idea that perhaps bankruptcy courts could achieve a more efficient and quicker resolution. On the other side are concerns about delays that might occur in the bankruptcy courts and the possibility that the what would be perceived as a breach of property rights would lead to higher interest rates in the future. So I think it's a tough question. The Federal Reserve did not take a position on the last bankruptcy bill, and I think we're going to stay neutral on this one, as well.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I might point out to you -- I've been traveling around my state -- a number of companies are hiring people that are based on -- that have a lot of manufacturing, a lot of export orientation to them -- they're hiring aggressively individuals that they can get ahold of.
So I know that the dollar's impact has been positive overall for us and in that situation.
I do want your quick opinion, if I could get it, on this massive overhaul of the regulatory structure that's being proposed by the Treasury Department. Is this something that you believe is necessary given the changed financial markets? Or would you care to comment?
MR. BERNANKE: Well, as Senator Schumer mentioned, the financial markets have changed a lot since the '20s and the '30s. And we need to think about how our regulatory system lines up with the existing structure of financial markets.
The Treasury plan, I think, is a very interesting and useful first step. It points out essentially the three essential functions of regulatory agencies -- the prudential, the market stability and the business conduct functions.
I think we all agree that there's going to be quite a bit of discussion and analysis before we are ready to do major changes in our regulatory structure. But I do think that it's well time for us to be giving that serious consideration.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are there particular provisions of it that you do agree with? You've said on the overall package, it's an interesting starting point, I guess you would put it, to the discussion. Are there particular pieces of it you clearly agree with and believe are needed?
MR. BERNANKE: Well, I would just make one comment, which is that one of the ideas in the blueprint is to give the Federal Reserve sort of broad authority to be a financial markets stability regulator.
The Federal Reserve has a long tradition of trying to maintain financial stability and is very interested and concerned with those issues. But we would want to be sure that if we were given that very important responsibility that we had adequate powers, authorities, expertise and so on to make sure that we could do it effectively. And so that would be an issue for us to think about as we go forward.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, Chairman. Thanks for staying in here for another around, too. Appreciate your wife teaching, and I'm concerned about the human capital formation. Our oldest daughter is teaching, doing the Teach for America program in Houston and teaching seventh grade math, which are probably two topics that should never be blended -- seventh grade and math. And it's just tough, and it's tough to teach, and it's been a difficult environment.
I do think we've got to expand and support more our family structure in the country as one of the key building blocks for where you form that human capital. But that's not something the Fed's working on.
You said -- you've said a couple things earlier that I just wanted to follow up on. You learned a day before Bear Stearns was going to file for bankruptcy, and that's what clicked in this extraordinary set of things. And apparently that information was new information to you a day ahead of time, that they were going to have to fall -- file for bankruptcy -- you've stepped in, did extraordinary actions -- and that now you've got more people placed with some of these major firms apparently getting information. And then that the regulatory markets are needing -- regulation changes slowly; financial markets change rapidly.
I'm just curious. What information are you looking for now from these big financial institutions to make sure that the next one isn't a big surprise?
MR. BERNANKE: Well, we're looking -- of course, our authorities differ in terms of the bank holding companies, for which we have, you know, statutory supervisory responsibility, versus the investment banks, where we are cooperating with the SEC and with the companies on a voluntary basis, because they have access now to our window. So there's somewhat different responsibilities and authorities in those two cases. But clearly we're looking at asset quality and capital. We're looking at liquidity. We're trying to make judgments about managerial -- risk management, earnings quality, a variety of things that we look at to try to ascertain whether a financial institution is sound or not. And if not, you know, we need to push them to improve their processes, to raise capital, improve their liquidity.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You mentioned on Bear Stearns it wasn't a capital problem; it was a liquidity problem. So is liquidity THE primary issue you're looking at now?
MR. BERNANKE: I think you need to look at both. There's always an interaction. Liquidity tends to dry up when people have concerns about capital -- that is, about solvency. But in the current situation that we have, it is possible for liquidity to be withdrawn based on less than solid information. And so we think both of -- both the capital and liquidity are important for stability.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But you're getting more information now.
MR. BERNANKE: Yes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are you concerned about the information you're getting? I mean, is -- are you looking at any of these situations and saying, "Okay, I've got some concerns developing in this or that category"? I mean, this UBS -- do we read into that of any information that you are coming up with that that -- at this point in time and saying we need more capital here?
MR. BERNANKE: Well, UBS is an example. I mean, we were aware of their problems for quite a while. They, however, are a Swiss- domiciled bank, and so the Swiss took the primary responsibility.
Of course, we work with the Swiss because they have extensive operations in the United States.
The appropriate response to their losses would be to raise capital, and indeed they did, and that was in fact very encouraging that they were able to go out and raise a substantial amount of capital, and that's exactly what we would urge any institution that was in trouble, either to raise capital or to somehow get itself acquired, would be our general approach.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Did the Swiss central bank push them to raise capital?
MR. BERNANKE: I'm sure -- and I'm not speaking now with -- you know, I don't want to reveal any confidences or speak out of turn, but as a normal course of events, the supervisors of a bank in Europe, just as in the United States, would be, you know, very much interested in the ability and the willingness of the company to raise adequate capital.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So that they would have been tracking the situation for UBS and suggesting, okay, you need -- I need to get more capital --
MR. BERNANKE: Certainly, as we were doing here in the United States.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But the Bear Stearns situation jumped up on us rapidly. Because of a lack of information? Or that there was just a run on the institution? That I'm trying to figure out, is there another shoe to fall here sometime soon, or is it that, okay, we think this was an unusual situation with Bear Stearns and we're not seeing the same sort of factors lining up with any of these other big financial institutions?
MR. BERNANKE: I don't see those same factors lining up. The fact that we're now lending to the dealers I think will be of some help on the liquidity side. But obviously, you know, the future is never certain and we're going to have to be vigilant as we go forward.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And the central bankers, it looks like to me, are going to step in at an earlier phase now with what happened with Bear Stearns to push for capital liquidity to prevent the setup from happening again that happened with Bear Stearns.
MR. BERNANKE: Bear Stearns was very unusual in terms of how quickly things deteriorated. Again, I would defer to some extent to my colleagues at tomorrow's panel, Senator Dodd's hearing, who will be able to give much more detailed information about what was seen when on Bear Stearns's books. So we will be able to provide that information to the Congress.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is our economy shifting now? The last questioner, I thought, had some interesting points about the consumer debt, which we've been concerned about for a long period of time. Are we shifting away from as much of a consumer-driven economy, more towards exports or other pieces for our gross domestic product?
MR. BERNANKE: There is one, I think, very encouraging trend, which is the increasing competitiveness of U.S. exports and the extent to which our firms are selling and competing internationally. Our net exports are -- have been a major source of our growth that we've had recently, and we expect it to be important in the next year or two, as well. So that is a positive from the point of view of our economy, and it will obviously affect our trade deficit and reduce our need for foreign finance and so on.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, Chairman. Thank you very much.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://jec.senate.gov/releases.htm
