Public Statements
Harkin, Brownback, Udall and Wampt Introduce Bicameral, Bipartisan Legislation to Push Physical Activity Guidlines
Press Release
By: Mark Udall Sam Brownback Tom Harkin Zach Wamp
Date: March 12, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

Legislation Would Require Health Department to Create Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans of Every Age Lack of Physical Activity a Key Factor in Rising Rates of Obesity and Skyrocketing Health Care Costs
Responding to recent reports that Americans are growing unhealthier and less active, U.S. Senators Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Sam Brownback (R-KS), along with Representatives Mark Udall (D-CO) and Zach Wamp (R-TN) today introduced legislation aimed at improving the health and wellness of Americans. The Physical Activities Guidelines for Americans Act would direct the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to prepare and promote physical activity guidelines based on the latest scientific evidence, for Americans similar to dietary and nutritional guidelines, commonly known as the Food Pyramid, which are updated every five years.
"Many Americans are unaware of just how much exercise they should be getting," said Senator Harkin. "These guidelines will promote a healthier lifestyle and improve fitness among all age groups. This is a step towards combating the obesity epidemic and the onslaught of chronic disease that is causing our health care costs to skyrocket."
"I am pleased that the Physical Activities Guidelines for Americans Act will promote better physical activity guidelines for all Americans. It is clear that in order to combat the rising rates of obesity we must encourage physical activity as key components of a healthy lifestyle," said Senator Brownback. "Reducing America's obesity rate and encouraging healthier living will alleviate a wide-range of health issues currently facing our nation's youth."
"The wealthiest country in the world should be the healthiest. This is a matter of national security and of economic competitiveness," said Congressman Udall. "These guidelines are a common-sense way to improve the quality of life of many Americans."

Source:
