Public Statements
Boeing Loses
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 4, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


BOEING LOSES -- (Senate - March 04, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, thank you very much.
I thank my colleagues. I, too, am from a State that is keenly impacted by what is taking place on this bid proposal. The Air Force's decision to award a new tanker contract last week is a crowning achievement, not for the Air Force or the United States but for Airbus and the Europeans.
We were saying in our office, I wonder if in the future our young men and women going into the Air Force to fly these planes or to work on these planes are going to have to pass a test in French--``Parlez-vous francais?''--to be able to determine whether we can work on these aircraft. And to be able to get maintenance, equipment, and training, well, we are going to have to go to Europe to be able to do that. We are going to have to get the people who built them to tell us how to do it. I do not think that is right.
I also would like to say to my colleagues, I have been around this fight between Airbus and Boeing for a long time, and Airbus has subsidized itself directly into the commercial aviation market. They had zero market share 30 years ago. They started a European consortium called Airbus and EADS to be able to get at Boeing and into the commercial aviation market. They completely subsidized their way into it. It got to a point with the subsidies where they were taking over half of the marketplace in commercial aviation. Now here we go again. We are just now on the defense side of it. Instead of the commercial side, we are on the defense side.
This aircraft which EADS and Airbus have put together is heavily subsidized by European governments, by European treasuries, to be able to get a price point, to be able to compete against a well-known Boeing aircraft that has been in our fleet for decades, that has worked well for decades, that has been used to train our young pilots and multiple generations of pilots on this tanker. Now we are going to put those pilots in an Airbus plane, and they are going to land in fields all over the world in an Airbus airplane--our U.S. military risking life and limb--while the Europeans make money off of us and get into, by subsidization, a defense marketplace.
Make no mistake, this is just a start. This is what the Europeans did in commercial aviation. They started subsidizing commercial aviation. They got in one place, got all the market share, and subsidized into another one.
They do things called launch aid. I don't know, my colleagues probably are not familiar with launch aid, but launch aid is where European governments say: We will give you this much money to start this aircraft, and if you stop producing this aircraft, then you have to pay the money back. Well, it then pays them to keep producing the aircraft, and even selling it at a loss, because then they do not have to pay the launch aid back.
Well, now they are doing it in a defense contract field, and they start with tankers. The Europeans start with tankers. Then they will go with surveillance aircraft. Then they will move to other airframes, to where then is it going to be all of our major airframes that are going to be made by the Europeans?
I like the comment from my colleague from the State of Washington: What happens if the Europeans are not pleased with what we are doing in the war on terrorism or what we are doing in the defense of Israel and if then their governments start saying: Well, I don't like what your policy is in the Middle East. Now, as you know, what they do is they say: Well, we are not going to give you overflight rights. We are not going to let you fly your planes out of Germany or not let you fly your planes out of Great Britain. We are going to stop you.
What if in the future they start saying: We are not going to sell you spare parts. Then where are we at that point in time? What do we say to them? I do not know how to use my French enough to plead and beg for spare parts, but I really do not want to be in that spot, and I do not think we should.
As a friend of mine said to me this morning--he is for a very open trading system--he said: There are two things we should not be dependent upon other governments for: one is for your defense, and one is for your food. Those are just two things you should not be dependent upon another government for. Now we are going to be dependent for our defense on a European government that often goes a different way than us. I think this is crazy. For a decision that is going to last--as my colleague, my seatmate from Kansas, said--for up to 80 years, that just does not seem to be a smart way to go.
This is one Senator who is going to fight against this, who is going to fight against this in the appropriations process. I do not think it is smart. I think it is the wrong thing to do.
Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, will my colleague and friend yield for a question?
Mr. BROWNBACK. Yes, I will.
Mr. ROBERTS. I say to the Senator, you brought something up that I think is very important. As you look at the various countries that form up EADS and Airbus and that will participate in this joint effort, which is subsidized, even though we have a WTO case against them, what happens if these countries do not agree, as the Senator has pointed out, with our appropriate policy in regard to the war against terrorism or any other endeavor?
The example I would like to make is: Look at the amount of money these countries, in their gross domestic product, give to defense. The answer is almost zero. Look at the amount of investment they give to NATO, where we are now fighting al-Qaida in Afghanistan. A few countries will fight with us. Note the word I said: ``fight.'' As to other countries that are now receiving this contract, despite the fact they are subsidizing their own product, they are not fighting in Afghanistan. They are not contributing to NATO in a positive way. Some of them are there, but they do not enter into the battle.
Now, here we are, with the American taxpayer paying for the security of Europe and Europe really not facing up to the task of funding and participating in NATO to the extent they can. Yet, in regard to our national security with this particular purchase--and if you do not have tankers, you do not have global reach, you cannot go anywhere, you have access denial, and you cannot even fight the war in regard to Afghanistan or any future place. Yet they are absent without leave, they are not even there.
So I think my friend has made an excellent point and I thank him for his comments. We are going to join in an effort to see what can be done because this is harmful not only in regards to workers in France, vis-a-vis these workers in America, but it involves our national security.
I think my colleague and my friend from Kansas has made an excellent point.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I appreciate my colleague joining with me. I wish to make two other quick points. One is I think we need a long-term economic model of the impact on our economy versus the impact on the European economy. Because I believe if you look at the true cost and if you look at the true impact of these jobs being in the United States versus subsidized jobs in Europe, you are going to see the long-term economic impact on this country and on our Government with the taxes our workers would pay will be better by building the plane here.
Second--and this is a strategic issue--this is a bigger plane that is being purchased by the military. It is going to need a longer landing strip. Are those longer landing strips going to be available in countries such as Azerbaijan or Kazakhstan or are we going to be able to get a longer runway to be able to land on? Now we have a plane that will carry more fuel, but it will take a longer landing strip. We can build those in the United States. We can build bigger hangars here. Can we around the world so we can have the reach we need?
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, will the Senator from Kansas yield for a question?
Mr. BROWNBACK. I am happy to yield.
Mrs. MURRAY. I am listening to the Senator from Kansas, and he makes a very good point about the infrastructure that will be needed to be built to build these larger airplanes. Was any of the cost of building those runways or those hangars to accommodate the larger airplanes in part of the bid from Airbus?
Mr. BROWNBACK. I understand from the Air Force yesterday that some of it was, but I don't understand if it was--I do not know fully if it was just the U.S. cost or if it is also what we are going to have to get from other countries around the world on costs there for landing, longer landing strips, and bigger hangars to be able to put any of the aircraft in. So I don't know if that is fully in it as well. But these are huge, decade-long projects and costs.
Mrs. MURRAY. I thank the Senator. I think it is a point we have to look at in terms of the costs of providing this military contract to a subsidized foreign company as well as the future costs--not just for those airplanes but for the infrastructure to handle it and our capability of doing that.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, we have just started this discussion, and I think it is a big one, I think it is an important one, whether we should be dependent upon European governments for our global reach in military for our aircraft. That is what tankers provide us is a global reach and whether we should be dependent on the European governments--upon the French, upon the Germans, upon the Brits--for our global reach. I don't think we should be. I think we have to look at the subsidization of this cost by the Europeans. I think that needs to be discounted and taken out of this proposal. I think we have to look at a long-term project, and we are going to be talking about this a lot before we go forward with this--as Chancellor Merkel called it, this giant success for Airbus and the European aviation industry. It may have been that it is at our cost. I am not going to stand still and let it happen.
I yield the floor.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
