Public Statements
Prenatally and Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 27, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


PRENATALLY AND POSTNATALLY DIAGNOSED CONDITIONS AWARENESS ACT -- (Senate - February 27, 2008)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am excited and encouraged that the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension today voted unanimously to pass the Prenatally and Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act. This legislation will help parents receiving the news that their unborn child may be born with a disability by supplying them with current and reliable information about the many services and support networks available. This information will also be made available to parents whose children were diagnosed at birth or up until 12 months of age.
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists now recommends that the screening procedure used to detect Downsyndrome be offered to all pregnant women, not just those over the age of 35, as was recommended in the past. According to the American Journal of Medical Genetics, 80-90 percent of patients who are told that the child they are carrying has Downsyndrome choose to have abortions. The percentage is similarly high for children with other prenatally diagnosable conditions. A recent study by Prenatal Diagnosis actually puts the figure at between 91 to 93 percent.
I believe that one of the main reasons for these disturbingly high figures is that many people in society still believe the outdated stereotypes and misconceptions that continue to exist about people with disabilities. In a study done by Louis Harris and Associates, the vast majority of adults with even the most severe disabilities reported being ``very satisfied'' or ``somewhat satisfied'' with their lives. The same study shows that there is virtually no difference between the proportion of Americans with disabilities and those without who are married and who have children. Many people with even the most severe disabilities live independently, have jobs, get married, have children, and pay taxes.
Parent support groups and disability advocacy groups have tried to reach out to parents who have received prenatal diagnoses of various conditions, but they often have difficulty getting practical information about raising a child with a disability and information about available services and resources to new and expecting parents. This bill will help to remediate this situation in five concrete ways.
First, the bill establishes a toll-free resource telephone hotline parents can call after they have been given a prenatal or postnatal diagnosis for their child. The bill also calls for the expansion of the leading information clearinghouse on disability, so that it can more effectively provide parents with accurate, up-to-date information on their child's condition along with available resources and services. The bill also provides for the expansion and development of national and local parent support programs and disability advocacy groups, so that they can more effectively reach out to new parents. A national registry of parents willing to adopt children with these disabilities would also be established under this bill. Finally, this bill will help create awareness and education programs for health care providers who give parents the results of these tests.
It is difficult, sometimes overwhelming, for new and expecting parents to receive the news that their new baby or their unborn child will have a disability. I hope that this bill will provide these parents with the information and support they so desperately need during this critical time. I hope this information will encourage parents that their child can live a meaningful and fulfilling life and that this bill will heighten society's awareness of the capabilities value and worth of people with disabilities.
I would like to thank Senator Kennedy, Senator Enzi, and all other members of the HELP Committee who have worked so diligently with my office to get this important legislation past the HELP Committee. I am hopeful that this bill will soon receive consideration by the full Senate. The quicker my colleagues and I move to pass this bill, the more people we can help with these critical services and information.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
