Public Statements
Brownback Applauds Committee Passage of Pre-Natally and Post-Natally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 27, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Applauds Committee Passage of Pre-Natally and Post-Natally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee passage of the Pre-natally and Post-natally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act, legislation which would require that families who receive a diagnosis of Down syndrome or any other condition, pre-natally or up until a year after birth, will be given pertinent information about the condition and connection with support services and networks that could offer assistance.
"It is difficult, sometimes overwhelming, for expecting parents to receive news that their unborn child may be born with a disability," said Brownback. "This legislation will help parents receiving such news by supplying them with current and reliable information about the many options available for caring for children with disabilities."
The Pre-natally and Post-natally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act, sponsored by Senators Brownback and Edward Kennedy (D-MA), today by unanimous consent was passed by the Senate HELP Committee. The bill now moves to full Senate consideration.
Brownback continued, "I am hopeful this bill soon moves to consideration by the full Senate. The quicker my colleagues and I move to pass this bill, the more quickly we can help families across the nation."
The Pre-natally and Post-natally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act would provide for the expansion and further development of a national clearinghouse on information for parents of children with disabilities to assist parents whose children have recently been pre- or post-natally diagnosed. The bill also provides for the expansion and further development of national and local peer-support programs. The bill also calls for the creation of a national registry of families willing to adopt children with pre- or post-natally diagnosed conditions.
Currently, 90 percent of children pre-natally diagnosed with Down syndrome are aborted. That percentage is similar for children pre-natally diagnosed with other conditions such as spina bifida, cystic fibrosis, and dwarfism.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=293725
