Public Statements
Morning Session of a Hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee - Oversight of the U.S. Department of Justice
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 30, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
Welcome, Attorney General. I want to continue with you on Guantanamo if I could and I appreciate your articulation of factors that you're looking at on Guantanamo Bay and on closing it, the president's point. I want to invite you to my state and to Leavenworth, to the disciplinary barracks, which is the site most often cited, if we're going to close Guantanamo, to move the detainees to, is in my state, in the disciplinary barracks.
And the reason I want to invite you there is that I don't think we're set for this set of detainees to move there, to this facility. I've toured the facility. It's a relatively new facility. I think it's an excellent facility, but I don't think it's set for this sort of -- the detainees that would be coming out of Guantanamo.
So just as a very pragmatic issue, if you close Guantanamo, the detainees are going somewhere. And the current projection is they go to Leavenworth and to disciplinary barracks there. And it's -- I don't think we're set for that to take place, and I'd hope you could come and look at it and try to appraise that particular issue, just as a pragmatic one.
A second issue is, is right next to the disciplinary barracks is the Command and General Staff College of the military. So most of your military leadership is going through the place that's within three miles of the disciplinary barracks, maybe less than that. I'm not sure that's why, as you listed a series of legal questions about moving the detainees to U.S. soil, which I think are appropriate. There's also a couple of very pragmatic questions that I don't think it's necessarily a wise route to go at this point in time. I don't think we're ready to handle this.
ATTY GEN. MUKASEY: I agree with you that there are practical considerations, and I don't know of any representative, from any state, who has acknowledged that his state, or any facility in his state, is ready to accept people who are at Guantanamo. I just don't. But beyond that are other considerations, such as the effect legally of bringing people stateside. There are people who have said that they intend to bring a flurry of thousands of lawsuits to curtail the process of trying people, so that eventually they'd have to be simply released. And obviously bringing them here is going to make that a whole lot easier.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I just would hope you would consider coming and actually looking at the facility -- or somebody -- before, okay, we're shutting this down and we're sending them to Leavenworth is the statement that happens.
ATTY GEN. MUKASEY: Senator, I can assure you that before that ever happens, I will come to Leavenworth.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. A couple of issues I want to raise with you in the time I have.
It's come to my attention, the government's considering -- I only say that it's considering, but I just want to put it on your radar screen -- intervening in a case, caption, Knox versus the Palestinian Authority and the PLO, to prevent U.S. citizen plaintiffs from collecting damages awarded to them against the Palestinian Authority for acts of terrorism.
The reason I raise that is that some are seeking to vacate a $174 million judgment. And I had hoped that if you're aware of this, that you would let the U.S. citizens be able to proceed and receive their awards. I don't know that the agency is -- the department is looking at this at all. I just wanted to raise it for your radar screen.
ATTY GEN. MUKASEY: Appreciate you raising it.
SEN. BROWNBACK: A second issue is -- we're going to be bringing up, I hope, the reauthorization of the human trafficking legislation. And we're considering that now. And there are some key issues on new definitions that we'll want to work with you and your department on. I think the -- I think the department has done a very good job on a new topic.
Senator Biden and I have been working on this since Senator Wellstone and I originally did this. It's a very important piece of legislation from the level of human trafficking that's taking place globally now. The department has been nicely on top of it. I think as we look at renewing this, we can build on our successes and not expand definitions to points that we -- that we can't handle it.
I don't know if you had any thought that you wanted to give us before we move forward with that legislation.
ATTY GEN. MUKASEY: I think we have been aggressive in prosecuting human trafficking cases, and we'll continue to be.
SEN. BROWNBACK: There's a D.C. gun ban case that's in front of the Supreme Court, and the administration's position on this has raised some question about it. I'm just curious if you agree with the position that the Second Amendment protects an individual right to bear arms.
ATTY GEN. MUKASEY: I do.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What about -- do you view it as a fundamental right? Because there's been question raised about the administration's view of this.
ATTY GEN. MUKASEY: The administration's view, as expressed in its brief, is that this a right that is subject to intermediate scrutiny. That the administration's interest here was in making sure that proper laws that are on the books to regulate, for example, guns falling into the hands of felons are not swept up and excluded here. But the standard is intermediate scrutiny, it is not simply rational basis. It's an intermediate scrutiny standard that would allow us to continue to enforce federal firearms laws that we have to continue to enforce, and that was our reason for intervening. And that's all in the brief.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me ask you, as well, on your view, in the time I have left, on the FISA legislation. And some people are putting forward the idea that we should just substitute the federal government for telecommunications companies. And this has come to be one of the central pieces of the legislation in the debate, is the immunity for telecommunications companies that do work with the government at the government's request.
And some are saying, well let's substitute the government for the telecommunications companies.
I want to ask you your thought on that particular issue, but before I do, because I'll probably run out of time in this, I want to thank you for stepping into this job at a tough time, and you get a lot of hard questions. I think you handle them very well. These are uncomfortable topics. They're ones that a lot of times we'd all look at and say, well I'd rather just not deal with that and deal with other things, but it's a very practical world that you're in. And I appreciate you at the end of the administration, the last year of high caliber career that you bring and acknowledge this, and I appreciate you stepping in to the breach for it.
ATTY GEN. MUKASEY: Thank you very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: God bless you and Godspeed in carrying on forward the rest of the year.
ATTY GEN. MUKASEY: Thank you very much.
On the specific issue of substitution, the conduct of the companies would continue to be an issue, would continue to be a subject of dispute, which could do two things. It could open up their conduct and means and methods of scrutiny, and as well, it could send a signal to them that they can't cooperate in the future without a court order; they can't cooperate in good faith.
The overarching point, I think, to be made here is that this is a limited immunity in the sense that it's limited -- it doesn't apply, obviously, to companies that didn't participate, and it applies only to companies that participated on the assurance that what they were doing was lawful and that the request came from the president. So those are the only two categories.
But I agree with you that substitution is a bad idea.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.usdoj.gov/03press/03_1_1.html
