Public Statements
Brownback Responds to Tyson Food Plant Closure in Kansas
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 30, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today responded to Tyson Food's announcement that it is closing its slaughtering facility located in Emporia, Kansas. Brownback today spoke about the situation with Tyson Food CEO Dick Bond and Department of Labor Secretary Elaine Chao.
"Unfortunately, many people will be affected by Tyson's decision to lay off workers from the Emporia facility," said Brownback. "Although this is not a welcome development, I know the city of Emporia will come out of this stronger and more resilient, and I am ready to help any way I can."
Brownback today spoke with Tyson Food CEO Dick Bond and sought information on the reasons for closing the Emporia slaughtering facility. Brownback also asked Bond about the services and benefits Tyson will offer laid off employees and asked that Tyson continue its presence in other parts of Kansas.
Brownback continued, "Today I had a candid conversation with Dick Bond about Tyson's decision to shut down the Emporia slaughtering facility. I encouraged Mr. Bond to help the affected employees as much as possible, and to also consider the Emporia facility for any possible future expansion."
Brownback also spoke with Labor Secretary Chao and asked that the Labor Department assist and re-train the laid off workers. Brownback requested that the Labor Department work with Emporia to make available assistance like job training and dislocated worker funds.
"Labor Secretary Chao and I had a good conversation about the current situation in Emporia," said Brownback. "Secretary Chao mentioned the potential to utilize Department of Labor programs to help those who have been affected by the recent job reductions."
Last week, Tyson announced that it was shutting down slaughtering operations at their Emporia plant, laying off at least 1,500 employees. Tyson Foods is Emporia's largest employer, with about 2,400 employed prior to the layoffs.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=291531
