Public Statements
FISA Amendments Act of 2007
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 24, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

Thank you very much, Mr. President.
I join my colleagues, particularly my colleague from Texas and my colleague from Missouri, in supporting this bill and in opposition to the Leahy amendment.
My colleague from Texas identified a number of the issues that are in the amendment. I serve on the Judiciary Committee. It is a great committee. Senator Leahy does an excellent job leading the committee. But on this particular issue it is my belief, as a Judiciary Committee member, that we should recede to what the Intelligence Committee has put forward on a bipartisan basis and move forward with this bipartisan bill we have rather than going with, essentially, the substitute that the Judiciary Committee came up with, which was put forward on a partisan basis.
My colleague from Texas noted we have 9 days until this legislation expires. If we go with the Leahy substitute--as much as I respect Senator Leahy--the President is going to veto this bill and we are going to be in a nonfunctional position for a period of time while we get things put back together. There is no reason to do that. We have a bipartisan bill.
The Intelligence Committee bill passed with only two dissenting votes. The Judiciary Committee substitute, in essence, that is being put forward--it has been modified and changed, but, in essence, it is what came forward from the Judiciary Committee--came out on a strictly partisan party-line basis.
Why wouldn't we go with the bipartisan bill that passed, I believe, 13 to 2 rather than go with the partisan bill that will be vetoed and then we will just be back here? We are not going to have the votes for a veto override. We would then go without this needed law provision so we can provide for the security of the country, as well as protect the civil liberties and rights of individuals within America.
I want to note in particular on this issue of telecommunications companies and the information they provide, I think we need to provide some level of immunity for companies to participate and work with the Federal Government on information that the Federal Government has legitimately requested.
In case people think, ``Well, OK, you are just giving a pass to the telecommunications companies,'' I want to read what the requirements are within the Intelligence Committee bill toward the telecommunications companies. The telecommunications carriers face a series of threats and lawsuits presently over their complying with what the Federal Government required. But the Senate Intelligence Committee immunity provisions do not just simply dismiss the cases outright. Instead, the bill sets forth a process for the Attorney General to submit a certification to the court that the telecom carriers either, one, did not provide the Government the alleged assistance in the first place, or, two, provided assistance pursuant to a valid request, directive, or order indicating that the activity was authorized by the President and determined to be lawful. The court would then separately review the Attorney General's certification for an abuse of discretion. This multilevel certification and review process will ensure an underlying assessment by the Government and the courts of the genesis of the carriers' role, if any.
The immunity provisions would not apply to the Government or Government officials. Cases against the Government regarding the alleged programs would continue. And the provisions would apply only to civil and not criminal cases.
All in all, I think the Intelligence Committee bill strikes the right balance between intelligence gathering and protections for civil liberties.
My point in bringing this out is that this is not some blanket waiver toward telecommunications companies. It goes through a multilevel court and administrative review procedure that has to pass through both in order for the telecommunications company to be able to get this immunity from liability exposure. It is not just the Attorney General; it is also the court that is involved with this as well.
I would hope my colleagues who have concerns about civil liberties would look at that and say: Well, this is going to be reviewed in both places. This should be sufficient to require them--the telecommunications companies--to participate in this program, and to give them the immunity from liability, if they do this according to the law as determined by both the Attorney General and as determined by the court.
That seems to me to be a good level and a good balance of our intelligence needs, which are significant, and our civil liberties guarantees and requirements, which are required--that we guarantee civil liberties for the individual and that I want to see protected. But at the same time I want to see our citizens protected as well. And we have to be able to have some access to information of these communications--with intelligence, with terrorist organizations, individuals--that may be taking place.
All in all, I think the Intelligence Committee has done an excellent job of striking that balance between providing for our security needs and guaranteeing civil liberties of the individual. It has provided a multilayered process for this immunity to be able to be granted by different entities within the Government. It has done so in a balanced fashion. It has done so in a bipartisan fashion.
I don't know why, for the life of me, we would want to go with something on a partisan basis that is not going to get through the process, when we need the bill now and we have a good bill put forward by the Intelligence Committee.
So as a member of the Judiciary Committee, I would urge us to support the Intelligence Committee and not support the Leahy substitute. As much respect as I have for the chairman, I do not think that is the way for us to go in bringing this bill forward to closure for the good of the country.
I yield the floor.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
