Public Statements
Landrieu and Brownback Comment on UK Working Toward Human-Animal Hybrid
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 18, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

United States Senators Mary L. Landrieu, D-La., and Sam Brownback, R-Kan., today commented on the British government's approval of research related to the creation of human-animal hybrids. Last November, the Senators introduced the Human-Animal Hybrid Prohibition Act, S. 2358, to prevent the crossing of humans and animals because it unethically "[blurs] the line between human and animal."
"Creating human-animal hybrids could irrevocably harm the basic human genetic makeup and intentionally or unintentional change what it means to be human," Sen. Brownback said. "What was once only science fiction is now becoming a reality, and we need to ensure that experimentation and subsequent ramifications do not outpace ethical discussion and societal decisions. History does not look kindly on those who violate the dignity of the human person. The UK's decision to allow the creation of human-animal hybrids is short-sighted, and further underscores our need here at home to enact the common-sense Brownback-Landrieu Human-Animal Hybrid Prohibition Act."
"Here in the United States, we simply cannot open the door to the unethical blending of humans and animals, which the British government seems intent on doing," Sen. Landrieu said. "It creates an unnatural species and is a clear line we cannot cross. This unsound science also presents potential global health hazards due to increased risk of disease spreading to humans from animals. Senator Brownback and I have long fought against human cloning, and we will push for our anti-hybrid bill with equal vigor."
The Senators also last year reintroduced the Brownback-Landrieu Human Cloning Prohibition Act, S. 1036, which prohibits the performance or participation in human cloning. The bill prohibits human somatic cell nuclear transfer, the process by which a human clone is created. It does not ban medical procedures to assist a woman in becoming or remaining pregnant. The legislation also does not interfere with gene therapy, or ban DNA, cell or tissue cloning, outside of cloned human embryos. It includes provisions for enforcement penalties including a criminal sentence of up to 10 years and civil fines of at least $1 million - the same punishment for offenders of the anti-hybrid legislation.
While the bill strongly opposes human cloning, it does not address embryonic stem cell research. Sen. Brownback is opposed to such research, but Sen. Landrieu remains supportive of it.
The Times of London story discussing the British government's actions appears here: http://tinyurl.com/22eanx.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=290822
