Public Statements
Governor Christie Sends the Message That No Life is Disposable and Announces Initiative to Help Reclaim Lives by Breaking Cycle of Crime and Addiction
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 1, 2012
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today sent a clear message that no life is disposable by putting forward a plan of action to help New Jerseyans dealing with drug addiction reclaim their lives. The Governor's plan was first announced in his 2012 State of the State Address and reaffirmed in his Fiscal Year 2013 Budget Address when he called drug addiction a treatable disease and dedicated an additional $2.5 million in funding. In today's announcement, Governor Christie called for expanding New Jersey's highly successful Drug Court program with mandatory treatment for non-violent, drug-addicted offenders throughout all 21 New Jersey counties. He went even further and requested legislation to identify appropriate offenders for inclusion in the process, as well as a programmatic component for the expansion of treatment services and drug court operations to meet the needs of the new client population. Today's commitment is part of Governor Christie's comprehensive re-entry initiative to reduce recidivism and provide non-violent offenders with the help they need to lead productive lives.
"The underlying cause of many crimes in our society is in many cases drug-addiction or addiction-motivated behavior and for too long our criminal justice system has left it unaddressed. Right now, New Jersey has a limited but nationally-acclaimed Drug Court program with a strong record of reducing recidivism and reclaiming lives by breaking the vicious cycle of crime and addiction. This small, yet effective program has reached only a fraction of the non-violent addicts who might be eligible to participate in it," said Governor Christie.
Presently, drug courts in New Jersey accept approximately 1,400 new participants per year. New participants must volunteer for a sentence of drug court as opposed to incarceration. Under Governor Christie's plan, mandatory participation in a drug treatment program for a certain population of non-violent, drug-addicted offenders could be sentenced by a judge, regardless of whether they apply for admission to the Drug Court program.







Source:
