Public Statements
Governor Christie: If You Have A Friend Who You Know Is In Trouble, You Need Try To Help Them
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 7, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: The best way to avoid all of this stuff is just to never try it in the first place, but there are going to be times where you're going to have friends who may do it, who didn't take the pledge you took today, that have done something. But what of the other things I need you to be is an ambassador to help them. I think anybody would tell you, and I think you know this without me telling you, that if you have a friend who is in trouble, you don't help that friend who is in trouble by ignoring their problem and hoping it goes away. That's not the way it's going to work. If you have a friend who you know is in trouble who is making some bad choices, you need to talk to them and try to help them and if you can't get through to them you need to go to an adult who is responsible, like a teacher or a principal or guidance counselor or police officer, who can get your friend the help they need before they get sicker. Because when you use drugs, you have a disease and there are people who can help you but they can't help you if they don't know. They can't help your friends if they don't know. So that's not squealing on somebody. That's not ratting on somebody. That's trying to help somebody. If you have a friend and they have a problem, you need to reach out and help them too. And I think part of the pledge that you're taking today is not about just keeping yourselves safe, but it's helping to keep your friends safe too.
Group of Students: I will never use illegal drugs or take medication pills without the supervision of my parents or doctors, increase my awareness about the disease of addiction and learn about the signs, symptoms and effects, make every effort to seek help of an adult when I have learned of a friend who is using drugs, and honor each person I meet, never judge, show support, be honest, and lead by example.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170407c.html
