Public Statements
Governor Christie's Ongoing Best Practices Initiative Getting Results for Local Property Taxpayers
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Dec. 5, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

As part of the Christie Administration's continued commitment to rein in the cost of government, maximize taxpayer dollars and provide sustainable property tax relief, Governor Chris Christie today released the Year Two Best Practices Checklist results, which demonstrate that the majority of municipalities are adhering to good governance practices and working to achieve greater efficiencies. These results -- for the approximately 545 municipalities operating on a calendar year budget -- were compiled by the Department of Community Affairs (DCA). Earlier this year, DCA also began working with all 21 counties to complete similar Best Practices Checklists, with results to be released next year.
This is the second year of the Best Practices Initiative and all calendar year municipalities responded to the 50-question survey of Best Practices standards. More than 98 percent of the towns received scores that earned them their full aid payment, with the vast majority demonstrating they are taking best practices seriously. Only a handful of towns were penalized this year, compared to the 161 municipalities in the first year.
Today's announcement marks the latest achievement in the Christie Administration's efforts to deliver property tax relief and promote efficiency and accountability in local government, which includes the 2 percent property tax levy cap, Transitional Aid program, tool kit reforms, and municipal consolidation efforts.
"The Best Practices Initiative is an effective way to encourage municipalities to consider, embrace and implement a wide range of procedures and protocols that will help improve financial accountability and transparency that will inevitably lead to savings for property taxpayers," said Governor Christie. "While we continue pressing for additional property tax relief like civil service reform and ending sick time payouts abuse, municipalities can do their part to control property taxes by implementing these common sense, good government practices. I am encouraged to see that the vast majority of cities and towns have truly begun undertaking the Best Practices Checklist in earnest."

Source:
