Public Statements
Governor Christie: What Are We Paying You For?
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Nov. 28, 2011
Location: Unknown

Governor Chris Christie: I believe that the Occupy movement and the Tea Party movement come -- their genesis -- is from the same feeling, which is an anger that government can't get things done. And so, now, that is the last similarity between the Tea Party movement and the Occupy movement. But I believe that the cause for their anger comes from the same place. They look at Washington D.C. and they look at a president who is a bystander in the Oval Office. You know, I was angry this weekend, listening to the spin coming out of the administration about the failure of the Supercommittee. And that the President knew that it was doomed for failure so he didn't get involved. Well then what the hell are we paying you for? It's doomed for failure so I'm not getting involved? Well, what have you been doing exactly? I mean, I will tell you that I think both parties deserve blame for what's going on in Washington D.C., both parties do. They're spending more time talking at each other than talking with each other. We all know what the solutions to these problems are, we've done them in New Jersey in many areas, but we don't have the political will to get them done. And in New Jersey, the reason why they got things done is because I called people into a room and said we're going to solve this problem and I had people of good will on the other side who said they believed it was their obligation, regardless of party, to get done things like pension and benefit reform. That Mayor Redd can tell you personally how it's helping her and her budget situation in Camden. Why the President of the United States refuses to do this is astonishing to me. I mean, you know, if he wanted to run for Senate again and just be 1 of 100, I'm sure he could have gotten reelected over and over again in Illinois. When you're president, it's kind of what I was talking about before, you know 41, 21 and 1, well he's the one in Washington. And he's got to get something done here. And it's not good enough just to say well, I'll get it done after the election.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20111128b.html
