Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie and Lt. Governor Kim Guadagno Encourage New Jerseyans To Shop Locally As Part of "Small Business Saturday'
Press Release
By: Kim Guadagno Chris Christie
Date: Nov. 25, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Today, Governor Chris Christie and Lt. Governor Kim Guadagno encouraged New Jersey residents to take part in the 2nd annual "Small Business Saturday," a nationwide campaign led by American Express to highlight the importance of small business across the United States, this Saturday, November 26, 2011. Residents are encouraged to use the Saturday after Thanksgiving, between "Black Friday" and "Cyber Monday" -- traditionally two of the busiest shopping days of the year -- to shop at small businesses around the state. New Jersey businesses with less than fifty employees make up over 96 percent of all businesses statewide and employ more than 35 percent of our state's workforce, according to Department of Labor & Workforce Development data.
"This Thanksgiving weekend, Mary Pat and our family will join millions to mark the unofficial kick-off of the holiday shopping season," said Governor Christie, who proclaimed this Saturday "Small Business Saturday' in New Jersey. "For thousands of small businesses statewide, this will be a critical period for sales. As the driving force of our ongoing recovery, it's important that we show them our support and appreciation by shopping locally this Saturday. I encourage New Jersey residents to support our small businesses within the state by taking part in this nationwide campaign."
The Christie Administration has made advancing small business assistance and advocacy services an important pillar in its overall economic development strategy, providing over $180 million in targeted tax cuts for New Jersey businesses. Last month, the Administration announced the state was approved by the U.S. Department of Treasury for $33.8 million in funding to further encourage small business lending and job creation. Just last week, the state renewed its partnership with not-for-profit economic development corporation UCEDC to expand the array of training, technical and financial assistance services available to entrepreneurs and small businesses across New Jersey.
"Through the "100 Business Initiative' tour and my ongoing travels throughout the state, I can personally attest that one of New Jersey's greatest assets is our community of small businesses," noted Lt. Governor Guadagno, who leads economic development efforts for the Christie Administration. "I strongly encourage shoppers to support these entrepreneurs on Saturday and throughout the year to help boost local economies by buying at locally owned businesses."

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20111125a.html
