Public Statements
Governor Christie: Service Is What Makes New Jersey Great
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Nov. 23, 2011
Location: Unknown

Governor Chris Christie:
The greatest thing about New Jersey has always been New Jerseyans themselves. To truly understand this, you need only look at the New Jersey heroes we have with us today.
There is Carolyn B.T. Wallace of Newark. Forty years ago, she and her late husband James founded the international youth organization as a way to help kids in Newark. She has dedicated her life to transforming lives through education and community service.
There is Dave Girgenti of Cherry Hill, who three years ago began the wish upon a hero website. Using the power of the internet, he brings wishers and granters of wishes together. In these three short years, the power of Dave's idea has made the wishes of 48,000 people come true.
Tammy Evans-Colquitt of Pennsauken created "image and attitude" in the year 2000 to help improve the self-image of disadvantaged men and women in Camden county. She helped women transitioning from welfare to work and men from incarceration to the workplace. Tammy's hard work has proven once again that no life is disposable and that everyone deserves a second chance.
Jim Benedict of freehold started and runs a lunch kitchen out of St. Peter's church, serving hot meals to 200 people, three days a week. With no formal funding from Government, Jim calls on the generosity of New Jerseyans to feed the hungry. (Benedict told him it was four days a week. Christie said his administration goal would be to make it five)
Finally, Chip Paillex of Pittstown is the founder of America's grow-a-row, a non-profit that feeds the hungry by encouraging the donation of fresh produce to food banks all over new jersey. He started in his own garden and last year, over 700 volunteers donated 225,000 pounds of produce to area food banks.
These folks are just a few examples of what New Jerseyans are all about. When faced with tough problems, you choose hard work over giving up. You rise to the challenge, not shrink from it. For all of us on this stage we must now resolve to use all of you as our example. We in office must not shrink from the challenge, we must rise to it.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20111123a.html
