Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Takes Action to Support Expansion of Quality Charter Schools and Increase School Options for Parents
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Nov. 10, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today signed into law legislation permitting the conversion of nonpublic schools into charter schools, taking further action in his commitment to expand the availability of high quality charter schools as an alternative for children in chronically failing schools.
In addition to the legislation signed today, Governor Christie has proposed a comprehensive education reform agenda to address the biggest challenges facing public education and bring the promise of opportunity to every child in New Jersey. The Governor's agenda, which includes tenure reform, reform of the state's charter law, the Opportunity Scholarship Act, and compensation reform to reward outstanding teachers, continues to remain stalled in the legislature.
"With this legislation signed today, we are taking another step to expand access to high quality school options to ensure that more students are stepping into classrooms that will give them a better education and a brighter future," said Governor Christie. "We have much further to go to reform education in New Jersey and ensure we are getting results for all children, regardless of their zip code. The legislature has failed to act on significant reforms that directly address the problems plaguing our failing schools. It's time for the legislature to act immediately on these measures that sit before them right now: the Opportunity Scholarship Act, the School Children First Act, the Urban Hope Act, and Assembly Bill 4167 to strengthen our charter law. These reforms must be taken up now; we cannot ask children in failing schools to wait any longer while these reforms sit untouched in Trenton."
The bill Governor Christie signed today, A-2806/S-1858, permits high-performing nonpublic schools located in failing school districts to convert to charter schools. The governing body of a qualified nonpublic school would be permitted to submit an application to the Commissioner of Education to convert the school to charter school status. Upon conversion to charter school status, the former students of the converted school will be permitted to enroll in the charter school, with preference for any remaining enrollment spaces for the charter school for its first year, and for all enrollment spaces in each successive year, provided according to existing charter law.
The bill would also permit existing teaching staff and other employees of the converting nonpublic school to continue their employment at the charter school following its conversion, subject to each employee's full compliance with New Jersey certification requirements within two years of the conversion.
The legislation was sponsored by Assemblymembers Mila Jasey (D-Essex) and Albert Coutinho (D-Essex, Union), and Senators Ray Lesniak (D-Union) and Donald Norcross (D-Camden, Gloucester).
The Governor's Education Reform Agenda Remains Stalled in the Legislature, Despite the Urgent Need to Address New Jersey's Education Challenges:
Opportunity Scholarship Act (S-1872/A-2810; Senators Lesniak and Kean/Assemblymen Fuentes and DeCroce): The bill establishes a five-year pilot program to provide tax credits to entities contributing to scholarships for certain low-income students.
School Children First Act (S-2881/A-4168; Senator Kyrillos/Assemblyman Webber): The bill provides for an educator evaluation system based on multiple measures of teacher effectiveness; allows for merit pay; ends the practice of forced placement for teachers; and requires that reductions in staff be made on the basis of effectiveness rather than seniority.
Urban Hope Act (S-3002/A-4264; Senator Norcross/Assemblyman Fuentes): The bill provides for the creation of as many as ten "transformation school projects" in the State's five worst performing districts.
Charter Reform Bill (A-4167; Assemblyman Webber): The bill provides critical updates to strengthen and improve New Jersey's charter law. The bill increases the number of charter school authorizers, permits public

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20111110f.html
