Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Delivers $190 Million Tax Cut for New Jersey Families
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 17, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today announced a $190 million payroll tax cut that will directly benefit working New Jersey families in 2012. Most workers in New Jersey will experience a savings of $87 per year, resulting from changes to the Temporary Disability Insurance fund payroll taxes signed into law by the Governor. Governor Christie has prioritized economic growth and tax relief for families as part of a pro-growth agenda to create Jersey Jobs and create opportunity for New Jerseyans.
Governor Christie made the announcement at a town hall with employees of Kearfott Guidance & Navigation, a company founded in 1917, now with 235+ employees, that manufactures guidance systems used in space shuttles, satellites, under sea oil exploration and radar equipment, in Little Falls. The company was impacted by flooding caused as a result of Hurricane Irene, experiencing over two feet of water in their plant. After one week, they were back and operating at 90 percent capacity.
By providing direct tax relief to families, fundamental property tax reform, job-creating business tax cuts and incentives, common sense regulatory reform, and certainty about the state's climate for business investment and expansion, Governor Christie has positioned New Jersey for economic growth and the creation of Jersey Jobs. With 45,000 private sector jobs created since taking office, Governor Christie's agenda has already begun producing results for New Jerseyans.
"By prioritizing economic growth and taking concrete steps to improve our state's climate for business growth and job creation, we are finally getting New Jersey back on the right track and creating Jersey Jobs, while also providing critical tax relief for our state's overburdened families. $190 million in direct tax relief will go directly into the pockets of working families and back into our economy, further spurring growth and job creation around the state," said Governor Christie. "Taken together with $57 million in payroll tax relief we provided this year in worker contributions to the Family Leave Insurance Program, this means we are delivering nearly $250 million in relief to New Jerseyans over the course of 2012."










Source:
