Public Statements
Christie Administration Announces Church & Dwight Decision to Stay in New Jersey, Expand Operations and Create Hundreds of New Jobs
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 11, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie and Lt. Governor Kim Guadagno today joined global industry leader Church & Dwight to announce the company's decision to build their new global headquarters in Ewing Township, further expanding their manufacturing and R&D footprint in the State. The company's decision to stay and expand in New Jersey, a result of the Christie Administration's pro-growth agenda and policies, means that nearly 1,000 jobs will be kept in the state, 130 new permanent jobs will be created, and hundreds of construction jobs will be created for the project.
"Church & Dwight has been an important part of New Jersey's family of businesses for over three decades. This project directly benefits New Jerseyans by keeping nearly 1,000 jobs here, creating 130 new permanent jobs and hundreds of construction jobs. Across our state, job creators like Church & Dwight are responding to the positive changes we are making to grow our economy, while turning around the negative climate for job creators," said Governor Christie. "Creating good paying, long term jobs for New Jerseyans is a top priority of my Administration, which is why we secured $2.35 billion in job creating tax cuts, expanded business incentive programs, refused to raise taxes and removed regulatory barriers to growth in a common sense way."
Church & Dwight's new corporate campus will include two 125,000-square-foot Class A, energy-efficient office buildings that will be designed and constructed with sustainable practices and elements. The buildings will be connected to allow for employee engagement and interaction. Construction is slated to commence in mid-October and the buildings are expected to be completed by the end of 2012. In addition to this new corporate center, the company remains committed to the Princeton location, which will become its new research & development center. The company also expects to increase the capacity and expand the manufacturing facility in Lakewood, New Jersey.
"Our ongoing efforts to foster new and innovative incentives to meet today's economic realities proved critical to retaining Church & Dwight in New Jersey," said Lt. Governor Kim Guadagno. "As we continue to improve the State's business climate and heighten our competitiveness, the message is clear: nobody will outwork us as we work to spur job creation in New Jersey. The Governor and I will continue working every day to secure successes like this today to expand opportunity to New Jersey families."
"Church & Dwight has experienced significant growth over the past 10 years and our headquarters in Princeton has grown to a level that is now bursting," said James R. Craigie, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Church & Dwight. "I commend the pro-business efforts of Governor Christie's Administration and the incredible customer service that we received throughout our decision-making process. That coupled with the incentives is what our company needed to maintain our headquarters in New Jersey and keep our employees in the state. We look forward to continue to grow Church & Dwight in the state of New Jersey."
Church & Dwight Co., Inc., founded in 1846, manufactures and markets a wide range of personal care, household and specialty products, under the ARM & HAMMER brand name and other trademarks.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20111011a.html
