Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Outlines Education Reform Agenda Centered on Four Building Blocks for Success in New Jersey's Schools
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 12, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Furthering his commitment to bold education reform, Governor Chris Christie today called the initial report of the Education Transformation Task Force a strong first step in the process to develop a new accountability system for New Jersey schools, and to reduce the regulatory burden in order to make it easier for schools and educators to focus their efforts on innovation and results for children. These recommendations, to be followed by a final report submitted by the Task Force on December 31, 2011, constitute a critical element of the Governor's focus on four Building Blocks for Success in New Jersey's Schools, including reforms to address performance and accountability, academics and standards, talent, and innovation in New Jersey's education system.
"This report confirms that we need to provide a new accountability system that works for our educators and students, and that sensibly moves us toward a system that values educational results over bureaucratic red tape," said Governor Christie. "Every aspect of our education system must be centered around ensuring that every one of our children has the opportunity to get an effective education that prepares them for a successful future. These recommended changes to our accountability system mark a first step toward additional education reforms that we will be pursuing to modernize the fundamentals of our education system and our schools."
The Task Force was commissioned by Governor Christie to take an unflinching and candid look at how well New Jersey's education system was meeting its primary goal of helping all students graduate from high school ready for college and the workforce. Its two basic tasks were to examine ways to eliminate burdensome regulations so that New Jersey's educators will be given the freedom they need to employ the best strategies in the classroom, and to review accountability systems, including the state's Quality Single Accountability Continuum (QSAC) and federal No Child Left Behind (NCLB) law.
The report provided recommendations to fundamentally reform the accountability system in state education by moving to a single, streamlined system, focusing on what matters most - student learning - and eliminating deficiencies in the two current accountability systems of QSAC and NCLB for New Jersey schools. The changes, which would be sought through a federal waiver of NCLB and statutory changes, will replace the current accountability scheme in New Jersey with a system more meaningful in its measures and assessments and less administratively burdensome for districts. The initial report represents a first step towards this reform, with recommendations that outline key challenges with the existing system and guidance for moving forward with the development of a new system.
The report also includes 45 specific recommendations to reduce red tape in New Jersey's public education system, changes that will help schools to streamline their operations and focus every possible resource on critical priorities like student learning and performance, rather than compliance. The result will mean schools are less focused on regulatory compliance and more focused on efforts and innovations that help all of New Jersey's children receive the great education they deserve.
"State government should be in the business of supporting the great work being done in the vast majority of our state's schools, rather than just overseeing a web of rules and regulations that monopolize time, energy and resources from our educators," added Governor Christie. "The 45 regulations identified for elimination in this report are a down payment on this reform to our state's teachers and administrators and an indication of my Administration's commitment to getting out of the way of excellent schools and prioritizing classroom results over paperwork, while still ensuring that standards and accountability are high and that the safety and fiscal integrity of our education system are uncompromised."
"Alleviating onerous regulations will give school leaders the flexibility they need to drive innovation in the classroom and deliver quality educational outcomes for New Jersey's 1.4 million students," said Department of Education Acting Commissioner Christopher Cerf. "To do that we must refine the partnership between accountability for results and the empowerment of educators to determine the right strategies to achieve those results."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110912a.html
