Public Statements
Transcript: Conference Call with FEMA and New Jersey OEM Officials on Hurricane Irene Recovery Efforts
Press Conference
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 2, 2011
Location: Unknown

William "Bill" Vogel, Federal Coordinating Officer, Federal Emergency Management Agency:
Thanks everybody, I'm happy to be here and happy to be working with New Jersey. I want to start off by saying it's a real pleasure to come into a state where the partnership in terms of federal, state, local, and private agencies have really worked hard for the whole community to be able to support any ongoing requirements for those survivors who may have been affected by the terrible hurricane that we experienced last week.
I just want to let you know that we're happy that the President signed a major presidential declaration very quickly and what that did was open up funding for New Jersey to receive federal funds for two different programs. One of them is called public assistance, the other is individual assistance.
Public assistance takes care of all of infrastructure, buildings, highways, bridges, water control facilities, parks, and public buildings. Individual assistance, as very well stated, takes care of all of the individual homeowners and all of the personnel who are living in the State of New Jersey.
Now, there's a dollar threshold that is associated with public assistance, which makes it very simple to turn a county on for eligibility for infrastructure repairs. This year, that threshold is $3.27 per capita, per county. So, if the county population, time $3.27 is exceeded in the amount of damage, that county will be eligible for public assistance.
Individual assistance on the other hand, is a different process, where we go through a community, jointly with the State. The State determines the priorities on how it is we're going to organize our teams and where it is we are going to go and do the inspections based on the severity of the damage throughout the State.



Source:
