Public Statements
Governor Christie Takes Action to Mitigate Anticipated Passaic River Basin Flooding from Hurricane Irene
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 26, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie this afternoon announced that the Ramapo River floodgates are being opened to try to mitigate the anticipated flood impacts of Hurricane Irene.
"Opening the Pompton floodgates will provide only very limited benefit in terms of flood mitigation, but we're trying something new because we have to do everything we can," said Governor Christie. "Everyone needs to understand that when we have a rain event of the magnitude we expect this weekend, the Passaic River Basin is going to flood -- above and below the floodgates."
The floodgates will be open approximately 1.5 feet to draw down Pompton Lake by three feet below the spillway crest by this evening. This will achieve a peak water discharge of 2,500 cubic feet per second (cfs), keeping the river within its banks downstream before any rain comes. A higher rate of discharge would cause the river to overflow its banks even before any rain falls.
The floodgates typically operate automatically in response to conditions, but the Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) has been on-site since midday to adjust the floodgates manually ahead of the hurricane. DEP engineers will remain on-site as long as they are needed to ensure that the automatic floodgate functions are operational after the manual adjustment.
Governor Christie personally informed local mayors today that the floodgates would be opened. On a conference call this morning with DEP Commissioner Bob Martin, the Governor told the mayors to expect that stretches of the Ramapo and Pompton Rivers will approach top-of-bank prior to significant rainfall as the release continues.
The New Jersey Office of Emergency Management (OEM) is coordinating with the local Offices of Emergency Management to prepare for any evacuations that may become necessary.

Source:
