Public Statements
Governor Christie Seeks Federal Disaster Aid for Flood-Impacted Areas from Weekend Storms and Farmers Impacted from Months of Difficult Weather
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 22, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie announced today that the State is seeking a Major Disaster Declaration for New Jersey counties impacted by heavy rain storms and flooding which began on August 13, 2011. Rainfall totals exceeded 11 inches in some areas of Southern New Jersey. A letter outlining the State's application was sent to President Barack Obama through the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
"Based on the information and data available, it is evident that the disaster is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and the affected local governments and that federal assistance is necessary," said Governor Christie. "While New Jersey is accustomed to emergencies arising from severe weather conditions, the scope and intensity of this storm were unprecedented. Today, we are taking the next steps needed to assist New Jerseyans in these affected counties and ensure that we get every dollar of additional aid to the areas where we need it most."
State-Federal Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment (PDA) Teams have been working in the impacted counties since last week and will remain focused on determining the total cost of the storm's impact.
The State identified Cumberland, Gloucester and Salem Counties specifically for federal assistance, but left open the possibility of adding counties after the Joint PDA's are completed. Federal assistance may be available for infrastructure, public property damage, hazard mitigation, or direct assistance to residents in the form of grants or loans.
In addition, Governor Christie also sent a letter today to United States Secretary of Agriculture Thomas Vilsack, requesting the issuance of a natural disaster designation for damages incurred during the 2011 growing season in seventeen counties across New Jersey. These damages, in addition to some localized loss of livestock, were caused by excessive rain, high winds, localized flooding and extreme heat.
"Severe weather conditions that commenced on May 14, 2011 and continue to this day have adversely impacted New Jersey farmers this growing season, causing substantial crop damage," said Governor Christie in his letter to Secretary Vilsack. "A natural disaster designation will enable New Jersey farmers to apply for emergency loans from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency and for other relief that may be made available from the federal government."
The disaster designation request covers losses from May 14, 2011 to present. Atlantic, Burlington, Camden, Cape May, Cumberland, Gloucester, Hunterdon, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Morris, Ocean, Salem, Somerset, Sussex, Union and Warren counties were included in the request after the U.S. Department of Agriculture's State Emergency Board review of Loss Assessment Reports submitted by each county.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110822c.html
