Public Statements
Governor Christie Signs Legislation To Preserve New Jersey History
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 16, 2011
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: Well thank you all very much. Thank you for being here. From the time of the Revolutionary War and the Underground Railroad to Thomas Edison and Alice Paul, the people and the places of our state have been the nucleus of many of our country's most significant historical events. Here in Mount Laurel at Paulsdale, Alice Paul secured her name in history as all of you know. She was first introduced to the women's suffrage movement in New Jersey by her mother who often brought Alice to meetings. And it's here where she developed her sense of activism and drive to secure equal rights for women, which eventually led to the successful campaign that resulted in the passage of the 19th amendment, giving women the right to vote. It's thanks to her courage, her dedication, that equal rights for women were finally secured in the ballot box. We want to make sure her story continues to be told and to be preserved for future generations which is why today we're ensuring that New Jersey's storied past remains vibrant and accessible for years to come. The legislation I'm signing and just did sign, will provide ten million dollars to help the New Jersey Historic Trust preserve 58 historic sites around New Jersey. Of the projects to be funded, 945,000 dollars will be used to provide historic site management grants for 29 projects in 13 counties. These grants support non construction activities, such as long term operations planning and programs, including building assessments and archeological investigations and educational campaigns as well. This includes places that are such a part of our history. Places like Destination Paulsdale and Sunnyside Farm here in Mount Laurel, Joseph Cooper House in Camden, the Grover Cleveland birthplace in Caldwell, Fort Hancock barracks in Middletown and the rest of the funding, 9.3 million dollars will go to capital preservation grants for the restoration and rehabilitation of historic resources for new or continued active use and two different levels of projects. There's a level one capital project, those are 12 projects in eight counties. And examples of those are the James and Anne Whitehall House in National Park borough and Cumberland National Bank in Bridgeton. Then there's level two grant recipients and those are 17 projects in eight counties. And some examples of those are the Ocean City Life Saving Station in Ocean City and the Foster Fields Living Historical Farm in Morris Township which right down the street from where I live and pass almost every day coming to and from work. So I understand living in a place like Morris County, that while there's history all across New Jersey, I am partial to where I live, like most of us are and there's a lot of history in Morris County and Foster Fields is one of those places. So it's important to recognize that rehabilitating our historic treasures serves an economic purpose in addition to attracting tourism, spurring neighborhood revitalization and encouraging economic growth in our state. Along with a very laudable part of having it available to teach our children and their children about the history of this state. I want to commend the Historic Trust for their work including the projects we've announced today. The Trust has awarded more than 135 million dollars in 697 matching grants since 1990. Preserving these cultural and historical sites is critical to ensuring that future generations have the opportunity to learn more about New Jersey's place in history. Again, this is another example of the things I've been talking about for the last month where there's bipartisan support across the legislature. Senator Addiego, Assemblyman Rudder are here, Assembly Milam is here. Republicans and Democrats who understand that preserving New Jersey's history, both for our cultural future and our economic future is not a partisan issue, and not something that should be bickered over by people just because we're in opposite parties. We have Congressman Runyan here today, who has been experiencing the type of partisan bickering that goes on when people are not working with each other. We know that he is somebody that has always been a team player, someone who understands what it's like to have to work withdid you ever have anybody on the Eagles from Ohio State that you actually had to play with, work with? Yeah so see there you go. I mean if Runyan, a Michigan man, could actually work with an Ohio State guy, can't Republicans and Democrats get along? I mean really, I'm sure John was thinking that many times in his first few months in Congress. So these things, actions like the ones we're taking today are bipartisan in nature, that's why I appreciate Senator Addiego and Assemblyman Rudder being here and Assemblyman Milam being here to show that we can work together for things that are for the greater New Jersey purpose and that's all very important, really important. Whoever leaned on the light, you're going to have to turn it back on. Happens, don't worry about it. Also I want to thank all of you who have worked so hard on these historical issues, cultural issues over time. It is a difficult budget time in our state, has been for years. And with the leadership of folks like Commissioner Grifa at the DCA who is trying to make the best use of the resources that she has available to her to make to make sure that they have the greatest effect on the people and institutions of our state. We're doing the best we can. We know that at times it means that we can't say yes to everything that you'd like us to do and we take no joy in that. But we have a real sense of responsibility that our job first and foremost is to be an effective and trusted steward of that tax money that the people of this state give to us especially during these really difficult economic times that they believe that the people at the head of this government take seriously that the expenditure of any tax dollars are to be taken with great care. And we're not always perfect about that. And there will be mistakes that are made but it doesn't mean that that gives us an excuse for ever stopping trying to do the best we possibly can. And so I sign this bill today with real sense of satisfaction that we've met those criteria. That this is something the people of New Jersey really want us to do. Something they believe in and something they're willing to take their hard earned dollars out of their pocket and put on the table for the collective good. That's why you see Republicans and Democrats together on this issue because it is for the un-inarguable public good. And so I want to thank all of you for your efforts, you help to bring this to the floor for us. You help to make sure that we don't forget when we get our green eye shades on at times which we have to do that there are also big issues to be concerned about too. And what is our future going to look like, not only fiscally, but once we survive this difficult period, what's our culture going to look like when we get on the other side. What will our children's and our grandchildren's sense of history be? If you live in this state, you have to have a great sense of the history of this country, we were integral to its creation and we must always be a place where people can come to reflect and appreciate on all that is truly extraordinary about America and about being Americans. And I can tell you that I believe that this is one of those things that we have to find the resources to do to be able to continue on with this type of effort.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110816a.html
