Public Statements
Governor Christie Signs Legislation To Preserve New Jersey History
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 15, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Safeguarding New Jersey's legacy for future generations, Governor Chris Christie today signed legislation securing more than $10 million to help preserve 58 historic sites throughout the Garden State. The Governor signed S-2898 in Mount Laurel at Paulsdale, the residence of suffragette and noted New Jerseyan Alice Paul. The home is on the New Jersey and National Registers of Historic Places and is a designated National Historic Landmark.
"From the Revolutionary War and the Underground Railroad to Thomas Edison and Alice Paul, New Jersey has been the nucleus of many of our nation's most significant historical events," said Governor Christie. "Preserving these cultural and historic sites is critical to ensuring that future generations have the opportunity to learn more about New Jersey's place in history. I am proud to sign this legislation to help the New Jersey Historic Trust rehabilitate these wonderful places, which ultimately will attract tourism, spur neighborhood revitalization and encourage economic growth in our state."
The grants will be awarded and administered by the New Jersey Historic Trust, an affiliate of the New Jersey Department of Community Affairs (DCA). Eligible projects are funded under several categories. Of the projects to be funded, $945,996 will be used to provide Historic Site Management Grants for 29 projects in 13 counties. These grants have a maximum award of $50,000 to support non-construction activities such as long-term operations planning and programs including building assessments, archaeology investigations and educational campaigns.
In the category of Capital Preservation Grants, $9,304,784 will be used for the restoration and rehabilitation of historic resources for new or continued active use. These properties must be listed or eligible for listing in the State or National Register of Historic Places. There are two levels of Capital Preservation Grants: Level 1 recipients will receive grants of $5,000 to $150,000 and Level II recipients will receive grants of $150,001 to $750,000. Level 1 grants are being awarded for 12 projects in 8 counties while Level II recipients represent 17 projects in 8 counties throughout the state.
"Historic places enhance New Jersey's image as a vacation destination. These sites tap into people's desire to learn something new and they capitalize on the trend of people taking trips closer to home," said DCA Commissioner Lori Grifa. "Historic attractions also often bring developers to the area, which can lead to new economic opportunities."
This year's grant recipients were previously approved by the New Jersey Historic Trust Board of Trustees and the Garden State Preservation Trust. Funding for the grants comes from the Garden State Preservation Trust Fund, which was created to preserve open space, farmland and historic sites and to encourage joint preservation efforts by the public and private sectors. In 2007 and in 2009, voters approved referendums to provide additional money to the Trust Fund. Including today's announced projects, the Historic Trust has awarded more than $135 million in 697 matching grants since 1990.
Established in 1967, the New Jersey Historic Trust is the only nonprofit historic preservation organization in New Jersey created by state law. The Trust officially became a DCA affiliate in November 2002. Its mission is to advance historic preservation in New Jersey for the benefit of future generations through education, stewardship and financial investment programs that save New Jersey heritage and strengthen the state's communities.
Legislative sponsors include Senators Robert M. Gordon (D-Bergen) and Diane B. Allen (R-Burlington, Camden) and Assemblymembers Matthew W. Milam (D-Cape May, Atlantic, Cumberland), Nelson T. Albano (D-Cape May, Atlantic, Cumberland), Herb Conaway, Jr. (D-Burlington, Camden), Joseph Cryan (D-Union), Annette Quijano (D-Union) and Nellie Pou, (D-Bergen, Passaic).
For more information on the New Jersey Historic Trust, log on to http://www.njht.org/

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110815a.html
