Public Statements
Governor Christie Underscores Significance of Healthy Beach Environment to Thriving Shore Economy in Visit to Belmar
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 10, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Reaffirming his strong commitment to protecting New Jersey's coastal treasures and the shore economy, Governor Chris Christie today visited Belmar, making stops along the one-mile boardwalk to underscore the importance of healthy beaches and water to a vigorous tourism industry.
"Belmar is a timeless Jersey Shore classic -- one that visitors and residents enjoy year after year to swim, sun and surf," said Governor Christie. "Safeguarding the health of our waterways and beaches is a responsibility we are all entrusted with to ensure these natural resources exist for our children and future generations. Doing so encourages the viability of our vast tourism industry and promotes the Garden State as a thriving tourism destination."
Governor Christie is steadfast in his commitment to protect the Jersey Shore, its beaches, water quality, and businesses. He has taken action to keep all parks, historic sites and wildlife operations running; restored beach replenishment funding to its full level; opposed off-shore drilling in New Jersey, as well as drilling off the coast of other states that could negatively impact New Jersey's water and beaches, and has also opposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities off of New Jersey's coastline.
Last week, the Governor signed legislation that secures safe and clean water infrastructure for the Garden State, providing $650 million in no-cost and low-cost loans for projects to enhance water quality across New Jersey. In Monmouth County alone, $27 million has been designated for seven water quality improvement projects. He also signed Green Acres legislation that makes nearly $157 million available for important open-space acquisition and recreational development projects across the Garden State, including preservation of open space and development of parks in Monmouth County.
In terms of transportation infrastructure enhancements, the Administration has provided assistance for improvements to 13th Avenue and made safety upgrades to the Main Street Bridge over the Shark River between Belmar and Avon by the Sea.
New Jersey's tourism industry posted $35.5 billion in total expenditures in 2010, representing an increase of 0.8 percent over 2009 and the first improvement since the industry's pre-recession high set in 2007. The shore economy is a critical aspect of the state's overall tourism economy representing 193,000 private sector jobs and over $6 billion in wages and salaries in 2010 across Atlantic, Cape May, Monmouth and Ocean counties.
Belmar is the first stop in a week of visits Governor Christie is making to the Jersey Shore to focus on the health of New Jersey's beaches, the ocean's water quality and the vast shore economy these natural resources support.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110810b.html
