Public Statements
"Skip the Trip" Initiative Further Demonstrates Christie Administration Leading MVC into the Future
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 4, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Technology upgrades, enhanced security operations and expanded services are the foundation of the Christie Administration's plan to help customers avoid unnecessary trips to their local Motor Vehicle Commission (MVC) agencies. The modernizations are at the forefront of the MVC's future technology investments to streamline operations and enhance customer service. In testimony before the legislature, MVC Chief Ray Martinez detailed Christie Administration initiatives currently ongoing at the Commission to heighten security, improve New Jerseyans' experience and innovate operations to provide online and mail-based accommodations for routine services.
MVC Chief Martinez announced plans to introduce drivers license renewals by mail during 2012 and on-line before the end of 2012. This will make it so that drivers will only need to visit a MVC facility once every eight years, to obtain a new photo as required by federal law. The MVC estimates that some 1 million people will not have to wait in lines at agencies once these improvements are implemented.
"By investing in new technology, expanding services and introducing new security-enhanced digital driver licenses to prevent fraud and abuse, the MVC continues to move New Jersey into the future with key technological advancements that provide residents with the services they need and the convenience of online and mail-in alternatives to in person visits. "Skip the Trip' means shorter wait times, shorter lines and a better experience for New Jerseyans," said Governor Chris Christie. "Consistent with our goals to make state government run more efficiently and effectively, we are taking the steps to ensure that the public's needs are met in a timely and responsive manner today, and that we are fully prepared to meet the Commission's customer service needs of tomorrow."
In testimony before a special meeting of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee, MVC Chief Ray Martinez said the Commission was aware of the challenges and concerns of customers and that these issues were being addressed in both the near and long terms.
"The MVC is in a period of transition as we move forward to directly address New Jerseyans' needs and concerns with enhanced technology that will improve the overall experience of utilizing MVC services," said Martinez, also noting that the MVC had already begun to take steps to address their concerns.
Martinez explained that while the MVC moves forward with its $50+ million Motor Vehicle Automated Transaction System (MATRX) project, the MVC is exploring ways to begin an initial Central Issuance program by early 2012.
"While MATRX is the foundation of what will become a much more flexible way of doing business and gives us the ability to offer a myriad of online services, even a mail-in version of Central Issuance will help motorists in need of a license renewal to "Skip the Trip," said Martinez. "This is evidence that the MVC will continually evaluate the customer experience and that we are a dynamic agency that can and will make the necessary adjustments to better serve the motoring public."
Martinez noted that New Jersey is one of only seven states in the country that does not utilize some form of Central Issuance.
The MVC is doing more than relying on technology upgrades to solve the growing wait times at agencies, Martinez said. Starting just last month, the MVC began an unprecedented 20 percent increase in agency service hours and the launch of a Customer Service initiative to obtain feedback and suggestions from customers.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110804a.html
