Public Statements
Governor Christie Builds on Commitment to Protect New Jersey's Environment, Signs Legislation to Protect Open Space and Recreational Development in the Garden State
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 3, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Further demonstrating his commitment to the environment and an improved quality of life for Garden State residents, Governor Chris Christie today signed a series of bills that protects Green Acres open-space acquisition and recreational development throughout the state. The legislation also makes available $157 million for projects in all of New Jersey's 21 counties including preservation projects in the Highlands, the Barnegat Bay watershed, and urban waterfronts.
"I am pleased to sign legislation today that reaffirms my Administration's commitment to protecting New Jersey's open spaces and natural resources," said Governor Chris Christie. "These bills continue the Garden State's proud tradition as a nationally recognized leader in land conservation efforts and will further assist Commissioner Martin and the DEP to fund a wide variety of worthy projects critical to sustaining a high quality of life in the nation's most densely populated state."
Through the three bills, S-2857 provides $84.5 million for grants and loans to municipal and county governments for land acquisitions and park developments; S-2858 makes available $14.8 million to assist nonprofit groups for acquisitions and park development; and S-2859 designates $57 million for state Green Acres acquisitions to expand and develop state parks, forests and wildlife management areas, as well as purchase properties in flood-prone areas through Blue Acres acquisitions.
"New Jersey's land preservation record is second to none," said DEP Commissioner Bob Martin. "For 50 years, the Green Acres Program has been reaching into New Jersey's communities, funding a great diversity of projects such as ballparks, playgrounds and places to watch wildlife that make our state a great place to call home."
Green Acres project funding is derived from money generated by voter approval of a previous bond referendum, supplemented by money from prior projects that were cancelled by the DEP or withdrawn by applicants. Green Acres funding leverages many millions of additional preservation dollars through matching federal, state, county, local and nonprofit money.















Source:
