Public Statements
Governor Christie: We Make These Difficult Choices Because We Have To
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 1, 2011
Location: Unknown

Transcript of Governor Christie's Remarks in Hasbrouck Heights:
Governor Chris Christie: So, governing's about choosing. And we cut a billion three out of the state budget using the line item veto and we did it because we can no longer go back to the days where all we do is spend and spend and spend in Trenton. I tell people all the time what my mother used to say to me when we were growing up and I wanted something new. And she'd look at me and say, sure, Chris, you can have that, no problem. It's my lucky day, this is great. So she's say just go out to the backyard to the money tree and pick the money off the money tree and you can use that. I'd look at her and say, mom, we don't have a money tree. She'd say exactly. Exactly. And for too long Trenton were treating you like the money tree. Every time we wanted more money we'd go and pick it right out of your pocket. And we have to stop the days of doing that. So yeah it's about choices, and there will be people who disagree with some of the choices that I make and even you may disagree with some of the choices that I made but understand why I'm doing this. I'm doing this because I want to protect our children, give them the best education we can. I want to protect our seniors and make sure that they continue to live in New Jersey and be a part of the fabric of this state. I want to protect the underprivileged who need to go to hospitals and get other government-assisted health care to make sure those programs are funded. Those are the decisions that we have to make in these difficult times and it means some other stuff we'd like to do is gonna have to get cut and put to the side. Because you do the same thing in your home. You can't have everything you want to have right now because of these difficult economic times. And I certainly cannot ask you to do something that we're unwilling to do ourselves, the government. So we make these difficult choices not because we love to, we make these difficult choices because we have to.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110801d.html
