Public Statements
Governor Christie Recommends Changes to S-799 to Balance Needs of Adopted Children, Birth Parents and Adoptive Parents
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 30, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Commending legislative sponsors for their courageous leadership and reform work on the issue of adoption records access, Governor Chris Christie today conditionally vetoed S-799 to provide common sense changes that address both privacy and access concerns in the legislation. The revisions suggested by the Governor aim to provide additional safeguards that balance the needs of adoptees seeking the identity of their biological parents with the expectations of birth parents who may wish for their identities to remain private.
"The decision of any biological parent to seek adoptive parents for a child is an enormously complicated choice and the protections of anonymity can be a significant consideration when choosing adoption," Governor Christie said. "Yet I also strongly empathize with the adopted child, and adoptive parents, who may long to know the identity of the birth parents."
"After closely studying the bill, and listening to the many sound and sincere ideas for reform, I agree with the sponsors that it is time for a new approach to adoption records in New Jersey that eliminates the burdensome requirement of obtaining a court order to access basic familial information. While the goals of their legislation are laudable, I do believe the administrative structure used to implement those reforms must be carefully constructed to avoid any unwanted breaches of privacy, and the potential chilling effect on adoptions," the Governor added.
Governor Christie's revisions to S-799 provide expanded access to family information while ensuring privacy in adoptions. First, the recommendations allow an adoptee to obtain an original birth certificate without involvement from the courts. Moreover, the adoptee would be able to enlist the services of a confidential intermediary at an approved adoption agency to conduct the search for the birth parents, and obtain consent for additional contact. If a birth parent chooses not to consent to a release of the child's original birth certificate, the birth parent may alternatively provide the confidential intermediary with family medical history information. In cases where an approved intermediary cannot locate a birth parent following a twelve month investigation, the State may release the original birth certificate to the adoptee if desired.
Additionally, for future adoptions, birth parents would be required to submit an information statement to memorialize a birth parent's preferences for future communication with the adopted child: complete information sharing, sharing via an intermediary, or sharing only non-identifying medical information.
Sponsors of S-799 include Senators Joseph F. Vitale (D-Middlesex), Diane B. Allen (R-Burlington), and Loretta Weinberg (D-Bergen).

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110623a.html
