Public Statements
Governor Christie Takes Action to Streamline State Government Through Common Sense Reorganization Plans
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 29, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Continuing his commitment to making state government smaller, more efficient and cost effective for New Jersey taxpayers, Governor Chris Christie today filed reorganization plans that transfer, eliminate or better position the operation of five units within state government. The plans streamline government operations through common sense reorganization of some Executive Branch functions, including the abolition of the Council on Affordable Housing (COAH) and transfer of its responsibilities to the Department of Community Affairs. The move marks another step toward achieving Governor Christie's commitment to real affordable housing reform.
"Managing state government to ensure that programs and services are delivered to our citizens in the most efficient, cost-effective manner possible is a key priority of this Administration," said Governor Christie. "We are following through on this responsibility to make government run more efficiently and work better for all New Jerseyans. A crucial step in this process is the elimination of COAH and the transfer of its functions to a department which already supports our local governments and works closely with them on a daily basis. I've always believed that municipalities should be able to make their own decisions on affordable housing without being micromanaged and second guessed from Trenton. The Department of Community Affairs will work with municipalities on affordable housing, not against them."
Altogether, the reorganizations represent additional progress in the ongoing efforts of the Christie Administration to streamline operations to organize, consolidate and coordinate agencies and functions of the Executive Branch according to major purposes in order to promote better execution of the laws and a more effective use of limited public resources.
"Through these reorganizations, we are eliminating duplicative efforts, consolidating functions, increasing efficiencies and reducing unnecessary spending in our continuing efforts to ensure that New Jersey's overburdened taxpayers have the lean, efficient and well-organized government they deserve," concluded Governor Christie.
The restructurings consist of:
* Reorganization Plan No. 001-2011, which eliminates the Council on Affordable Housing, transferring its functions and duties to the Department of Community Affairs. The move implements recommendations of the Red Tape Review Group created by Executive Order No. 3, reducing costs and promoting more efficient operations of the burdensome regulatory agency. The elimination of COAH is also consistent with the recommendations of the Housing Opportunity Task Force created by Executive Order No.12. Download Now [PDF]
* Reorganization Plan No. 002-2011, which transfers the State Planning Commission and the Office of Smart Growth from the Department of Community Affairs to the Department of State. The shift will promote greater efficiency and effectiveness of planning for economic growth and coordination responsibilities of these state planning entities. Download Now [PDF]
* Reorganization Plan No. 003-2011, which moves the Business Retention and Attraction Division of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority to the Department of State. The transfer will promote more efficient operations while streamlining the management and implementation of important business-related priorities to create jobs in New Jersey. Download Now [PDF]
* Reorganization Plan No. 004-2011, which relocates the Amistad Commission from the Department of State to the Department of Education. Since the Commission is charged with assisting educators in implementing a history curriculum about the African slave trade and slavery in America and New Jersey, this move will improve efficiency and quality in the performance of its responsibilities. Download Now [PDF]
* Reorganization Plan No. 005-2011, which eliminates the New Jersey Commission on Higher Education and transfers the powers, functions and duties of the Commission to the Secretary of Higher Education. The plan furthers the recommendations of the New Jersey Higher Education Task Force created by Executive Order No. 26 chaired by Governor Thomas H. Kean. In its December 2010 report, the Task Force specifically noted the immediate need for reform of the State's higher education governance structure to improve coordination, effectiveness, and accountability in service of New Jersey's students and residents. Governor Christie appointed Rochelle Hendricks Secretary of Higher Education on May 12, 2011. The Secretary of Higher Education is supported by the Governor's Higher Education Council created by Executive Order No. 52.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110629d.html
