Public Statements
Governor Christie Signs Bipartisan Pension & Health Benefits Reform Bill
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 28, 2011
Location: Unknown

Afternoon. Welcome. It is an important moment for the State of the New Jersey, for its citizens, its taxpayers, and New Jersey has once again become a model for America. The reforms that we sign today not only will save at least $132 billion over the next 30 years for the taxpayers of New Jersey, but just as importantly are an assurance to the hard working men and women in government all across New Jersey that when the time comes for them to retire their pension will be there for them to collect, and the health insurance that they will need to cover them through their retirement years will be there and affordable for them at that time.
Both of those promises were the goals of this legislation. Both of those promises are important for us to keep faith with the people that we serve. As I am sure is one of the understatements of my administration it was not easy. This took extraordinary effort on everyone's part who are standing here. I want to thank all of the mayors that you see standing behind us. Republicans and Democrats, urban, suburban, and rural mayors, all of them, all of them, put the interest of their citizens ahead of their own personal political interests. And so to all of them I want to say thank you for their leadership and their courage and their support and they deserve a round of applause as well.
These folks are going to speak later but I want to speak about each of them first. Senator Kean has been a steadfast supporter of these reforms right from the first time we spoke about them. He worked hard along with the other members of his leadership team in the Senate to make sure that the Republican Senators' issues were addressed and dealt with. He kept the caucus together, united and strong, to make the vote that needed to be made last Monday, and again this past Monday. And so for his leadership and support and most importantly to me his friendship, I want to thank Senator Kean very, very much.
The Republican leader in the Assembly Alex DeCroce deserves exactly the same type of credit, keeping double the amount of people in line as Tom did, making sure that they remained informed and had the right to debate and discuss the issues but ultimately putting history ahead of politics. Assemblyman DeCroce, who is someone whom I've known from my very first moment in public life, has stood as a strong and able public servant and a good and decent friend to me and all the people that he serves, Assemblyman DeCroce thank you very much.
The Speaker of the Assembly could not be here today to talk about this due to a scheduling conflict, but I want to thank Sheila Oliver for her courage and her support of this legislation. She stood up when only a minority of her caucus members were in support of this legislation. She posted the bill, she voted for it herself, and she made it happen. And so while I've said this to Sheila privately I want to say it publicly: she displayed extraordinary political courage for what she has done and I absolutely believe that there will be more moments of her public career when she looks back on it years from now. I'm sorry she couldn't be with us today, but I did not want the event to go by without publicly saying thank you. I thank her for her leadership and her support.
And finally both in introduction and to know my partner the Senate President, you know there's very few things in this job that we accomplished that I'll say, that I'll admit, that Steve Sweeney talked about first before I got here. I tried to act as his muse and inspiration in this job. But in fairness, the Senate President has been talking about this problem and these issues since 2006, and at a time when no one in New Jersey was discussing this. At a time when no one was willing to be bold enough to step out front and say this needed to be changed, that we were careening towards insolvency. That we were incurring the taxpayers and cheating the very people who were the beneficiaries of this system. No one else had the political courage to stand out and say this needed to be done. He said it strongly and boldly and specifically. A lot of things in politics are broad generalizations. He had the courage to come forward with specific ideas five years ago to try to address this problem. At that time a combination of the political climate and leadership in the executive branch didn't allow executives to be successful.
Seventeen months ago the climate had certainly changed in the front office. And Steve and I began to talk about whether or not we could tackle this problem together. I laid out a plan in September. It was one that I liked and was aggressive. Steve came back in January with a counterproposal, publicly, and was also a good responsible plan. And then together we began a conversation along with our staffs to try to see if we could forge a compromise. It took months and it was not easy. But it would not have happened, we would not be here if it wasn't for the five years of commitment that Steve Sweeney has put into this effort. This did not happen overnight, because it is harder to get the big things done, and so I am, in a matter of speaking, a Johnny come lately to this fight compared to the Senate President. And when things really got tough and when things in this town typically fall apart, he stood up and held them together. He stood his ground. He (made) the compromises he needed to make to satisfy me and satisfy the Speaker, but he never compromised his principles. That ladies and gentlemen is an act of political courage and when you look back on what he has accomplished through this type of leadership, I think folks will rightly conclude that Senator Sweeney has done something that is very rare in public life today. He was able to erode just a little bit of his Sinicism that the public has about those in public life. If I gave you the hypothetical the Senate President who put forward a proposal that he knew on his best that only a third of his caucus would support and instead of running for the hills or coming up with a convenient political excuse he would dig his heels and stand his the ground and say I am doing this because it is the right thing to do for the people who elected me.
If you told me that was a movie script that would not sell in today's simple world it doesn't mean it's a movie script, it happened and all of us got to watch it happen. And I'm really, really honored to be his partner and be his friend. We will have disagreements over time some of them may happen real soon. You're optimistic as usual. But that doesn't matter, because people expect us to stand for our principles, but they also expect us to sit with each other while we stand for those principles. To reason together, to compromise, and solve problems not just carve the path. So, I want to thank him for everything he has done, today would not be possible without him, and I will now give him the mike for his remarks, the President of the New Jersey State Senate Steve Sweeney.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110628c.html
