Public Statements
Governor Christie: Everyone Is Going To See Improvement From This In Every Corner Of NJ
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 27, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: I suggested this in my budget address and I am so glad that the leaders of the legislature were willing to stand up and get it done very quickly because I wanted to sign it today, it got passed on Thursday, I wanted to sign it today. DOT is ready. The project list is done. There is something in all 21 counties across the state so everyone is going to see improvement from this in every corner of the state of New Jersey and what that means is that you all are going to be working in every corner of the state of New Jersey, getting that work done. Two-hundred and sixty million dollars on roads and bridges, $140 million on our mass transit systems. All really important. We know how many people ride the buses and ride the trains as well and we need them to ride in ways that are more modern, that are more comfortable and more efficient and this will help to get that done as well. Ray mentioned the creation of jobs, and that has been a real theme now in this state for the last 14 months. 2016 was the best year of private sector job growth in this state in 16 years, since the year 2000. Over 60,000 new private sector jobs in New Jersey in 2016 and if "17, the first two months, are any indication, it is going to leave 2016 in the rear view mirror. We've done 25,000 new private sector jobs just in January and February of this year. New Jersey's economy is reacting to our ability to be able to restrain taxes, to restrain government spending, except in those areas where government has the role that it needs to play and building infrastructure is one of those places. So we're investing in that way. You're going to see, and saw this past week, unemployment in New Jersey is now at 4.4 percent - 4.4 percent. When I walked into the governor's office it was 9.8 percent - 9.8 percent. It's now 4.4 percent. New Jersey's unemployment rate when I became governor was higher than the national average. Today, New Jersey's unemployment rate is three-tenths of a point lower than the rest of the nation. Three hundred and twenty-six thousand new jobs since we walked into the governor's office, all in the private sector. This isn't an accident everybody. It's the policies that we've put forward that are working and no matter who you are in my business, you have somebody who doesn't like you. In fact, I've got plenty who don't like me. I don't care. I'm about results. I'm about putting touchdowns in the end zone. I'm about bringing democrats and republicans together on issues that really matter.

Source:
