Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Honors Memorial Day at Doyle Veterans Memorial Cemetery
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 28, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

In honor of Memorial Day, Governor Chris Christie today joined Major General Glenn K. Rieth, The Adjutant General, and a number of our State's veterans at the State's Annual Memorial Day Ceremony at the Brigadier General William C. Doyle Veterans Memorial Cemetery in Wrightstown. The Doyle Cemetery, with approximately 15 burials each business day, covers 225 acres and was designed to accommodate 154,000 men and women who have served in the Armed Forces as well as their families.
"Memorial Day is a time to honor the men and women who wore this nation's uniform and made the ultimate sacrifice in the name of liberty, democracy and freedom," said Governor Christie. "I am pleased to join veterans and their families to honor the selfless service and sacrifices made by the veterans who are laid to rest at Doyle Cemetery."
The Department of Military and Veterans Affairs (DMAVA), led by Major General Rieth, provides services to New Jersey's more than 460,000 veterans from the time they leave military service until they are laid to rest. In addition to supporting all of the vital programs provided by DMAVA, including a toll-free mental health hotline for veterans, Governor Christie has signed legislation that strengthens the support network for military families after the death of a service member, as well as a program that awards high school diplomas to veterans who dropped out to serve in World War II, Korea and Vietnam.
In addition to the cemetery, DMAVA operates three Veterans Memorial Homes - Paramus, Menlo Park and Vineland - as well as a transitional housing program for homeless veterans in Winslow Township. DMAVA also maintains a statewide network of Veterans Service Offices who work to ensure all of the state's veterans receive the federal and state entitlements earned through their service. The DMAVA team of 18 Veterans Service Officers accounted for the awarding of nearly $72 million in federal benefits to New Jersey veterans last year.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110528a.html
