Public Statements
Christie Administration Appeals FEMA Decision for Federal Assistance of March Flooding
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 12, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie announced today that the State of New Jersey is appealing FEMA'S decision to deny the State's request for a Major Disaster Declaration which would support those communities impacted by the severe storms and flooding that began on March 10, 2011. The flooding continued in some areas for over a week afterward causing extensive damage and hardship. Preliminary damage assessments conducted after the storms exceed $4.5 million, with over 4,000 homes affected.
"We are disappointed in this initial outcome, but will continue to fight for New Jersey's impacted communities and will exert the options available to us through the appeal process," said Governor Christie. "We are mindful of residents in the affected areas who have suffered property damage, the small businesses which have endured economic losses and local jurisdictions with infrastructure damage. Federal disaster assistance would help these communities recover and return back to normal. I look forward to working with New Jersey's congressional delegation to bring relief to these residents."
Individual Assistance (IA) was requested for Bergen, Essex, Morris, and Passaic Counties. The IA program can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
The State requested Public Assistance for Passaic and Warren Counties. Public Assistance funds are available to reimburse the agencies for emergency work, and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe storms and flooding.
Governor Christie requested federal assistance on March 13, and was informed of the denial on April 19, 2011.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110512f.html
