Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Moves Immediately to Protect Public Safety, Signs Bill Repealing Statutory Early Release Parole Program
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 9, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today wasted no time in signing the bill repealing the statutory early release parole program, a law that the Administration had sought to have rolled back 10 months ago on the prediction that it would put public safety at risk. With the Governor's signature, release of another four prisoners scheduled for today was stopped; fourteen were scheduled for release tomorrow.
"From a public policy and public safety point of view, the statutory early release law was a disaster," Governor Christie said. "Repeal should have happened 10 months ago, when we predicted and warned of the tragic circumstances that would follow if this law remained in effect. Nonetheless, I'm relieved and grateful that the legislature finally acted to repeal this failed law. Our communities and the safety of our citizens must get first consideration, and repeal of this law accomplishes that."
In recent months, two inmates -- both of whom had previously been denied parole while serving their prison terms -- were charged with murder after being released under the mandatory early release law. Other inmates gaining early release have been involved in violent crimes, including one individual who robbed and beat a woman so badly police had difficulty identifying the victim. That prisoner had twice been denied parole while serving his sentence.
The bill passed by the Assembly today and previously by the Senate includes another provision added by Governor Christie in a conditional veto issued on March 30. The conditional veto returns discretion to the parole board, where it belongs, for determining parole eligibility. Prior to the Governor's action, a mandatory 3-year parole review for all inmates was imposed on the Parole Board -- even for those inmates who made no efforts toward rehabilitation.
"These are decisions that belong not with lawmakers but with professionals who have taken on this responsibility successfully for decades," Governor Christie said.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110509c.html
