Public Statements
Governor Christie Signs Legislation to Protect Seniors and Disabled New Jerseyans in Assisted Living Facilities
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 29, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Furthering his commitment to safeguarding the rights of senior and disabled New Jerseyans in assisted living facilities, Governor Chris Christie signed S-2458/A-3732 into law. The measure, signed April 20, codifies current Department of Health and Senior Services regulations by converting the resident's statement of rights into statutory obligations.
"Everyone deserves to live their lives safely and with dignity," said Governor Christie. "With this law, we are furthering our commitment to protect the safety and privacy of individuals who reside in assisted living residences and comprehensive personal care homes across the state. By spelling out those rights and requiring that each resident, designated guardian or family member be personally apprised of those liberties, our most vulnerable citizens will be better protected under the law."
The measure specifically requires that a statement of resident rights be distributed to each resident by the assisted living facility or personal care home and that it be posted in a prominent public place in the facility.
"This legislation gives seniors and their loved ones important safeguards while they are living in New Jersey's Assisted Living facilities," said Mary O'Dowd, Acting Commissioner of Health and Senior Services. "It is important that they know what their rights are so they are empowered to make the best possible decisions about their care."
Existing Department of Health and Senior Services regulations provide all assisted living facility or comprehensive personal care home residents certain "rights." These more than forty guarantees include the right to:
* Receive personalized services and care in accordance with the resident's individualized general service or health service plan;
* Be treated with respect, courtesy, consideration, and dignity;
* Choose a physician, advanced practice nurse, or physician assistant;
* Live in safe and clean conditions that do not admit more residents than can safely be accommodated; and
* Retain and exercise all constitutional, civil, and legal rights to which the resident is entitled by law.
Sponsors of the legislation include Senators Richard J. Codey (D-Essex) and Sandra B. Cunningham (D-Hudson) as well as Assembly members Annette Quijano (D-Union) and Valerie Vainieri Huttle (D-Bergen).

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110429a.html
