Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Reaffirms Call for Legislature to Bring Accountability to New Jersey Authorities, Boards and Commissions
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 16, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Once again highlighting the need for the Legislature to side with the taxpayers, ratepayers and tollpayers of New Jersey rather than entrenched interests and political appointees, Governor Chris Christie today reiterated his call for the Legislature to extend gubernatorial veto authority to those authorities, boards and commissions where it currently does not exist. The Governor announced that the Administration will forward comprehensive legislation within 10 days for the Legislature's consideration to grant veto authority over multi-jurisdictional entities where it does not currently exist. Extending or expanding the Governor's veto authority is necessary to prevent waste, abuse and unethical conduct before it occurs and rein in the practices of authorities that have continuously flouted Governor Christie's insistence on a high-level of accountability in their conduct.
"For too long, the unelected, political appointees of these patronage mills have run roughshod over the taxpayers, ratepayers and tollpayers of New Jersey with little or no accountability for their actions, or oversight of their operations that collectively amount to billions of dollars of public funds. Early on in my Administration, I made it clear that the status quo at these entities was unacceptable and that the swamp must and would be drained," said Governor Christie. "Following through on that promise to the people of New Jersey, I have exercised veto authority 20 times in an aggressive and unprecedented manner to rein in the waste, mismanagement and abuse taking place at the state's so-called "independent' authorities, boards and commissions. But we can and must go further, and the granting of additional veto authority is a necessary step to strengthen my Administration's ability to enforce accountability. It's past time for the entire Legislature to get on board with the bipartisan effort to bring fiscal responsibility, good governance and oversight by extending or expanding gubernatorial veto authority to these entities currently lacking it."
Despite the Governor's consistent calls for veto authority, and the continued uncovering by the Authorities Unit of the Governor's Office of waste, abuse, mismanagement and malfeasance at these entities, the Legislature has failed to act.
"The Legislature has a clear choice on this issue -- stand up for the public who demand that public money be used in an appropriate, efficient and responsible manner or side with the political appointees and entrenched interests who abuse the public trust to enrich themselves and their cohorts," continued Governor Christie. "Existing bills pending in the Legislature enjoy bipartisan sponsorship, and would no doubt be passed with overwhelming support. The time for the Legislature to act on behalf of the taxpaying, tollpaying and ratepaying public is now."
In pressing for additional oversight and accountability over these authorities, boards and commissions, the Governor cited more action taken today by his Administration to police these entities with the commencement of removal proceedings against two members of the North Jersey District Water Supply Commission (NJDWSC). In letters issued today, Governor Christie notified NJDWSC commissioners Albert Manzo and Michael Cricco, that he will immediately commence removal proceedings for cause. In addition, the Governor also took the necessary steps to suspend the two commissioners without pay pending the resolution of the removal proceedings. Today's action follows on the heels of Governor Christie's demand for increased transparency and disclosure outlined in letters sent on February 25 from Chief Counsel Jeff Chiesa to the NJDWSC commissioners and executive director.
The Governor's letters also state that if the resignations are not provided by March 21, each commissioner is directed to appear before David A. Cohen, Director of the Governor's Office of Employee Relations, to be advised of the charges.
Today's action represents the next step in a continuous effort undertaken by Governor Christie to bring oversight and accountability to the various state authorities, boards and commissions in New Jersey, including those where the Governor does not presently maintain veto authority.
In January and February, Governor Christie took action to remove six of the seven Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioners and empower Executive Director Wayne Forrest to clean up the patronage practices, mismanagement and associated waste of ratepayer dollars. Those subsequent efforts have included at least 71 firings, an overhaul of the organization, the freezing of fees paid to outside attorneys and other reforms. This action has already resulted in savings of $10 million at the PVSC.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110316a.html
