Public Statements
Letter to Joseph C. Spicuzzo, Commissioner, New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority
Letter
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 8, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie Calls for Joseph C. Spicuzzo to Resign from the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority
Citing his recent arrest for allegations of bribery and official misconduct, Governor Chris Christie today sent a letter to Joseph C. Spicuzzo of Middlesex requesting his resignation as a Commissioner of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority (NJSEA).
In calling for his resignation, Governor Christie wrote, "given the seriousness of the criminal charges, your continued participation in NJSEA affairs would be disruptive to the effective and orderly operation of the NJSEA, and could lead the public to question the integrity of the actions of the NJSEA."
Governor Christie also noted that the NJSEA is taking important steps to eliminate the need for continued taxpayer subsidies of its operations while continuing to preserve a robust horseracing industry in the State. "The conduct of one individual Commissioner cannot be permitted to cloud the work of the entire NJSEA in acting to further these goals," wrote the Governor.
Joseph C. Spicuzzo, Commissioner
New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority
Meadowlands Sports Complex
50 State Route 120
East Rutherford, New Jersey 07073-2160
Dear Commissioner Spicuzzo:
In light of the disturbing allegations of bribery and official misconduct that led to your arrest yesterday, I call upon you to immediately resign your position as a Commissioner of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority ("NJSEA"). Given the seriousness of these criminal charges, your continued participation in NJSEA affairs would be disruptive to the effective and orderly operation of the NJSEA, and could lead the public to question the integrity of the actions of the NJSEA.
The operations of the NJSEA are at a critical juncture. The NJSEA is in the process of taking steps to eliminate the need for continued taxpayer subsidies while continuing to maintain a robust horseracing industry in this State. The significance of these actions to not only the New Jersey horseracing industry, but to all state taxpayers, cannot be overemphasized. The conduct of one individual Commissioner cannot be permitted to cloud the work of the entire NJSEA in acting to further these goals.
To preserve the integrity of future NJSEA Board actions, your resignation is requested by close of business on March 11, 2011.
Sincerely,
Chris Christie
Governor

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110308c.html
