Public Statements
Governor Christie Vetoes Minutes of the New Jersey Redevelopment Authority
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Feb. 1, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Today, Governor Chris Christie once again exercised his veto authority to check inappropriate practices by state authorities by vetoing minutes of the New Jersey Redevelopment Authority. At their meeting on January 19^th , 2011, the NJRA approved a 2011 administrative budget which contained three percent discretionary raises for staff and funds for employees to select gifts from a catalog pursuant to an "Employee Service Awards Program." The Governor's veto, the eighteenth such action since taking office, again demonstrates the impact and effectiveness of executive branch oversight when the legislature provides the necessary veto power over the actions of the many authorities, boards and commissions across state government. The Governor has not been granted such veto authority over the Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioners or the North Jersey District Water Supply Commission, making it more difficult to effectively police the activities of those bodies.
In vetoing the New Jersey Redevelopment Authority meeting minutes, dated January 19^th , 2011, Governor Christie cited the "inappropriate" nature of the budget allocations for discretionary raises and employee gift program, which contradict with the Governor's stated goal of maintaining fiscal prudence in the board, commission and authority spending practices.
Governor Christie also noted that, "the approved Administrative Budget did not reflect line items for these inappropriate expenditures; rather, information concerning these expenditures was provided only after repeated requests for additional details. Such expenditures contradict my stated goal of fiscal prudence. For these reasons, I am compelled to veto the resolution which approved the FY2011 Administrative Budget."
This becomes Governor Christie's eighteenth veto taken against various state authorities and commissions since taking office. Meeting minutes are scrutinized by the Governor's Office Authorities Unit to flag potentially troublesome issues.

Source:
