Public Statements
Gov. Christie: My Goal As Governor Is To Leave NJ Better Than I Found It
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 20, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: This declaration of commitment ensures that New Jersey residents will be able to access career connection services at all of our county colleges, as well as the state's 29 one-stop career centers, which are operated by Labor and Workforce Development, in our libraries and our community and faith-based organizations are all participating in this initiative. I want to thank them for doing so, as well. Department of Labor and Workforce Development and the Office of the Secretary of Higher Education have set a new attainment goal. We're calling it 65 by 25. This initiative seeks to increase the number of people in the state who have completed education beyond high school by the year 2025. In 2015, 52 percent of residents had earned an associated degree, industry valued credential or higher. Our goal is to increase that number from 52 percent to 65 percent by 2025. Our goal will be met because of the collaboration you see today with our community colleges and the help that we hope we will also get from our other institutions of higher education across the state. When I speak to employers one of the things that they like the most about our state is that we have one of the most highly educated workforces in the nation. That's a good thing, but the pace that education is taking in this new century is something that if we don't hustle to keep up with it, we're going to fall behind. And that would take away one of the real advantages that New Jersey has in terms being attractive to the type of high-level employers that we want to get good paying jobs to our citizens, and so we need to continue to work on this, and that's why this initiative is so important. So all these things that we're doing today and we've done before they lead to the numbers I just talked about in employment but in an even greater sense they lead to our belief that our state can be a better place than it is today. So that's your goal when you're governor. When you're governor your goal is not to make the place where you live perfect, because if you set that as the standard you will fail. Your goal is to make it better than it was when you found it, better than when you got the responsibility that the people gave to be the governor, and that's the goal of what we're trying to do with all of these programs, what we've been trying to do for the last seven and a half years. So we'll continue to push.

Source:
