Public Statements
Governor Christie Takes Action on Legislation to Ensure Future Viability of Horse Racing in New Jersey
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 31, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Furthering his commitment to ensuring a self-sustaining horse racing industry in New Jersey, Governor Chris Christie today signed two bills that provide additional tools for horse racing to operate successfully without taxpayer subsidy. These measures include allowing for "exchange wagering" at New Jersey's horse racing venues as well as establishing a single pari-mutuel pool for every horse race. Governor Christie also proposed revisions by conditional veto of the "Off Track and Account Wagering Act" that will help facilitate self-sustaining operations at both the Meadowlands Racetrack and Monmouth Park.
"These measures represent the next steps in following through on my Administration's commitment to securing a strong, independent, self-sufficient horse-racing industry in New Jersey," Governor Christie said. "We are providing new tools to help the industry implement new strategies, generate additional revenue and capitalize on interest in horse racing around the state. Along with our ongoing efforts to transform racing at the Meadowlands and Monmouth Park through private management, these measures will place horseracing on a path to economic stability and sustainability without public subsidy that New Jersey taxpayers can simply no longer afford."
By signing, A-2926 authorizing "exchange wagering," New Jersey will follow California as only the second state in the country where this type of wagering is permitted. Exchange wagering will provide opportunities to increase revenue for the racing industry by attracting new bettors.
In addition, the enactment of S-2229 will permit racetrack permit holders to provide a single pari-mutuel pool for every horse race, resulting in the attraction of new bettors and increased racing revenues. This will reduce the adverse effect that large wagers have on the payoff odds of winning bets by pooling all bets together.
Governor Christie also conditionally vetoed A-1705, which provided for revisions to the "Off Track and Account Wagering Act" to expedite the development of off track wagering facilities throughout the State.
"While I wholeheartedly endorse the objectives behind A-1705, a conditional veto is necessary to give us the necessary flexibility and latitude in negotiations, as it relates to the assignment of Off Track Wagering locations, and that any future OTW locations not be hampered out of the gate with additional fees on their operations," Governor Christie said. "While we continue to progress in a dialogue to develop a self-sustaining thoroughbred racing industry in New Jersey, it is critical that we have all tools available to reach an agreement that protects taxpayers and the needs of industry partners."
On December 17, 2010, Governor Christie announced a plan to preserve live Standardbred racing at the Meadowlands Racetrack through the lease of that facility to the Standardbred Breeders and Owners Association (SBOA). The assignment of four off-track wagering locations to the SBOA is a critical component of that agreement.
Consistent with the Governor's commitment to ease the burden borne by taxpayers in subsidizing New Jersey's horseracing industry and the recommendations of the supplementary report of the Hanson Commission issued on November 15th, the Christie Administration today also announced that the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority will issue in the near future a Request for Proposals for the sale of Monmouth Park, including assignment of additional off-track wagering operations.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110131c.html
