Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Issues Letters Commencing Removal Proceedings Against Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioners, Demanding Immediate Suspension Without Pay
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 25, 2011
Location: Trenton, NJ

Today, Governor Chris Christie issued letters to six of the seven Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioners notifying them that he will immediately commence removal proceedings for cause. In addition, the Governor also took the necessary steps to suspend the six commissioners without pay pending the resolution of the removal proceedings. Today's letters followed on the heels of Governor Christie's demand outlined in a January 18th letter from Chief Counsel Jeff Chiesa that requested each of the Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioners produce all relevant information relating to their participation in hiring practices and contract awards at the Passaic Valley Sewage Commission ("PVSC"). Six of the commissioners prepared written responses to Chief Counsel Chiesa's questions. One commissioner, William F. Flynn, refused to respond but instead submitted a letter demanding an apology for the tone of the Chief Counsel's letter.
In their letters, several commissioners indicate that they have lobbied in favor of or recommended for hire relatives and family members to work at PVSC. PVSC documents indicate that several of them also voted to award raises and promotions to these individuals. While the Christie Administration has aggressively pushed the Commission to enact further reform in accordance with sound ethical and fiscal practices, the Board of Commissioners has continued to resist. The commissioners have also blocked attempts by Executive Director Wayne Forrest to institute reforms of the PVSC. In light of persistent abuses of the hiring system, blatant conflicts of interest and unfair compensation and perks, it is clear that serious and fundamental reform will only take place once the existing commissioners have been removed.
"The members of the PVSC Board of Commissioners have had more than enough time to begin reforming the Commission, but have chosen instead to perpetuate a pattern of abuse. They have repeatedly engaged in unethical hiring practices, secured unwarranted perks and blatantly ignored conflicts of interest. Using the PVSC as a personal spoils system will no longer be tolerated and this reckless disregard for ethical behavior will come to an end," said Governor Chris Christie.
The Governor outlines in each letter specific grounds for each commissioner's removal. Some of the grounds include:
* The fact that the commissioners are no longer fit or able to serve as a Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioner,
* The fact that the commissioners have committed conduct which is violative of the Commissioner's oath, in derogation of N.J.S.A. 58:14-4;
* The fact that certain commissioners had a direct or indirect interest in Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioners contracts; and
* The fact that the commissioners have violated the Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioners Code of Ethics.
* In the case of William F. Flynn, the Governor cited an additional reason for his removal: his "non-responsive answer to the January 18, 2011 inquiry of Chief Counsel Jeffrey S. Chiesa. That response is itself sufficient cause to remove."
The Governor's letter also states that if he has not received resignations by January 27th, each commissioner is directed to appear before David A. Cohen, Director of the Governor's office of Employee Relations, to be advised of the charges.
Governor Christie continued, "Now is the time for the legislature to post and pass the bipartisan legislation which gives the governor the necessary veto authority to bring this taxpayer abuse to an end. It is clear that the PVSC has forfeited the right to police their own behavior. They must be held accountable which is why the legislature must give me the ability to stop this betrayal of the taxpayer's trust. Every additional day of delay by the legislature makes this taxpayer abuse more possible."
In order to maintain the continued, uninterrupted operation of the PVSC plant, Governor Christie has signed an Executive Order that vests all necessary authority to run the PVSC in Executive Director Wayne Forrest.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110125c.html
