Public Statements
The Christie Reform Agenda: Attacking the Third Rail of Politics - Bringing Fiscal Sanity to NJ's Out-of-Control Pension and Benefits Systems
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 24, 2011
Location: Unknown

At a Reform Agenda Town Hall in Chesilhurst, Governor Chris Christie today will press the need for passage of his reform proposals to shake up New Jersey's out-of-date, antiquated and increasingly expensive pension and benefits systems. The Governor will continue highlighting his reform proposals as necessary to restore fairness and affordability to the costs that current and future generations of New Jersey taxpayers must bear.
In September, Governor Christie unveiled a sweeping package of reform measures to make the state and local employee pension system sustainable for current and future retirees and to bring fairness and affordability to the public employee health benefits system. Recognized as key cost-drivers for government at the state and local levels, the need for reform in these systems has received support from members of both parties and secured a commitment from Governor Christie and legislative leaders to be a top priority in 2011.
The cost of these already expensive systems continues to grow and threatens to collapse the pension system and force state and local governments to expend limited budget resources on overgenerous pension and health benefits. The Christie Reform Agenda for pension and benefits fundamentally changes course by modernizing the pension and benefit systems and ensuring long-term solvency without raising taxes or cutting essential government services.As a result, the Governor's reforms will restore fairness and affordability to the costs borne by current and future generations, and slow the rapid growth of government costs, spending and taxes that have overwhelmed taxpayers.
Christie Reform Agenda for Public Employee Pensions -- At a Glance
The current pension system is underfunded by $54 billion and, unless reforms are enacted, that number will grow to $183 billion by 2041, even if the taxpayers make all statutorily required pension fund contributions.
* Governor Christie's reforms will reduce total pension underfunding from $183 billion in 2041 without reform to $23 billion in 2041, and
* Increase the aggregate funded ratio from the present level of 66% to more than 90% in 30 years.
A PDF of Governor Christie's Reform Agenda proposal for pensions is attached to this release:
Christie Reform Agenda for Public Employee Health Benefits -- At a Glance
Today, New Jersey's unfunded liability, or future costs expected in the health benefits system, is $66.8 billion. New Jersey spends $4.3 billion annually on public employee and retiree health care costs, and the problem is only getting worse.
The cost for operating the health care benefits program for public employees and retirees is slowly sapping New Jersey's budget to the point where it is becoming impossible for state and local government to fund critical priorities and bring rising deficits into line.
* Without immediate action, costs will increase by more than 40 percent over the next four years. By contrast, the average cost to an active public employee will increase by less than 10 percent over the same period.
* The cost of health benefits, as a percent of New Jersey's annual budget, has grown from 4.5 percent in 2001 to more than 9 percent today.
Governor Christie's reforms will restore fairness to the system by:
* Transitioning the cost-sharing in the system to a more realistic model,
* Offering more options for employees to choose from, and
* Switching to a system requiring employees to pay a percentage of their premium rather than a percentage of their salary.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552011/approved/20110124a.html
