Public Statements
CNN "American Morning" - Transcript
Interview
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 12, 2011
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R), NEW JERSEY: Yes. Not used frequently, T.J.
HOLMES: I'm sitting here, of course, talking about Governor Chris Christie. He's made some headlines for the right and wrong reasons and you probably used to that. A lot of people are still talking about you being out of town during that big blizzard.
CHRISTIE: Yes.
HOLMES: People always talking about you in 2012.
So, what I'm going to do here, first, thank you for being here.
CHRISTIE: Happy to be here.
HOLMES: They're usually saving this question for last. I'm just going to ask it first, get it out of the way, clear the air between you and me.
CHRISTIE: Sure.
HOLMES: You've already said there's no way you're going to run for president in 2012. How about this? Would you like to be president one day?
CHRISTIE: You know, T.J., I can't even imagine it. I mean, I gave the State of the State Address in New Jersey yesterday. I've been watching the speeches for 30 years and I stood up on that podium and said, I can't believe I'm governor of New Jersey. So, I'm still having a sense of wonder about that. The idea of president doesn't really cross my mind.
HOLMES: Now, the reason it keeps -- your name keeps coming up and people put you in polling even at this early date is because of what you've been able to do in your state. First of all, a Republican elected in a blue state. Second of all, you've been able to balance the budget. Third of all, you've been able to get some of your agenda through and doing it by pissing people off, quite frankly, taking on a lot of folks including unions.
That gives some Republicans and state leaders some encouragement in their states, but also scares some people in other states, as well.
Can that work other places or you got a unique situation there?
CHRISTIE: No. I think it can work in other places. I think you just have to tell people the truth. You know, treat them like adults. I mean, it's not like anybody in New Jersey or the other these other states don't know that we're in really hard times and I think what they want is for their leaders to just give it to them straight.
They know there's no magic wand we can wave to fix this. There's going to be some ugly stuff to dig out of the problems we've created for ourselves over the last decade. So, let's get to work.
HOLMES: And some ugly stuff we're talking about is you're going at it with the teacher's union there. And you have even called -- it's been reported -- the head of the teachers union a, quote, "greedy thug"? Did you call her that?
CHRISTIE: No. I said the union itself were a bunch of greedy thugs.
HOLMES: Oh, so not just one. A collection of greedy thugs.
CHRISTIE: A collection, yes, yes.
HOLMES: And that's better?
CHRISTIE: I don't know if it's better but it's more accurate.
HOLMES: But that language, though -- that language, though, and some people can relate to that. And what you're saying. But when you hear a state leader going after a teacher's union, it's hard for some people to separate teachers from teacher's union. It sounds like you're going directly after the people who educate our children.
CHRISTIE: No, definitely not. There are thousands of incredible teachers in New Jersey who are doing a great job every day. They're not being well-represented by this union, because all the union cares about is higher wages, cheaper benefits for them, for their members, bigger pensions and protecting bad teachers through this awful tenure system that we have. And that's doesn't help educate children.
So, I'm all for the good teachers. In fact, I say, we should pay the good teachers more. We should carry them on our shoulders to school every day.
But that's not what the union people are doing. The union people are there to protect themselves with their, you know, $300,000, $400,000 executive directors and army of lobbyists to come in. It's crazy.
HOLMES: They're supposed to protect their people. It's teacher union. It's supposed to look out for teachers.
CHRISTIE: Protect the good ones, not the bad ones.
HOLMES: Now, a lot of changes you want to make, but your state has some pretty impressive numbers, I believe, the highest high school graduation rate in the country. You're all around 80 percent or something like that. Teachers make pretty good wages. Aren't you afraid if you mess with that system too much, you might actually mess up what's been working for you?
CHRISTIE: No. I'm not because you're looking at just pockets of what happens on our state. You go to the city of Newark, we spend over $24,000 per pupil for year and one out of every two kids graduates from high school in Newark. In Camden, it's even worse.
I can't be content with the fact that in our suburbs, kids are doing on the main fairly well, but in our cities and to some more challenged areas, kids are living with no hope. I can't live with that. That's not what it means to have an American dream. And I want these kids to be able to reach their aspirations.
HOLMES: OK. I'm going to have to wrap up here with you, and I'll go on this note with some people might find amusing, but it's actually a serious challenge for you. "Jersey Shore" and the "Real Housewives of New Jersey" --
CHRISTIE: Yes.
HOLMES: Do you feel in some way you're in competition with those shows for frankly the integrity and the image of your state?
CHRISTIE: Yes. I absolutely do.
HOLMES: Who's winning?
CHRISTIE: We're winning.
HOLMES: You think you're winning --
CHRISTIE: Oh, yes. After the first year, yes. I think we are. I mean, I think we're starting to turn it.
HOLMES: But do you think people know more about your state in a positive way than they know about Snooki?
CHRISTIE: Well, listen, Snooki's all different situation. But, you know, I'll just tell you this. What we're doing now and you read the newspapers across the country, when you hear governors like John Kasich now in Ohio yesterday saying New Jersey is a model for what they want to try to do, it's going to take some little time to overcome the "Jersey Shore," "Real Wives of the New Jersey," "Sopranos" image.
But the fact is that there are great people in New Jersey who are working incredibly hard and who do a great job for their families and for our country. And I understand the entertainment. I understand MTV, and they're making a lot of money off the "Jersey Shore" and that's good for them. They're in business to make money. I'm in business to let people know what the real New Jersey is.
And the real New Jersey is a group of hard working people who raise their families and do their jobs every day and deserve credit for being leaders. And that's what we're going to be known as when I'm done.
HOLMES: And still, no apology from you. You haven't apologized for being gone during that Christmas weekend blizzard. You were gone with your family. You explain it.
CHRISTIE: Yes.
HOLMES: Still no apology for it?
CHRISTIE: No.
HOLMES: Not at all. All right.
CHRISTIE: Nope.
HOLMES: Simple as that. Governor Christie, we appreciate you.
CHRISTIE: Thanks for the time, man.
HOLMES: Good luck this year. We're going to be watching you closely.
CHRISTIE: Good. Good.
HOLMES: All right.
CHRISTIE: Thanks.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1101/12/ltm.03.html
