Public Statements
Governor Christie - "They've Been Yelling and Screaming for These Kind of Reforms for Years."
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Dec. 22, 2010
Location: Unknown

GOVERNOR CHRISTIE: Thank you for being here. First, let me explain to you why we are in Wayne. When we started late this summer doing our reform town hall meetings, we did 17 of them between late August and up till just last week. We started talking about these issues, the tool kit issues and the other reform issues that face our state and so we thought that when signing, what I think is the most significant individual bill in the tool kit that I hope we continue to get passed and considered, that we come back to where we started in talking about the need for reform of our property tax system in the State. And so that's why we are here in Wayne today. I know Assemblyman Rumana thought it was because it's his home town - but you know, it's not all about you Scott.
That's why we are here in Wayne today, it's just an extra added bonus that it's Assemblyman Rumana's home town. I want to thank all of the municipal officials who are standing behind me. You know, we could not have understood this problem as well as we have and we could not have come to the solution that we've come to, without the guidance and the counsel and the support of our local elected officials - the ones who are on the front lines dealing with property tax problems each and every day. And so I want to thank all of the mayors and council people who are here - Republicans and Democrats - for their extraordinary bipartisan support of this effort. We couldn't have done it without you and you deserve great congratulations and I thank you very much.
Next I want thank Senator Sweeny, and you'll hear from Senator Sweeney momentarily but you know, we've proven over the course of the last year that Republicans and Democrats and can get things done together. As is well documented, we don't always agree on everything but we agree on a lot of things and we also agree that it's our job to compromise when we need to, to get things done for the people of our State. So this bill that I signed today, now a law, does not represent everything that I wanted and it certainly doesn't represent everything that Senator Sweeney wanted either. But what we know is that we both were elected with an obligation to serve the public and to come up with the best ideas we can and to compromise in those areas where we need to and where we think we can, without compromising our principles in order to accomplish things for the people that we serve. And there's any number of examples of where we've been able to do that together over the course of the last year. And I handed him one of the pens I signed this with because truly, the bill would not have been possible without his leadership and his support and his willingness to continue to talk when other people thought we were talked out. So Senator, thank you very much for your support.

Source:
