Public Statements
Governor Christie: Our State Provides An Extraordinarily Well-Educated Workforce
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 13, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: I want to thank Mr. Cho for the introduction and good morning everyone I'm thrilled to be here at LG and it is an example, I'm glad the Mayor is here as well, of all of us working together to continue economic development in this state. LG's commitment to their new corporate headquarters being in Englewood Cliffs, in New Jersey is great joy for us and the type of jobs that are represented by the people I got to meet as I walked in. Those are the faces of the men and women who LG employs and who support their homes, feed their families, and support our state through the work that they do here every day at LG in addition to the products and services that they produce that help to make our state a better place and our country a better place. So a $48 billion leader across the entire world in everything from home appliances to consumer electronics and mobile communications, LG is a powerhouse. And the fact that I heard Mr. Cho say twice that New Jersey is their home is a good thing. When you hear it once it's good, when you hear it twice you know they really mean it so thank you for saying that and thank you for the $300 million investment that you're making in our state and your confidence in our state as a place that really does provide an extraordinarily well-educated workforce and a group of people who care deeply about their work and are committed to being good corporate citizens in addition to being good citizens in their communities. I know the Mayor understands how important it is to have people who feel confident about the work they go to every day, making a good living and then are able to come and contribute not only in taxes but even more importantly in terms of the way they contribute to the community in all different ways and it creates a great fabric for our society here in New Jersey and the Mayor is an important part of that and I appreciate him being here and his service to the people of Englewood Cliffs. This is an affirmation today of the policies that we've been putting in place over the last seven years that LG has decided to continue to keep their home here in New Jersey.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170313c.html
