Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Reaches Bipartisan Agreement on Critical Tool Kit Measures, Long-Overdue Arbitration Reform Transforms System
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Dec. 9, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

With just 12 days left in the legislative session, Governor Chris Christie has reached a bipartisan agreement to enact critical elements of the Christie Reform Agenda. Working together with Senate President Steve Sweeney, Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean and Assembly Minority Leader Alex DeCroce, the result is action on transformational, long-overdue interest arbitration reform that will provide municipalities with the help they need to keep property taxes down for New Jerseyans.
As part of the Christie Reform Agenda, the Governor unveiled an aggressive plan to curb property tax costs through comprehensive arbitration reform. Arbitration reform, in addition to other pieces of the Reform Agenda, get at the root of the problem facing many local governments struggling to live within their means -- ever-expanding operational costs. The Governor has been traveling the state since September, talking about the importance of enacting a tool kit of reforms to help local government leaders directly address cost drivers and manage within Cap 2.0 without adversely impacting core government services. Since the introduction of these reforms in May, hundreds of mayors and local elected officials across political parties have voiced their support for the tool kit, and underscored the tool kit's importance in helping them manage their local budgets.
"Today we have shown that once again by putting the interests of New Jersey's hard working men and women first we can achieve real, sustainable reform. Building on the first steps we took to reduce property taxes with "Cap 2.0," we are transforming the interest arbitration process and providing a long-term solution that will help local governments keep property taxes down and costs under control," said Governor Chris Christie. "New Jerseyans have waited a long time to see real reform happen in Trenton, which is why they deserve nothing less. Today's agreement is a positive step in that direction, but we still have more work to do before the end of the year.







Source:
