Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Promotes "Small Business Saturday"
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Nov. 26, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

New Jersey Governor Christopher J. Christie has joined with American Express Chairman Kenneth I. Chenault and other elected officials throughout the country in supporting "Small Business Saturday," a campaign designed to highlight the economic importance of small business and to encourage residents to shop locally the weekend after Thanksgiving.

"Thanksgiving is the traditional kick off to the holiday shopping season," said Governor Christie. "Our small businesses are critical to our economy and to our livelihood. I have a number of things on my shopping list for this season and I hope New Jersey residents will join Mary Pat and me as we spend time shopping locally this Saturday."

Small business is key to the future of our nation. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration there were nearly 28 million small businesses in the United States last year. Over the past two decades, they've created 65 percent of net new jobs. Their importance to local communities extends even further. For every $100 spent in locally-owned, independent stores, $68 returns to the community through taxes, payroll and other expenditures, according to the small business advocacy group The 350 Project.

Experts estimate that 138 million people will shop this weekend, generating economic benefits for both employers and employees alike. The holiday shopping season is traditionally the time when retailers are the busiest. New Jersey has over 28,000 retail establishments with 20 employees or less giving residents of the Garden State a whole host of options for shopping on Saturday.

"New Jersey has some of the most unique and exciting retail shops in the nation," added Governor Christie. "Boutiques and shops from Cape May to Newton will be welcoming shoppers with specials and savings. Saturday is the perfect time to explore the unique offerings and experiences offered only by New Jersey small businesses."

Small Business Saturday is being advertised through a number of avenues including such social media as Twitter and Facebook. Consumers are encouraged to visit facebook.com/smallbusinesssaturday where they can participate in a number of ways.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20101126a.html
