Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Applauds Action to Remove E-Z Pass Perks at the Port Authority of NY/NJ
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Nov. 18, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today welcomed the action taken today by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to end the practice of providing free E-Z Pass perks for commissioners, retirees and non-unionized active employees.

"The action taken by the Port Authority board to begin ending E-Z pass perks is a positive step that complies with my September directive to eliminate these abuses that are provided at tollpayers' expense. It's time for the authorities that have not yet acted on my directive, the Delaware River and Bay Authority and the Delaware River Joint Toll Bridge Commission to end these abusive practices as well," said Governor Christie. "These perks and giveaways are completely indefensible, particularly at a time when the public and local government are being asked to do more with less. My Administration will continue to take action to rein in these and other abuses wherever they occur."

On September 16th, Governor Christie vetoed resolutions of the Delaware River Port Authority to reinstate E-Z Pass perks to Commissioners, Officers, employees and retirees of the DRPA and PATCO. These perks had previously been abolished at Governor Christie's direction. Governor Christie also sent letters to five other bi-state agencies that utilize E-Z Pass, including the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, directing them to abolish the practice of providing free E-Z Pass trips and other forms of free passage that are not available to the general public. Today's action by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey makes it the fourth entity to comply with the Governor's directive, following: Delaware River Port Authority, South Jersey Transportation Authority, and New Jersey Turnpike Authority.

Further, Governor Christie has already exercised his veto authority extensively to stop waste, extravagance and abuses at various state authorities and commissions. Fifteen such vetoes have taken place since Governor Christie took office.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20101118a.html
