Public Statements
In Case You Missed It: NJ Governor Christie -- "There Are to be No Contracts Renegotiated Above the Cap Before the Cap Goes Into Effect. I Will Not Stand for It."
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Nov. 16, 2010
Location: Unknown

Transcript YouTube Video
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie:
Now, on the education side and this one I think -- this has been in the news a bit lately -- you may have heard in a couple of my town hall meetings last week: I talked about the new poster boy for greed and arrogance in the New Jersey school systems. Now, we set forth, that on February 7th, there's going to be a cap on school superintendent pay.
[Applause]
And that cap has two elements to it. First, while we acknowledge that being a school superintendent is a hard job -- it's not easy -- but it's certainly no harder than being Governor. So we said ok, we're going to cap pay at $175,000 here because that's what the Governor makes. And we're going to let people make a little bit more than that, it's going to be a sliding scale depending upon size of the school district. But $175,000 for the biggest school districts will be the most you can make in base pay. But to make sure we're consistent with what we're demanding of teachers, we're also saying that you can get up to a 20% bonus based upon accomplishment. And not subjective accomplishment. Objective -- my school district got better in these definable ways. We'll let the school districts decide what those ways are, because maybe some school districts need more help in reading and some need more help in math or science. Let the school boards decide that. But if you
[Applause]
Now what are school boards across New Jersey -- some of them doing? Superintendents whose contracts have not expired, and will not expire by February 7th, are renegotiating those contracts to give them raises above the cap, because if you have a contract in place on February 7th, we can't get rid of your contract. These rules go into effect for people once those contracts expire. Well people who are in the midst of those contracts now -- they're coercing school boards to renegotiate their contracts to extend them a whole number of years. Who's the poster boy for that? I'll give you a real life example. Parsippany, Morris County -- my home county -- school superintendent Lee Seitz. Lee Seitz currently makes $212,000 a year.
By the way, 70 percent of New Jersey school superintendents make more than the Governor. He's negotiated a new contract that says starting on December 1st he would -- and his contract by the way does not expire until next July- so the cap comes into effect in February, when he gets his new contract in July it would have to be under that cap. So he'd be taking a pay cut. He's negotiated a new agreement with the school board starting December 1st his salary will go up to $216,000; the next school year, 220; the next school year, 225; the next school year, 230; ending in the final year of 2014/2015 at $234,000 a year. The school board, despite a massive turnout at the school board meeting of citizens of Parsippany to protest, voted six to two with one abstention -- who was that brave soul? One abstention to approve that new contract. Now I spoke out against that contract and it was erroneously reported in the papers, and erroneously said by the school board that, that contract h
[Applause]
And Rochelle Hendricks, my Commissioner of Education, will be sending a letter out today to the county superintendent of schools in all 21 counties telling them there are to be no contracts renegotiated above the cap before the cap goes into effect. I will not stand for it. If we're asking teachers to sacrifice, administrators have to sacrifice too and they cannot be sitting here saying that they are some special privileged class of folks who deserve to make that kind of money when everybody else in this state is tightening their belt and making do with less. And so we're not going to have it.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20101116a.html
