Public Statements
Governor Christie Vetoes A-2740
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 7, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Citing duplications with current law and actions already being taken by his administration to assess public concerns with "Kyleigh's Law" provisions, Governor Chris Christie today vetoed A-2740. The bill would have required the Attorney General to conduct a duplicative six-month study and report on changes to New Jersey's graduated driver's license system. Current law already provides for the Attorney General to monitor and report to the Governor and Legislature on the impact of the law.
"As a father, I understand the concerns raised over the placement of decals that could make them vulnerable to crime," said Governor Christie. "In the light of these concerns, I have directed Attorney General Paula Dow to immediately conduct a survey and report to me within six months on any instances where decals have been alleged to have been involved in the commission of crimes or targeting of individuals.
"We must take potentially unintended consequences of the law seriously and make any necessary changes based on hard facts and evidence. While I applaud the goals and intentions of this bill and its sponsors in the Legislature, it is unnecessary given the actions already underway by my administration."
The Governor's directive to the Attorney General will coincide with, rather than replace, provisions in current law that provide for a study and report on the impact of changes to the graduated driver's license law.
The current graduated driver's license law requires that the performance of new drivers be monitored, the operation and effectiveness of the graduated driver's license law be evaluated, and that these findings be reported by the Attorney General to the Governor and the Legislature.
The Division of Highway and Traffic Safety within the Department of Law and Public Safety is already working in cooperation with Rowan University and Virginia Tech University to study the effects of State's graduated driver's license law and the recent changes to it. This study will include one year of data to provide a more reliable and meaningful evaluation of the law.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20101007a.html
