Public Statements
The Christie Reform Agenda: Making New Jersey a Home for Economic Growth and Job Creation
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 20, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie and Lt. Governor Kim Guadagno announced today that Coca-Cola Enterprises will soon break ground on a new, state-of-the-art, environmentally sustainable facility in South Brunswick, while expanding operations at their current Carlstadt facility. Governor Christie and Lt. Governor Guadagno welcomed the news as a sign that Coca-Cola has faith in the economic growth polices being pursued by the administration and as a clear indicator that the State must move forward and adopt reforms that will help spur economic growth and job creation in New Jersey. The Christie Administration has already begun taking action on initiatives directed at supporting and attracting businesses to New Jersey, including the recently launched Business Action Center, as part of the New Jersey Partnership for Action.
"Coca-Cola is a world-class, Fortune 500 company that is recognized all over the globe as a symbol of growth and success. The company's decision to partner with and remain in the State of New Jersey is one of the clearest signals yet that our efforts to improve the state's business climate is working," said Governor Christie "If we maintain our focus and move aggressively to create a positive climate for job creation, New Jersey can and will emerge from the recession as a national leader in economic expansion. Our Reform Agenda will create good paying jobs for New Jersey families by building on our current efforts and achievements to foster business growth and make a culture of expansion and prosperity a permanent fixture in our economy."

Reflecting the Administration's commitment to attracting and supporting business and job creation in the State, New Jersey's recently formed Business Action Center, a component of the New Jersey Partnership for Action, provides a one-stop shop for business, combining all economic development activities under one roof, including business retention and attraction services. The Center is dedicated to assisting new and existing businesses navigate the regulatory landscape in New Jersey, including direction and support on everything from licensing and business permits to certification processes. To this end, the Center has also launched a business call center, where customer service representatives are available to answer inquiries and businesses will get a return phone call from an account manager within 24 hours.

The Business Action Center will continue to work closely with Coca-Cola as they advance their new construction in South Brunswick, and will continue to assist other companies that have recently chosen to grow in New Jersey, including:
· Intrasphere Technologies (Relocation from New York City to Jersey City, 300 new jobs);
· Watson Pharmaceuticals (Parsippanny expansion involving 175 new jobs);
· UPS (Retention of over 740 jobs in sites throughout Passaic and Bergen counties);
· Diversified Foam (68 retained and 30 new manufacturing jobs in Gloucester County);
· PNY Technologies in Parsippany (chose to remain in New Jersey and upgrade their flash memory card manufacturing facility to an expanded facility)
Today's announcement adds Coca-Cola Enterprises to an expanding list of Fortune 500 companies expressing their confidence in New Jersey, including Campbell's Soup Company, Honeywell, and Pitney Bowes. Fourteen other firms from New York, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Tennessee and Maryland have made the choice to relocate operations to New Jersey since January. These moves represent 1,180 new jobs being created and nearly $27 million in total public-private investment generated for the state.

The new 230,000-square foot facility in South Brunswick, set to open in mid-2011, and the expansion of the existing Carlstadt facilities will result in the retention of over 1,000 jobs in the State and ensure the company has the space to accommodate future growth.

"After a comprehensive assessment, the decision was made to build a new facility in South Brunswick, and to expand our current operations in Carlstadt," said Michael Sullivan, Market Unit Vice President, CCE New Jersey. "Working with the State of New Jersey and the Christie Administration, we were able to keep jobs in New Jersey and be well positioned to grow in the future."

Since January, the Christie Administration has implemented an aggressive economic development strategy that is helping to jumpstart the state's economy through sustainable job creation and economic expansion -- from reducing red tape to make it easier for New Jersey to do business, and conducting a comprehensive review of tax policies to bringing focus to business attraction and retention services through the Partnership for Action.

"Ensuring that New Jersey is a home for growth is our number one priority as we work to jump start our economy," said Lt. Governor Kim Guadagno. "We're taking measures to make doing business in New Jersey easier for companies through our Business Action Center. As we continue to work with our partners at the Economic Development Authority and Choose New Jersey we are actively working to attract and retain businesses and create jobs. Today's announcement by Coca-Cola Enterprises demonstrates how and why companies are once again choosing New Jersey."

Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) is the world's largest marketer, producer and distributor of products of The Coca-Cola Company. CCE sells approximately 80 percent of The Coca-Cola Company's bottle and can volume in North America, and is the sole licensed bottler for products of The Coca-Cola Company in Belgium, continental France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, Monaco, and the Netherlands. The company employs 70,000 worldwide and 59,000 in North America. Both The Coca-Cola Company and CCE are headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20100920b.html
