Public Statements
Letter to John J. Matheussen, CEO of DRPA/President of PATCO
Letter
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 2, 2010
Location: Unknown

Dear Mr. Matheussen:
I have reviewed the minutes the August 19, 2010 meeting of the Delaware River Port Authority and PATCO. In accordance with the authorization contained in Article III of the Delaware River Port Authority Compact and in N.J.S.A. 32:3-4a-4c, I hereby return the minutes with veto of the following resolutions approved at the August 18, 2010 meeting by the Board of Commissioners:
DRPA 10-040: Requiring the Authority to Create an Audit Committee Chaired by the Auditor General of Pennsylvania which will Oversee an Independent Finance, Performance and Forensic Audit Every Two Years
This resolution does not comply with my directive to allow a full audit of the Authority's budget and performance by the New Jersey Comptroller. As such, I am compelled to veto this resolution. However, following objections raised by my office, this matter was revisited at the DRPA/PATCO meeting on August 25, 2010. I have received the minutes of that August 25, 2010 meeting wherein an amendment to this resolution was approved by the Board. The amend resolution now requires the Authority to permit and cooperate in any audit that the New Jersey Comptroller's Office wishes to conduct. To give immediate effect to this corrected resolution, I hereby approved that portion of the minutes of the August 25, 2010 meeting relating to action taken by the Authority in connection with the adoption of DRPA 10-040 (amend).
DRPA 10-041: Requiring all Meetings of the Authority Board to Be Open to the Public and Requiring the Authority to Follow the Requirements of the Pennsylvania Right to Know Law
This resolution does not comply with my directive that DRPA follow the requirements of the New Jersey Open Public Records ACT (OPRA). As such, I am compelled to veto this resolution. However, following objections raised by my office, this matter was revisited at the DRPA/PATCO meeting on August 25, 2010. I have received the minutes of that August 25, 2010 meeting wherein an amendment to this resolution was approved by the Board. This amend resolution now requires the Authority to comply with New Jersey OPRA until such time as staff shall recommend a policy that is a hybrid of the elements of the Pennsylvania Right to Know Law and the New Jersey OPRA, whichever is stricter. To give immediate effect to this corrected resolution, I hereby approve that portion of the minutes of the AUgust 25, 2010 meeting relating to action taken by the Authority in connection with adoption of DRPA 10-041 (amend).
DRPA 10-042: Resolution Implementing Post-Employment Restrictions Policy for Authority Commissioners, Officers and Directors
This resolution does not comply with my directive that DRPA preclude all employees at the level of director and above from accepting employment with any vendor or independent contractor of the Authority for a period of two years after the termination of his or her employment with the Authority. This resolution instead only precludes former Commissioners, Officers, Directors or employees from working with vendors on DRPA or PATCO matters for two years post-employment. The public must be able to trust theat Commissioners or high-level DRPA employees are motivated solely by the desire to further the interests of the Authority, not to obtain lucrative future employment with Authority vendors or consultants, regardless of whether such future employment involves DRPA or PATCO matters. Therefore, I am compelled to veto this resolution and request that the Board adopt a resolution that conforms to my prior directives regarding post-employment restrictions.
DRPA 10-064: Requiring the AUthority to HIre INdependent Counsel to Conduct a Legal Inquiry Into the "True-Up" Provisions of the Authority's Insurance Contracts
I commend the DRPA's intent to refrain from improper conduct with regard to its insurance brokerage contracts. However, it cannot be considered the best use of tollpayer dollars for DRPA to employ another law firm to conduct an investigation into its own affairs. Nor, in the current climate, would the tollpaying public likely accept as truly "independent" the conclusions reached by an entity int he employ of DRPA. Therefore, I am compeleed to veto this resolution. I further request that, within 30 days, the CEO and Vice-Chair ensure that all documents in the possession of the Authority relating to these allegedly improper insurance practices be transferred to the New Jersey Comptroller for a full and thorough review.
With the exception of these four resolutions addressed above, I welcome the reform efforts currently being undertaken by the DRPA. To ensure that such reform is not delayed any further, I hereby grant early approval of those remaining portions of the minutes of the August 18, 2010 meeting relating to all actions taken by the Authority not vetoed herein. All other reforms adopted by the Authority at its August 18, 2010 meeting should therefore be given immediate effect.
Sincerely,
Chris Christie
Governor

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/pdf/20100902a_veto_letter.pdf
