Public Statements
Governor Christie Signs Legislation Establishing the Fort Monmouth Economic Revitalization Authority
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 17, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today signed legislation to provide investment, continuity and economic growth to the Fort Monmouth region by creating the Fort Monmouth Economic Revitalization Authority (FMERA). The FMERA will replace the Fort Monmouth Economic Revitalization Planning Authority and advance that entity's reuse and redevelopment plan for economic development, growth and planning, with a focus on technology-based industries, for the 1,127 acres of real estate at Fort Monmouth following the base closure.
"With the closure of Fort Monmouth very near on the horizon, it is vital that State and local leaders are prepared with a comprehensive, long-term plan to ensure that economic continuity, stability and growth are maintained for the regions effected by the closure," said Governor Christie. "Through the joint efforts of State, county and municipal leaders, Fort Monmouth can and will remain a driver of economic growth for both the region and the State. By creating the Fort Monmouth Economic Revitalization Authority to take action on a comprehensive and strong economic development plan, we are ensuring that the municipal, county and State resources and guidance will be employed in partnership to make certain that Fort Monmouth will be a home for job creation and economic growth."
The Fort Monmouth Reuse and Redevelopment Plan forwarded by the dissolved planning authority is a highly collaborative blueprint for action to:
* Promote, develop, encourage and maintain employment, commerce, economic development, and the public welfare;
* Conserve natural resources; and
* Advance the general prosperity and economic welfare of the people in the affected communities and throughout the state.
Under the new law, FMERA is given a multitude of tools to revitalize and redevelop the Fort Monmouth area and implement the revitalization plan. Among these are the abilities to undertake redevelopment projects, adopt development and design guidelines and land use regulations in connection with the provision of utilities, streets, roads or other infrastructure required for the implementation of the revitalization plan. The New Jersey Economic Development Authority will staff FMERA, which is also authorized under the new law to enter into an agreement with the EDA to act as the designated redeveloper.
"The Fort Monmouth Revitalization Act creates a unique State, local and private sector partnership to build a future where the Fort site can again be a dynamic economic hub one day. It is our challenge and obligation," said Senator Joseph M Kyrillos, Jr. (R-Middlesex, Monmouth), who was the original primary sponsor of the bill that created the Ft Monmouth Economic Revitalization Planning Authority in 2006.
S- 917 was sponsored by Senators Raymond Lesniak and Jennifer Beck, and Assembly members Joseph Cryan, Albert Coutinho, Angel Fuentes, Annette Quijano, and Declan O'Scanlon, and co-sponsored by Senator Joe Kyrillos and Assemblyman Upendra Chivukula.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20100817a.html
