Public Statements
Gov. Christie: This Revitalization Will Have A Positive Impact On Our Capital City
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 14, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: We're going to have a continued commitment to improve and enhance quality of life here in Trenton, and that's why we're pleased to be announcing today an initiative that will utilize one of Trenton's greatest assets, which is the scenic Delaware River, to develop a new park along the riverfront and connect it to downtown Trenton with a pedestrian bridge. The project, which is a partnership between the Department of Transportation and the Department of Environmental Protection, involves the construction of a pedestrian walkway bridge, from the roof of the state house parking garage, over Route 29, to an underutilized 4.5 -acre strip of land that will be transformed into a riverfront park by the DEP. The Department of Transportation will use about $15 million in transportation enhancement funds for its portion of the project, and it's going to provide access to a part of the Trenton waterfront separated from the downtown area since the 1950s when Route 29 was developed. It's really remarkable that the entire west boundary of Trenton, more than 5 miles, is bordered by the Delaware River yet 84,000 Trentonians are completely disconnected from the river and its tremendous potential. It's also amazing that at one time, people could walk out of the state house and stroll along the Delaware River. Through these revitalization efforts, current residents, businesses and visitors are going to have greater access to downtown positively impacting our state capital's economy and helping to restore Trenton to the capital city that it should be. It is, as I have said before, a historically, extraordinarily important city in our nation's history and Trenton needs to be treated that way, not only by the folks that live here, but by the folks that work here and the folks who do business here. So we're hoping to set that example, the Mayor and I together, to let people know that government is going to do its part. And I look forward to coming back in the years to come to see this park as another example of the way working together with each other we can enhance the lives of the people who live and work every day in Trenton. Thank you all for coming.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170614d.html
