Public Statements
Governor Christie Reaches Bipartisan Consensus to Provide Hard Cap
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: July 3, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today announced a bipartisan consensus with Legislative leaders to provide long-awaited property tax relief for beleaguered New Jerseyans through an even stronger cap of 2 percent. This agreement stays true to the Governor's commitment to a hard cap with limited exceptions while giving voters the ultimate decision making authority in whether or not the cap should be exceeded.
There is no doubt New Jersey is facing a property tax crisis with local government spending having grown by 69% and property taxes having grown by 70% in the last decade. This hard 2 percent cap delivers long overdue relief that cannot be rendered meaningless by politicians. By putting the people first and giving them the ultimate say, New Jersey is finally taming the property tax beast. No longer will Trenton bureaucrats decide property taxes. Any waivers of the 2.0 hard cap will be granted by a vote of the people, not the bureaucrats of the Local Finance Board. A local cap override referendum would be approved by a simple majority vote.
Furthermore, critically important to the Christie Reform Agenda, the agreement also includes commitments from the Legislature to swiftly and diligently enact the Governor's accompanying "tool kit" reform components by early Fall. As Governor Christie has continually stated, providing municipalities the necessary tools to combat rising local costs is the foundation for fundamentally reforming government and ensuring tax relief is made permanent.
"It's been an unprecedented week of bipartisan negotiation and, finally, consensus to work together to end the property tax nightmare for New Jerseyans," Governor Christie said. "This formula finally has as its centerpiece a hard cap that will bring discipline and careful planning to local spending - the heart of the problem with property taxes - while providing just enough flexibility to deal with certain unpredictable costs."




Source:
