Public Statements
Time Corrected: For the Third Consecutive Day Governor Chris Christie Calls Special Session of the Legislature to Address Property Tax Reform
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: July 1, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today announced that he has ordered a Special Joint Session of the Legislature for a third day to address a bipartisan solution to provide real, immediate and lasting relief to the highest property taxes in the nation faced by New Jersey families and businesses.
"The time has come for a bipartisan solution to the single-most important issue facing our citizens - ending, once and for all, a thirty-year cycle of escalating property taxes. We cannot delay any longer," said Governor Christie. "Although I would strongly prefer a constitutional amendment to cap property taxes, I have heard the views and reservations of those with opposing viewpoints."
"While I respectfully disagree with those views, I am prepared to work with the legislature on a statutory cap that stays faithful to my core principles, including: putting a firm, 2.5 percent cap on property taxes, giving the people the right to decide when and if the cap is exceeded, and providing only for the few exceptions I outlined in my address to the legislature," added Governor Christie.
"New Jersey residents have waited far too long for property tax relief. New Jersey families pay an average $7,281 in property taxes, up 70 percent in just 10 years," said Governor Christie. "Now it is time to turn our full attention to enacting real, sustainable property tax relief for New Jerseyans. The taxpayers need relief and expect us to act soon."
Acting under his authority in Article V, Section 1, Paragraph 12 and Article IV, Section 1, Paragraph 4 of the New Jersey Constitution, Governor Christie notified the leadership of the Senate and Assembly today in a letter that a Special Joint Session of the Legislature should be convened this Saturday, July 3, 2010 at 10:00 a.m.
In addition to considering legislation specific to capping property taxes, Governor Christie has also ordered the special session to address the thirty-three legislative proposals to reduce costs at the municipal, school and higher education levels

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20100701c.html
