Public Statements
Video & Transcripts of Governor Christie's interview with Neil Cavuto on FOX NEWS at the Cap 2.5 Town Hall in Gibbstown
Interview
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 24, 2010
Location: Gibbstown, NJ

CHRISTIE: I understand, as an executive and a commander-in-chief of the National Guard here in New Jersey, that, you know, if you're the commander-in-chief, you - you have to be the person in charge. Now, there are also times when you're going to want robust debate and advice that differs from yours if you're a commander-in-chief from the people on the ground to give you that advice. And I insist on that myself, not only on domestic issues, but on issues regarding our National Guard.
CAVUTO: You know, Governor, there are people who think insubordination is insubordination, challenging your boss is challenging your boss. The closest analogy I could make to you, sir, is when you kept on your education commissioner, Bret Schundler, when he had gone ahead and made some deals with union heads that you were not a fan of. And you immediately challenged him on that and said that he offered it without your authority. But you didn't fire him. Is there a distinction.
CHRISTIE: Well, you know, listen, again, I think that goes to the relationship. Bret and I had a number of really direct conversations about those decisions that he made.
CAVUTO: What does direct mean?
CHRISTIE: It means I didn't mince any words.
CAVUTO:
CHRISTIE: And in the end, I concluded that Bret understood that he had made a mistake and that that mistake wasn't going to happen again. And so that's the decision that I made when you also balance against the value that I think Bret Schundler will bring for our administration in terms of his ambition on school reform which we need to have in New Jersey and what a articulate spokesman he's been for that over the last almost two decades in New Jersey. You have to balance all those things out. The benefits of the person and the mistake that was made. And in my judgment, with Bret, ounce I had his assurances that was something that wasn't going to happen again, and there really was legitimately just an error in judgment on his part, I felt confident in keeping him on. But that's kind of my point with the president and General McChrystal. I also have a relationship with Bret where when I sat across from him I believed he was telling me the truth. I think that's what the president probably is going to try to get at today with General McChrystal and why the history of the relationship is probably really important. In my judgment, keeping Bret Schundler was the right thing to do. I'm happy to have him board. No one is going to live life without making mistakes. I certainly make them. So does everybody else. As long as you believe those are honest, genuine mistakes, I think people, you know, should get a second chance.

Source:
