Public Statements
Governor Christie: We're Going To Continue To Work At Giving Families A Pathway To Hope
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 2, 2017
Location: Unknown

AJ Solomon: I want to thank the Governor for making a platform for addiction and recovery; an issue that you know, the death toll is astronomical and we can talk about the problem and we have to so that people are aware but I like to live in the solution. At Victory Bay Recovery Center we're helping people get sober. They might actually have a life after this from a disease that you know, not too long ago was just, if you were an alcoholic or an addict, you're going to die, there's no solution. There's a solution to this. He's always been a great speaker, even from when I worked on his advance team and just a great person supporting me. You know he didn't have to check in on me when I went away for treatment, the first time, and then relapse, he didn't need to check on me the second time. When I came back he didn't need to see me so I could see him and make an apology and amends for the things I did. He didn't have to see me. I called his office, he said come in on Tuesday. It was Monday. I said ok. I came in, I made my amends to him, you know he just treated me like any person. He didn't treat me like a drug addict, like someone who was sick. He said, how do we help this issue. This is a serious problem in our state. What do we do? I don't know, I'll tell you my experience. And then he implemented things to fix issues that were in New Jersey. That's beyond my wildest dreams and a gift for everyone who is suffering from this disease. Without further ado, Governor Christie

Governor Christie: There's nothing that can bring a greater sense of hope, as Lee [Solomon, AJ's father] put it, to families across the state than the opportunity to open more places like this to give them a pathway for the possibility of hope. And so we're just going to continue to work at it. That's why I said some of the things I said in the budget speech this week and why I'm going to press so hard to make sure that we get the funding we need to do more of this. I am going to continue to be an advocate for treatment and for making sure that people understand this is nothing to be ashamed of. It's a disease.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170302c.html
