Public Statements
Take Two: Governor Christie Continues Commitment To Charity Care
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 8, 2010
Location: Unknown

"It is a priority to protect our hospitals and those they serve. This budget stands up for hospitals...despite all our other fiscal challenges." - Governor Chris Christie, March 16, 2010
Even as New Jersey faces an economic and fiscal crisis, it is still a core mission of state government to protect the most vulnerable in our state. The Governor's Fiscal Year 2011 Budget demonstrates that providing healthcare for the uninsured - those hardest hit by the economic recession - is such a priority.
* Under the Governor's proposal, 72 hospitals will receive $665 million in Charity Care funding for the state fiscal year that begins on July 1. That represents a $85 million increase over current funding and maximizes matching federal funding at the same time. These funds will strengthen the health care safety net for New Jersey residents when they need it most.
* Statewide, more than 300,000 people will receive medical care through Charity Care this year. These patients are treated for asthma, appendicitis, heart disease, strokes, pneumonia and other illnesses in emergency rooms, outpatient clinics and hospitals across this state.
* In order to achieve greater funding for New Jersey's hospitals, this budget eliminates an artificial cap in order to attract federal matching funds. By doing this, the budget allocates 100 percent of the new revenues - and matching dollars - back into hospital funding.
* Additionally, this budget maintains $40 million in funding for Federally Qualified Health Centers.
* A Healthcare Stabilization Fund of $30 million is also included in the budget.
Improving the Funding Formula to Strengthen the Healthcare Safety Net
This year's budget maximizes federal matching dollars, creates a more equitable distribution of funds to hospitals, protects safety net hospitals and responsibly manages the financial risk to hospitals by reducing the year to year funding changes.
Improving the Distribution Formula to Broaden Funding. In an improvement from previous years, this year's budget consolidates from three to two tiers to allow for a more equitable distribution of funds among hospitals, while minimizing any negative consequences for safety net hospitals.
Reducing Year to Year Funding Changes. By expanding the corridors for the gain or loss to any institution to be a maximum of 55 percent of the difference between the initial calculation of their FY2011 Charity Care subsidy and the total FY2010 amount received.
Increasing the Reimbursement Floor. The FY2011 budget increases the reimbursement floor from 5 cents on the dollar to 15 cents on the dollar. This makes the formula more equitable for those hospitals that received the most limited amount of reimbursement in the past.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20100608a.html
