Public Statements
Governor Christie Calls on Port Authority to Take Trash Trucks Off New Jersey Roads to Reduce Harmful Air Emissions and Protect Environment
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 17, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today called on the Port Authority to help reduce harmful air emissions and take approximately 1,000 trucks per day off New Jersey's roads by building a new barge-to-rail facility at Greenville Yards in Jersey City. The facility, which will be in full operation by 2013, would play a major role in eliminating 15 million vehicle miles traveled in New Jersey, cut down on the cost of highway maintenance and significantly reduce harmful air pollutants.
The new facility would allow for municipal solid waste to be barged from New York to New Jersey in watertight sealed containers and taken out of state by rail. Currently, the majority of New York City's trash is trucked through the Port Authority's Hudson River crossings in unsealed open-topped containers with fabric coverings and travels through the state using New Jersey's roads. This practice causes negative environmental consequences, increased congestion, and a burden on the State's highway infrastructure.
"For far too long, New Jersey's roads have been clogged by trash trucks and the harmful emissions they produce, making the quality of life worse for all of our residents," Governor Christie said. "But the Port Authority can act immediately by completing its purchase of this land, investing the resources needed to build a first-class operation, and moving waste off our roads and onto rail in sealed, safe containers."
In order to implement the plan, the Port Authority needs to make improvements to decades old track and infrastructure, as well as construct a modern barge-to-rail transfer facility. These improvements cannot be made until the purchase of the land is finalized. The track at Conrail's Greenville Yard in Greenville, Jersey City, connects to two railroads - CSX Transportation and Norfolk Southern Railway. The shipment of the sealed containers will add one train per day to New Jersey's rail freight system.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20100517b.html
