Public Statements
Governor Christie Unveils Realistic and Achievable Measures to Reform New Jersey's System of Affordable Housing
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 13, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today outlined a realistic and achievable plan for affordable housing that creates a standards-based, municipally controlled system with minimal involvement from the State. New Jersey is facing dramatically different economic, demographic and social circumstances since the original Fair Housing Act was passed 25 years ago, which is why the current affordable housing system must be retired and replaced. Under the new system, the Council on Affordable Housing (COAH) and State-imposed housing obligations will be abolished and fair, affirmative, locally directed obligations to build low and moderate-income housing will be created.
As a result of the proposed changes, the rehabilitation of existing housing stock with be encouraged, a process largely neglected in the current system, and the affordable housing system will be moved away from state-controlled mandates and towards a locally-based system that focuses on future development. The Governor's proposal calls for a 10 percent affordable housing unit requirement in development projects greater than 10 units (i.e. 2 affordable units for a 20 unit development), and requires a payment to a municipal affordable housing trust fund for projects between 2 and 10 units. The Governor recommends provisions to give priority housing trust funding for projects that provide special needs housing.
"These new measures will help to fix a broken system by promoting sensible, predictable and achievable planning to implement change," said Governor Christie. "Affordable housing is a responsibility that must be naturally considered as part of normal development and local decision making. With strictly limited State involvement in the process, we are finally allowing for flexibility and customization that acknowledges our state's unique economic, community and housing needs."
In February, Governor Christie created a five-member Housing Opportunity Task Force chaired by former Senator Marcia Karrow to examine the State's existing approach to affordable housing and present recommendations to fulfill New Jersey's constitutional obligations in a manner consistent with sound planning and economic growth. In addition, the Legislature is actively considering reforms to affordable housing through legislation sponsored in the Senate by Senators Raymond Lesniak (D-20), Christopher "Kip" Bateman (R-16) and Jeff Van Drew (D-1) and in the Assembly by Assemblymen Vincent Prieto (D-32) and David Rible (R-11).







Source:
