Public Statements
On Earth Day, Governor Christie States Administration Policy On LNG And Reaffirms Commitment To Protecting Our Environment
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 22, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie, joined by Department of Environmental Protection Commissioner Bob Martin and former Governor Tom Kean, today marked Earth Day in New Jersey, reaffirmed his administration's commitment to environmental protection, and articulated the administration's opposition to Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facilities off the New Jersey coastline. Earth Day 2010 marks the 40th Anniversary of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, created through legislation sponsored by then Assemblyman Kean.
"I'm very proud of the enormous work that's been accomplished over the last 40 years in New Jersey and across the nation to protect and preserve our environment for future generations," said Governor Chrisite. "From the Jersey Shore to the our state's mountains and farms, New Jersey is home to precious environmental treasures that we are obligated to be good stewards of for our children and grandchildren. My administration takes this responsibility seriously and remains committed to protecting our environment every day."
Since taking office, the Christie Administration has made the environment a priority. In the first 90 days, the Christie Administration has:
* Proposed a Fiscal Year 2011 budget that keeps all parks, historic sites and wildlife operations running;
* Restored bleach replenishment funding to its full level;
* Worked to accelerate development of off-shore wind projects by working closely with the Department of Interior and MMS to speed implementation of 1,000 megawatt wind turbines;
* Continued to advocate a strong position against dredging of the Delaware River, both in the courts and publically; and
* Stated clear opposition to off-shore drilling in New Jersey, as well as drilling off the coast of other states that could negatively impact New Jersey's waters and beaches, such as Delaware and Virginia.
Today, Governor Christie added to his administration's environmental protection accomplishments by announcing his opposition to LNG facilities off of New Jersey's coastline. Under the Deepwater Port Act, the Governor of an adjacent coastal state has significant veto power over an LNG project.
"New Jersey's energy future lies in utilizing and encouraging the development of new, innovative technology in the renewable energy industry. And though natural gas is a critical piece of our state's energy strategy, I remain unconvinced of the need and efficacy of these facilities, or their ability to lower prices for consumers," said Governor Christie. "As a result, it remains unclear as to why our state should assume the environmental risks associated with these projects when the trade-off is weak at best. My administration is committed to bringing down energy costs for New Jersey families, creating jobs in these emerging industries and satisfying our growing energy needs with sources right here in the Garden State. LNG facilities, however, are not the answer for New Jersey's needs."

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20100422b.html
