Public Statements
Energy as Industry Governor Christie Outlines A New Approach To Make Renewable Energy A Key To New Jersey's Economic Recovery & Growth
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 20, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today outlined an energy policy for the state of New Jersey that emphasizes in-state production of renewable and traditional energy sources to create a stronger economy and jobs by making energy more affordable, more reliable, and more often produced by New Jersey workers.
"In order to make New Jersey a home for growth once again, we must have a competitive and affordable climate for families and businesses, while also leveraging our state's vast resources and innovation to engage businesses in new and growing industries. Today, we have a unique opportunity to change the way we produce, distribute and use energy as part of a broader effort to build a strong foundation for our economy," said Governor Christie. "As families struggle with ever-increasing energy bills and businesses try to stay afloat, the need for reliable supplies of energy at affordable and predictable prices could not be greater. My responsibility as Governor, and our shared responsibility to future generations, is to manage energy in a manner that saves money, stimulates the economy, creates jobs and protects the environment."
In remarks to the Board of Public Utilities (BPU) Sustainable Energy Forum in New Brunswick, Governor Christie directed BPU President Lee Solomon to revisit the New Jersey Energy Master Plan in the light of current economic conditions and the financial realities we all face. While already ambitious in its targets, the Plan must serve as a realistic map that will guide New Jersey towards a responsible energy future; one in which we find stable, predictable energy prices, a reduction in overall energy expenditures for all consumer classes, and a reduction in energy use.
Making Renewable Energy A Key To New Jersey's Economic Growth:
Reducing The Cost Of Energy For Families And Businesses. To reduce the cost of energy, we have to reduce the consumption of energy. Focusing on increased efficiencies will lead to increased energy savings. This is as simple as energy-efficient light bulbs, windows, insulation, and appliances. The cheapest power is the power we don't have to generate, distribute and deliver.
Applying "Made In NJ" To Our Energy Needs. Currently, NJ only produces just over 50% of the energy that we use. Home grown sources must include wind and solar, particularly off-shore wind. The NJ coastline is optimal for installation of off-shore wind farms and we need to take steps to promote that industry, but as we do so it has to be with the understanding that production of renewable energy is presently very expensive. To reduce those costs, to homes and businesses, we need to promote research into storage of the energy produced by solar panels and wind turbines.
Marketing New Jersey For Renewable Energy Production. Using the New Jersey Partnership for Action, the state will actively reach out to the renewable energy companies that are seeking to manufacture parts and make our state a home for growth. Choose New Jersey will promote New Jersey's skilled workforce, technology base, manufacturing base and port facilities.
BPU President Solomon will immediately begin this work by assembling a team to review and revise the Energy Master Plan to create the map to a New Jersey with predictable energy prices, lower overall energy costs, and a reduction in energy use. The revisions should be complete in about nine months.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20100420a.html
