Public Statements
Letter to Chairmen Conrad and Spratt and Ranking Members Gregg and Ryan
Letter
By: Martin O'Malley Mike Rounds Chet Culver David Paterson Arnold Schwarzenegger Bill Ritter, Jr. Jim Doyle III Jack Markell Ed Rendell Bev Perdue Ted Kulongoski Chris Christie Phil Bredesen Chris Gregoire Jim Douglas Steve Beshear Ted Strickland Dave Freudenthal Joe Manchin III Bob Riley Pat Quinn Brad Henry Mark Parkinson Jodi Rell Deval Patrick
Date: April 15, 2010
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Building on the enactment of national health care reform, Governor Edward G. Rendell today joined 24 other governors in a bipartisan call to the leaders and ranking members of the U.S. House and Senate budget committees to approve the 3.2 percent funding increase for the National Institutes of Health. The increase is part of President Obama's budget request.
"We can find a cure for cancer, but it is not going to happen by accident. America's leading researchers in hospitals, universities and industry cannot do their jobs without support from the NIH," the Governor said.
"The added bonus is that the NIH is an important national, regional and economic engine that directly supports 350,000 jobs across the nation. In Pennsylvania, we see indirect job benefits from laboratories needing space, supplies, services and equipment. And NIH-funded discoveries are the basis for new companies and even new industries in our communities."
In 2009, Pennsylvania received more than $1.65 billion, the fourth-highest level of NIH funding for any state. That included $278 million of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, or ARRA, funds channeled through NIH which funded 807 projects. More than $1.38 billion of regular NIH funds paid for an additional 3,394 projects in the state.
Projects being funded by the NIH include studies of gene therapy, obesity, neurological disorders, cardiovascular disease, aging, chronic disease, and cancer. Institutions throughout the state, including the University of Pittsburgh, the University of Pennsylvania, Geisinger Health System and Penn State Hershey Medical Center, have received awards.




































Source:
