Public Statements
NJ.com: Cumberland County welcomes Boeing to Millville Airport
News Article
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 7, 2010
Location: Millville, NJ

By Jason Laday
Gov. Chris Christie and other state, regional and local officials praised what they called the beginning of a state-wide economic recovery at a ribbon cutting ceremony opening a Boeing aircraft modification facility at Millville Municipal Airport.
Officials ranging from Millville Mayor Tim Shannon to state Senate President Steve Sweeney heralded the new Boeing facility as a major development, not only for a struggling state, but also for Cumberland County, which is currently wallowing in 13 percent unemployment.
"Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost in the private sector in New Jersey, but turning that around starts with one win," said Christie, addressing a crowd of officials and Boeing representatives inside Hangar No. 1 at Millville Municipal Airport Wednesday afternoon.

Behind him loomed a large CH-47F Chinook helicopter -- the craft workers at the Boeing facility will be modifying.
"This is a big win, for a company like Boeing to come and plant roots here," said the governor. "While unemployment is bad throughout the state, it has hit this area particularly, and as I sit in my office I know those figures hit this area disproportionately."
Later, he added, "It's now our job to continue the winning streak."
The new facility went operational earlier this month, and had just shipped out its first Chinook helicopter overseas on Monday, according to workers present at the ceremony.
Currently, there are 20 employees at the site -- all transplants from Boeing's plant in Philadelphia. At least two of the workers are local to Cumberland County, they said.
Raymond Haddad, director of Chinook Worldwide Programs for Boeing, stated the company plans to work through local employment centers and colleges to bring in more workers to the facility.
"We're going to be phasing up to a little more than 40 employees up to the end of the year," said Haddad. "From there, we expect more growth over time."
Elected officials from across the county have stated the program will bring 100 new jobs to the area.
Boeing in February approved a deal with the Delaware River & Bay Authority to lease two hangars at Millville Municipal Airport for four years, with the option of four additional years, to perform modification work on CH-47F Chinook helicopters.
Boeing officials have stated work at the Millville airport will include 10 modifications to each of the brand-new Chinook helicopters, including the installation of infrared suppression systems to protect against heat-seeking missiles, before they are sent to Afghanistan and Iraq.
According to the DRBA, Boeing will lease the airport's Air Castle and Multi-use hangars, totaling approximately 78,500 square feet, including office and shop space. Boeing would pay $549,500 in rent for the first year, with a 2-percent rent increase each following year.
The deal includes $270,000 in security and technology upgrades for the airport and hangars, to be paid for by the DRBA and later reimbursed by Boeing.
The DRBA has also agreed to install seven concrete-anchored helicopter tie-downs at a cost of $42,000, half of which would be paid back by Boeing.

Source: http://www.nj.com/cumberland/index.ssf/2010/04/cumberland_county_welcomes_boe.html
