Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie, U. S. Representative Rob Andrews, State Senate President Steve Sweeney and Acting DEP Commissioner Bob Martin Speak Out Against Planned Dredging of the Delaware River
Press Release
By: Rob Andrews Stephen Sweeney Chris Christie
Date: March 1, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Redoubling their efforts to protect South Jersey's environment, Governor Chris Christie and Department of Environmental Protection Acting Commissioner Bob Martin today joined forces with U.S. Representative Rob Andrews and state Senate President Stephen M. Sweeney to oppose the Army Corps of Engineers' plan to deepen the Delaware River's shipping channel and vowed to keep fighting the project.
"We are standing our ground because it is the right thing to do for South Jersey," Governor Christie said during a news conference at Red Bank Battlefield, a Revolutionary War fort along the river in Gloucester County. "Congressman Andrews and Senator Sweeney have fought this project long and hard - and for good reason. The Army Corps expects South Jersey to bear the environmental burden for a project that doesn't make economic sense."
"By taking actions to deepen the Delaware, not only has the Army Corps of Engineers chosen to ignore mandatory environmental regulations but they are placing the health and well-being of our residents at stake," said Congressman Andrews, who represents the First District. "I applaud Governor Christie for standing up against this enormous waste of taxpayer dollars and reckless attempt to dump millions of tons of spoils on South Jersey."
"For all the years of reports and discussions, South Jersey still has never received an acceptable answer to how this dredging project will benefit our communities," Senate President Sweeney said. "South Jersey will not be Pennsylvania's dredge dump and we will not benefit from a project that has such questionable economic ties. I have been fighting this battle since 1998, and have always been able to count on allies like Congressman Andrews and my legislative colleagues. I want to thank the Christie administration for joining this battle we've been waging for so long on behalf of South Jersey."

Source:
