Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces Trenton Quality-of-Life Improvements
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 14, 2017
Location: Trenton, NJ

Continuing his ongoing commitment to the revitalization of New Jersey's capital city, Governor Chris Christie today announced an economic growth initiative to develop a new park along the Delaware River and connect it to downtown Trenton via a pedestrian bridge.
"By transforming one of the city's greatest assets, the historic and scenic Delaware River riverfront, into a linear park, we open up a world of passive and active recreation opportunities to attract more people, employers, workers and visitors to Trenton," Governor Christie said. "At one time, people could stroll along the river, after visiting the State House and copious other downtown attractions and establishments. The new Trenton Falls Park and pedestrian bridge will make the riverfront easily accessible to the downtown once again and help restore the capital to its former glory. Our efforts will benefit current residents, businesses and the state's economy."
The more than five-mile west boundary of Trenton is bordered by the Delaware River, yet 84,000 Trentonians, along with tens of thousands of local employees and visitors, are completely disconnected from the river and its tremendous potential.
The Department of Transportation will use an estimated $15 million in existing Transportation Enhancement funds to construct a pedestrian walkway bridge from the roof of the State House parking garage over Route 29 to a 4.5-acre strip of land that will be developed into a park by the Department of Environmental Protection (DEP). The bridge will provide access to a part of the Trenton waterfront separated from the downtown area since the 1950s when Route 29 was developed. That highway replaced a portion of Stacy Park, which still exists north of the downtown area, and included recreation areas in front of the Trenton War Memorial and behind the State House and State House Annex, stretching to the Delaware River.
The DEP will use an estimated $3.5 million in Natural Resource Damages funds to pay for the development of Trenton Falls Park, which will include upgrades such as planting, paths and lighting. Through signs and wayfinding, the new riverfront park will connect to several downtown destinations, including Stacy Park to the north, Mill Hill Park and the site of Assunpink Creek daylighting.
The idea to build the park was developed through the DEP's Community Collaborative Initiative (CCI), which was recently extended to Trenton after having success in Camden. CCI works closely with diverse partners in urban communities to support their vision for revitalization and growth.
The Trenton waterfront is steeped in history. It is the location of where John Fitch demonstrated the first steamboat. The Port of Trenton was located just south of Waterfront Park, the Trenton Thunder baseball stadium, through the 1950s and was the highest navigable point on the Delaware River. In addition, the Trenton Farmers Market was originally located on what is now a parking lot near the Department of Education's riverfront offices.
Yesterday, DEP Commissioner Bob Martin and Trenton Mayor Eric E. Jackson broke ground on a Trenton revitalization project at Cadwalader Park. The $2.4 million project involves improvements that will restore the 125-year-old park as a regional attraction and destination. DEP's Green Acres Program is providing $1.2 million of the project cost as a grant to the city. Green Acres is funding another nearly $1.1 million of the balance as an interest-free loan to the city, and Trenton will fund the remaining balance of $120,000.
In May, Governor Christie announced a package of initiatives to improve safety in Trenton. These projects include demolishing 400 to 500 vacant, abandoned and blighted properties; installing up to 150 additional surveillance cameras; improving street lighting; enhancing after-hours enforcement near bars and bodegas; and supplementing the efforts and resources of the Trenton Police Department with coverage around the Trenton Transportation Center by NJ TRANSIT police and the Attorney General's Office Shooting Response Team.
Click here for more about the Governor's seven-plus years of working to help accomplish a Trenton renaissance.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/news_archive.html
