Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Announces Appointments for Children and Family Services and Motor Vehicle Commission
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Feb. 1, 2010
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie continued to build a qualified, experienced team with the announcement of two additional cabinet positions today. Governor Christie nominated Dr. Janet Rosenzweig as Commissioner of Children and Families and Raymond Martinez as the Chair and Chief Administrator of the Motor Vehicle Commission.
Governor Christie said, "Dr. Rosenzweig and Mr. Martinez both have distinguished careers serving the public and I have no doubt their excellent track records will continue in my Administration. These strong, experienced leaders will ensure that these key agencies are run effectively and efficiently."
Dr. Janet Rosenzweig, Commissioner of Children and Families
Dr. Rosenzweig is currently a consultant, specializing in Health, Human Services and Social Administration. Her primary assignment is a contract as the Acting Executive Director of The Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality, a professional membership society; and the publisher of the peer-reviewed journals, The Journal of Sex Research and the Annual Review of Sex Research. Other assignments include public health analysis for a pharmaceutical company and teaching in Harvard's Kennedy School non-credit communications program. Dr. Rosenzweig is also a Visiting Associate Professor at the Montclair State University Center for Child Advocacy, where she teaches graduate courses on various aspects of child advocacy.
From September 2001 until July 2007 Dr. Rosenzweig was the Executive Director for Prevent Child Abuse, NJ. As the chief operating officer of the New Jersey affiliate of PCA-America; she managed multiple statewide early childhood/family support programs, including Healthy Families Visiting, Abbot Pre-school services and Parents as Teachers. She managed a budget of $3.9 million and a staff of 40.
Prior to her work with Prevent Child Abuse Dr. Rosenzweig was the Director for the Mercer County Department of Human Services. As Director, Dr. Rosenzweig was directly responsible for the largest Department in Mercer County Government, including Divisions on Mental Health, Child and Family Services, Senior and Community Services and participated in the full County administration. She was elected Chair of State Association of County Human Service Directors in 1994 and held the position until 2001.
Dr. Rosenzweig has served on a number of statewide Public Service Boards and Committees: The Child Care Advisory Council, where she served on the executive council and staff development subcommittee; Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Incentive for Parents (TIP) Planning and Management group, where she developed and managed support services to new parents who were receiving TANF. Other boards and committees include The Prevention Subcommittee of the New Jersey Task Force on Child Abuse and Neglect, The Early Childhood Comprehensive Systems Executive Committee, The Statewide Coordinating Committee on Home Visitation Services, Strengthening Families through Early Care and Education, The New Jersey County Human Services Directions Association and Best Practices in Local Human Services.
Dr. Rosenzweig has held teaching positions at numerous institutions including Rider University, The College of New Jersey, Rutgers University and Penn State University.
Dr. Rosenzweig received her BS and MS from Pennsylvania State University, Her PhD in Social Work from Rutgers University and her MPA from the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University.
Dr. Rosenzweig currently resides in Yardley, Pa.
Raymond Martinez, Chair and Chief Administrator of the Motor Vehicle Commission
Mr. Martinez was most recently the Deputy U.S. Chief of Protocol and Diplomatic Affairs for the U.S. Department of State and the White House. Mr. Martinez was responsible for managing five operational divisions: Diplomatic Affairs, Foreign Visits, Ceremonial Events, Blair House, and Administration. In addition he served as counsel on diplomatic immunity issues pursuant to U.S. and international law. He managed a staff of 70 and an annual budget of $8 million.
From December 2000 to December 2005, Mr. Martinez served as the Commissioner for the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles. The NY Motor Vehicle Commission is a state agency that served more than 20 million customers per year and generated over $1 billion in annual revenues. Mr. Martinez served as Chairman of the Governor's Traffic Safety Committee, administering of $50 million annually in federal funds for state and local highway safety projects.
Prior to serving on the NY Motor Vehicle Commission, Mr. Martinez was the Assistant General Counsel for the Long Island Power Authority, one of the largest public utilities in the nation.
He has been a member of the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA) and served as President of AAMVA, Region I (Mid-Atlantic and New England States & Northeast Canadian Provinces) in 2005.
Mr. Martinez received his BA from Long Island University/ C.W. Post College, in Greenvale, NY. He holds a JD from St. John's University School of Law.
Mr. Martinez lives in Middletown, NJ.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552010/approved/20100201.html
