Public Statements
Pipe Trades Endorse Governor Corzine For Re-Election
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 23, 2009
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Jon S. Corzine today welcomed the New Jersey State Association of Pipe Trades endorsement of his bid for re-election.

"I have worked with the New Jersey State Association of Pipe Trades and its members throughout my many years of public service," GovGovernor Jon S. Corzine today welcomed the New Jersey State Association of Pipe Trades endorsement of his bid for re-election.

"I have worked with the New Jersey State Association of Pipe Trades and its members throughout my many years of public service," Governor Corzine said. "I am always struck by the Pipe Trades' demonstrated passion for our shared values: good, family-sustaining jobs achieved through balanced economic development, access to health care and a guaranteed retirement income for its members and economic growth. I am thankful for their continued support and endorsement."

"Governor Corzine recognizes the important role the construction industry plays in New Jersey's economy providing good, high-paying jobs for skilled workers," said Jim Kehoe, President of the New Jersey State Association of Pipe Trades. "The Governor understands the real needs of working families and his commitment to the enforcement of our state's Prevailing Wage law will ensure these investments result in quality construction performed by skilled craftsmen."

"Having a strong partner and ally in Governor Corzine is essential if we want to continue moving New Jersey and the country in the right direction," said Kehoe. "New Jersey cannot afford to elect a Governor who will play partisan politics and deny New Jerseyans much needed federal recovery act funds which will put people back to work. Unlike Chris Christie or Republican Governors Palin, Jindal or Sanford, who all said they would not accept federal Recovery Act funds that total $17.5 billion - of which nearly $1.6 billion are in construction projects - Governor Corzine has partnered with President Obama to create jobs, put people back to work and improve our economy. Re-electing Governor Corzine will help us continue moving forward with these efforts and lead New Jersey to a brighter future."

President Kehoe also cited the Governor's emphasis on growing the "green" economy, as well as his strong support for NJ PLACE, which awards college credits for approved apprenticeship training, and the Helmets to Hardhats program, which helps transition U.S. military women and minority veterans into construction industry employment, as reasons for the endorsement.ernor Corzine said. "I am always struck by the Pipe Trades' demonstrated passion for our shared values: good, family-sustaining jobs achieved through balanced economic development, access to health care and a guaranteed retirement income for its members and economic growth. I am thankful for their continued support and endorsement."

"Governor Corzine recognizes the important role the construction industry plays in New Jersey's economy providing good, high-paying jobs for skilled workers," said Jim Kehoe, President of the New Jersey State Association of Pipe Trades. "The Governor understands the real needs of working families and his commitment to the enforcement of our state's Prevailing Wage law will ensure these investments result in quality construction performed by skilled craftsmen."

"Having a strong partner and ally in Governor Corzine is essential if we want to continue moving New Jersey and the country in the right direction," said Kehoe. "New Jersey cannot afford to elect a Governor who will play partisan politics and deny New Jerseyans much needed federal recovery act funds which will put people back to work. Unlike Chris Christie or Republican Governors Palin, Jindal or Sanford, who all said they would not accept federal Recovery Act funds that total $17.5 billion - of which nearly $1.6 billion are in construction projects - Governor Corzine has partnered with President Obama to create jobs, put people back to work and improve our economy. Re-electing Governor Corzine will help us continue moving forward with these efforts and lead New Jersey to a brighter future."

President Kehoe also cited the Governor's emphasis on growing the "green" economy, as well as his strong support for NJ PLACE, which awards college credits for approved apprenticeship training, and the Helmets to Hardhats program, which helps transition U.S. military women and minority veterans into construction industry employment, as reasons for the endorsement.

Source: http://www.joncorzine09.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&categoryKey=press&htmlID=13858&s=corzine
