Public Statements
CNN "The Situation Room" - Transcript
Interview
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 21, 2009
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Christie, thanks very much for coming in. We all have some good questions for you.
But it's -- how tough is it when the president of the United States, who's very popular in New Jersey, comes into your state at this moment to try to beat you?
CHRIS CHRISTIE (R), NEW JERSEY GUBERNATORIAL CANDIDATE: Well, listen, Wolf, it's a great day for New Jersey whenever the president of the United States comes here and our citizens get to see him. And, so, I think it's a great day for the state to have the president here.
But here's one thing the people of the state of New Jersey know. They know that Air Force One is leaving tonight and that, if they vote for Jon Corzine, President Obama is not going to come to the statehouse and run the state. We're going to be stuck with Jon Corzine.
And so I think the president being here is nice, but this race is between me and Jon Corzine.
BLITZER: How close is this race? We have seen polls showing he's slightly ahead.
CHRISTIE: Yes. I think the latest public polls have us about two points ahead. It's going to be a close race. We have always known it would be a close race.
But consider this. Barack Obama won this state by 15 points last November. There are 700,000 more registered Democrats than Republicans, and the governor has outspent me 3-1, and I am still ahead in the polls with 13 days to go. Things are going well here for us in New Jersey.
GLORIA BORGER, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Mr. Christie, this is Gloria Borger here.
You have been dogged by all kinds of ethics concerns that have been raised during this campaign. And now Senator Lautenberg is calling for an investigation into whether or not you used your office for political gain.
Can you answer that charge right now here that you didn't have someone in your office to whom you loaned $46,000 work on your behalf politically?
CHRISTIE: That's absolutely, absolutely false.
Senator Lautenberg should spend time trying to get federal money back to New Jersey, since we rank 50th in America in the return on our federal tax dollars, and less time playing politics in a gubernatorial election.
There's no truth to any of that. My office has -- my old office has an extraordinary record over the last seven years and since I have left in fighting crime in New Jersey of all kinds. And this is just the kind of personal smear politics that the Corzine campaign has been playing ever since the primary was over. And we have broad shoulders, and we're used to it.
JOE JOHNS, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Mr. Christie, it's Joe Johns.
There is a certain coziness to the story and the way it's been written. My question to you is, while you were running that office, did you set up a fire wall specifically saying that people like Michele Brown, your friends and others would not dabble in your campaign while they were working for the prosecutor's office?
CHRISTIE: Well, listen, I wasn't campaigning while I was in the prosecutor's office. And so the fact of the matter is, after I left and I resigned as U.S. attorney in December of 2008, I went off to decide what I wanted to do, decided I ran for governor.
And the folks back there continued to do the work that they did, the very good work of prosecuting all kinds of cases in New Jersey. And, so, the fact of the matter is, they did their job and I'm doing mine now.
JOHNS: So, you never asked her to help you?
CHRISTIE: No, sir.
BLITZER: John King, go ahead.
JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Mr. Christie, a couple of questions about the role of government relevant to the big debates right now.
Number one, do you think governors -- you want to be a governor -- need the public option or at least the state option of a public option in health insurance to provide competition to the insurance companies? And on the big issue Wolf started the show with, is it appropriate for the president of the United States and the federal government to be trying to regulate what they believe to be excessive pay? Many of the workers in the financial industry would live in your state of New Jersey if you were the governor. CHRISTIE: Well, listen, on the health care, I do not favor a public option. I think there are a lot of other things that we can do on health care reform and not have a public option. That's not something that I would favor, nor do I think it would be something that would be good for the state of New Jersey for the federal government to do.
Secondly, on regulating excessive pay, listen, I think that having broad kind of regulations on the way private industry works is not the way we should do it in this country. Do we need to look at those companies that have taken bailout money? Absolutely.
But, for those folks who have not taken bailout money, those kind of broader regulations, I don't think that's what the capitalism is all about.
BLITZER: Do you describe yourself, Mr. Christie, as a moderate or conservative Republican?
CHRISTIE: Listen, those kind of labels, quite frankly, mean very little here in the state of New Jersey.
I'm a Republican. I have talked about wanting to have smaller government, lower taxes. And I will leave the labeling to the pundits. I'm somebody who absolutely believes in the core Republican principles of smaller government, lower taxes, and allowing the entrepreneurial spirit in this state to grow, so we can finally grow private sector jobs, because now we have the highest unemployment we have had in the 33 years.
And we're the highest in the region, higher than New York or Connecticut, higher than Pennsylvania or Delaware. New Jersey is in bad shape because of Jon Corzine's policies. And we need a change.
BLITZER: And I want to play this ad -- I know you've seen it -- a lot of people in New Jersey have seen it -- from the Corzine campaign, Mr. Christie, because it calls -- it suggests that you're overweight. And I'm going to play the ad and then we will talk about this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, CORZINE FOR GOVERNOR AD)
NARRATOR: Christie threw his weight around as U.S. attorney and got off easy.
If you didn't pay your taxes, ignored ethics laws, would you get away with it?
Chris Christie, one set of rules for himself, another for everyone else.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BLITZER: You saw the ad, I'm sure. "Christie threw his weight around."
CHRISTIE: Yes.
BLITZER: Then they have a picture of you walking out of a car, clearly a few pounds overweight.
But how do you respond to that kind of stuff?
CHRISTIE: Well, listen, I will let all of your audience in on a little secret, Wolf. I'm overweight. And I have struggled with my weight for the last 30 years on and off. And that's the way it is.
And, so, I think there's a lot of people out in New Jersey who have the same kind of struggles. And I think that kind of stuff is just beneath the office the governor holds.
And the worst part of it is that he won't even admit that is what he's doing. You all just saw the ad. It's obvious what they're trying to do.
But, when confronted about it, the governor denies it and says that there's nothing -- nothing meant by those ads.
Listen, I think we should talk about important issue of why New Jersey is 50th in terms of affordability in taxes in the country, why our unemployment is so high, why we have so little job creation in the state, worse than any state in the region. Those are the things we should be talking about. I'm willing to admit to the governor that I'm overweight and will continue to try to work on it.
BORGER: Do you think President Obama is more or less of a political asset than he would have been for Jon Corzine, say, six months ago?
CHRISTIE: Oh, geez, I don't know, Gloria.
BORGER: Yes, you do.
(LAUGHTER)
CHRISTIE: That's the kind of thing -- polls go -- no, listen, polls up and down. Polls go up and down.
I think there's a lot of people who have a great deal of respect for the president here in New Jersey. There's a lot of folks who disagree with some of the things he's doing and agree with others.
In the end, this race is about me and Jon Corzine. It's great to have the president in New Jersey, as I said. And I'm sure the governor is glad to have him here, too. But he's going to leave tonight. And when he leaves, it's going to be me and Jon Corzine. We're going to be the choices of who's going to be the next governor.
And I think that is what people in New Jersey will really focus on.
BLITZER: The president of the United States, by the way, Mr. Christie, he's getting ready to speak right now. I assume he's going to thank a lot of his supporters out there.
Actually, he already is. Let's listen in, Mr. Christie. I want you to listen briefly to the president, and we will get your reaction.
(JOINED IN PROGRESS)
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Jon is running for reelection during a challenging time for New Jersey and for America.
I don't have to tell you that. You have seen it in your own lives. You have seen it in your own communities. There are too many folks who are out of work and too many people who are looking for a job. There are too many hardworking families being squeezed by skyrocketing costs on the one side and shrinking wages on the other.
We have got men and women who have worked hard all their lives, who have done the right thing, all their lives, and now they're worried they won't be able to be the kinds of husbands and wives, mothers and fathers they had hoped to be because of economic factors beyond their control, seniors worried about whether they can stay on retirement, young people worried about whether they're going to be able to afford a college education.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
OBAMA: So, I know these are challenging times. And Jon knows these are challenging times.
I know folks are hurting, but I also know this. For the past four years, you have had an honorable man at the helm of this state during one of the most difficult periods in its history. You have had a leader who has put the interests of hardworking New Jersey families ahead of the special interests.
You have had a leader who has fought for what matters most to the people of New Jersey. That's the kind of Jon -- the kind of governor that Jon Corzine's been. That's the kind of governor that Jon Corzine will continue to be.
BLITZER: All right, so there you hear the president making the case for Jon Corzine.
Chris Christie, the main challenger to Governor Corzine, how do you respond to the president?
CHRISTIE: Well, listen, the president is right. These are awful times in New Jersey. We have the highest tax-burden state in America. We have the highest unemployment in the region.
We have had no private sector job growth under Jon Corzine. He diagnoses the problem correctly. I just think that Jon Corzine is not the solution. And I think the people of the state of New Jersey know that we have to get back to the policies that will lower taxes, cut spending in New Jersey, not continue to grow taxes.
President -- the governor, rather, has promised a billion-dollar tax increase next year. He said he would be happy to raise the gas tax. This is already the most heavily tax-burdened citizens in America.
I just think the president diagnoses the problem correctly, but his prescription is wrong. Jon Corzine is not the guy you want for the next four years, if you want New Jersey to get back on the right track.
BLITZER: Chris Christie, we will thank you very much for coming in.
And we will invite Governor Corzine to join us here in THE SITUATION ROOM as well.
Appreciate it. We will be watching that election very closely. Thanks very much.
CHRISTIE: Wolf, thanks for the opportunity.
Thanks everyone else for your questions.
BLITZER: Thank you, Chris Christie.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0910/21/sitroom.03.html
