Public Statements
Wall Street Journal - Politics Of Job Creation At Work In New Jersey
News Article
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 15, 2009
Location: Unknown

Every politician in the land is laying claim to creating jobs in his or her kingdom. Each claims great success, but can't seem to explain why unemployment is growing. In New Jersey, home to a particularly nasty governor's race, Republican challenger Chris Christie released a memo, obtained from the governor's office, pointing out what appears to be a desperate effort to account for every job created.
New Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine. (Getty Images)
The Christie campaign cited an Oct. 5 memo, sent by Mark Matzen, Gov. Jon Corzine's deputy chief of staff, to cabinet members:
"We are asking all departments to come up with an event or two or three that show job creation or economic development in the private sector. I know that it might be a stretch for some of you, but please be creative. While many programs might not [create] jobs directly, they do have some connection to job creation either through training, giving money to sustain employment or create demand for workers. Many of you already have events on your schedule for next week that can be shaped into a job creation message."
Zipping an excerpt of the memo to reporters, Christie's camp poked fun at the central planning being done to put the best gloss on the state's weak fortunes. "Orchestrating events to tout the creation of nonexistent jobs is not going to change the fact we are inching even closer to a 10% unemployment rate," Mr. Christie said.
The rest of the memo, released by the Corzine press office, shows the central planning at work: "These events are designed to create stories in weeklies as well as daily newspapers" it reads.
Steve Sigmund, a spokesman for the governor, blithely rejected the Christie campaign's reading of the memo and its dissemination as some sort of damning evidence. "We are communicating completely appropriately about the administration's efforts to build up New Jersey," Mr. Sigmund said.
The memo urges staff to meet a deadline. "Please get your event proposals to Tim Lydon  He is coordinating the week's events to ensure geographic diversity and timing." For an administration that's been accused of being asleep and blundering, the memo shows there's some planning afoot. Maybe not the read that Christie's people were hoping for.

Source: http://blogs.wsj.com/economics/2009/10/15/politics-of-job-creation-at-work-in-new-jersey/
