Public Statements
NJ.com - Chris Christie Hammers Corzine, Daggett for Tax Plans
News Article
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 9, 2009
Location: East Windsor, NJ

By Chris Megerian/Statehouse Bureau
Republican candidate Chris Christie today hammered what he called the "Corzine-Daggett" plan to raise taxes in New Jersey.
"This is a state that is no longer competitive from a tax perspective," Christie said at a Holiday Inn in East Windsor. "We can not afford to raise any more taxes."
Christie seized upon comments Corzine made Thursday to The Star-Ledger's editorial board, signaling he may extend a one-year increase on the income taxes of top wage-earners for another year to raise $1 billion. That was among a series of moves outlined by Corzine to close an estimated $8 billion deficit, including continuing a hiring freeze for state employees and accepting more federal stimulus money. Corzine has criticized Christie for being too vague with his own budget plans.
Corzine has criticized Christie's proposals as too vague and unrealistic. In a statement released today by the governor's campaign, Sen. Paul Sarlo (D-Bergen) said Christie's plan would hurt the middle class.
"Christie can talk all he wants about tax relief, but he would target it to the very wealthy and big corporations, leaving no funds for middle class property tax relief," Sarlo said.
Christie's offensive was also notable for its focus on Daggett, a lesser-known independent candidate who has been a thorn in the Republican's side by criticizing a lack of specifics in his tax plan.
Daggett proposed dropping property taxes by up to 25 percent per homeowner and to pay for that by expanding the sales tax to cover household and professional services.
Christie has criticized that plan as a tax increase.
Daggett spokesman Tom Johnson fired back at Christie this afternoon.
"Chris Christie has no vision for the state," he said. "We're the only campaign to frame a plan to cut property taxes."
Johnson said some polls have shown Daggett, a former state and federal environmental official, taking more votes from Christie than Corzine.
"We're rising in the polls and people want some answers, and the Christie campaign doesn't have any," he said.
He found a friendly audience in the New Jersey Builders Association, which gave Christie a standing ovation at the end of his speech.
During the speech, the loudest applause came when Christie pledged to freeze new state regulations for 90 days after taking office and launch a review to eliminate "onerous and useless" regulations on businesses.
"Business needs to be encouraged," he said. "Business needs to be hugged and loved."
By lowering taxes, Christie said, the state will increase tax revenue by attracting more businesses and residents.

Source: http://www.nj.com/news/index.ssf/2009/10/chris_christie_hammers_corzine.html
