Public Statements
Jon Corzine's Latest Photo-Op All Smiles, No Action When It Comes To School Choice
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 2, 2009
Location: Unknown

Jon Corzine's latest photo-op today is just another opportunity for the governor to flash a smile for the cameras without having to talk about his failed record when it comes to promoting successful school alternatives, like the Community Charter School in Paterson. Governor Corzine is more than willing to show up when cameras are around, but it won't erase the fact that for the last four years he has failed to provide real choice and school alternatives for families in struggling school districts.
Throughout the state, school districts are continuing to fail and Jon Corzine has responded to the problem by green lighting their wasteful budgets without requiring change or offering new solutions-simply sticking by failed big-government bureaucracies and failed school boards running their local schools into the ground. So while Jon Corzine puts on a good show at his photo-ops with charter school children, his record has been anything but supportive of school choice alternatives. In 2008, the Corzine Administration's Department of Education approved only one charter school, despite 22 applications.
Chris Christie stated: "Governor Corzine doesn't waste any time making sure to insert himself into photo-ops to try and take credit for something he didn't do. Perhaps if Jon Corzine had spent more time over the last four years fighting for the creation and funding of charter schools, he would have had a real reason to be in Paterson today instead of mugging it up for a campaign photo. Under my Administration, charter schools will be a real priority regardless of whether its political season."
New Jersey's children deserve an education that will prepare them to compete in a 21st century workplace. In order to guarantee universal access to quality schools, New Jersey must ensure parents have the choice to send their children to successful schools and the support to convert their local failing schools into successful charter schools.
A Christie-Guadagno Administration will commit to the following reforms to expand school choice for New Jersey's children:
Increase Resources at the Department of Education for Charter School Implementation. A Christie-Guadagno Administration will devote increased resources to assist parents and educators attempting to start new charter schools, as well as provide guidance and oversight throughout the charter school incorporation process.
Appoint a Commissioner of the Department of Education to Oversee Charter School Approvals. In 2008, the Corzine Administration approved only one charter school, despite twenty-two applications. Under a Christie-Guadagno Administration, a new Commissioner will be created to oversee and prioritize the approval of high-quality charter school applications.
Eliminate Undue School Board Influence Over Charter School Applications in Failing School Districts. School boards in failing school districts are allowed far too much influence over the charter school application process, which creates a troubling conflict of interest. A Christie-Guadagno Administration will eliminate the role these school boards have over the charter school application process within their respective districts.
Enact Fair Application of School Funding Law to Provide Charter Schools Appropriate Access to Public Funds. If a child needs to leave a failing school to ensure the quality of their education, the state aid for that child's education should follow them to the charter school of their choice. A Christie-Guadagno Administration will assure the public funding provided for each child's education follows them to the school that administers their education.

Source: http://www.christiefornj.com/media/press-releases/345-press-release-jon-corzines-latest-photo-op-all-smiles-no-action-when-it-comes-to-school-choice.html
