Public Statements
In the News: "Help's on the Way': Christie Visits Plainfield, Talks Initiatives"
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: July 15, 2009
Location: Unknown

From CentralJersey.com:
"Daniel McKenna had a simple message for Chris Christie.
"I'll vote for you if you get me a job," said city resident McKenna, who shook hands with the Republican gubernatorial candidate as he took a walking tour of downtown early Tuesday afternoon as part of statewide campaign swing to unveil his initiatives to revive urban centers.
McKenna told Christie he moved to New Jersey from Florida to get a job. "I'm beginning to wonder if I made a mistake," he said.
"Hang in there," Christie told McKenna, shaking his hand, then moving east on Front Street to visit small businesses to deliver the message that, if he is elected in November, help will be on the way for New Jersey's cities.
He next stopped in front of Muzik 'n Motion to say hello to owner J.M. Benjamin.
The author of five novels, Benjamin briefly told Christie his story. A native of Plainfield, Benjamin served a dozen years in prison for dealing drugs and then turned himself around, started writing books and opened the store.
"You're a perfect example of what can be done," Christie said. "You have to ride out the tough times."
Christie then visited Bill's Luncheonette where he talked to owner Gregory Antonio, who said the economy has affected his business.
"Help is on the way," Christie told Antonio.
Across the street, Christie briefly visited Maritza Boutique, which featured Michael Jackson and Guatemala flag T-shirts, then re-crossed Front Street to stop at Suburban Jewelers, a longtime fixture in downtown Plainfield.
"We're hanging in," Elissa Cohen, the store owner who also served as president of the downtown's special improvement district, told Christie. "The economy is tough. We need change."
Cohen said that some customers are leaving New Jersey because it has become too expensive. She also said that while she feels "very safe," the perception of crime in Plainfield hurts downtown.
Christie assured her that as governor he will focus on cutting taxes and providing incentives for people to both live and do business in the state's cities. A former federal attorney for the state, he also said he will work to have convicted criminals serve their full prison terms and push for other judicial reforms.
In a sidewalk news conference, Christie outlined his "Bringing Back Our Cities" initiative.
The core of the program is the implementation of a CityTrak program, first developed by former New York City Mayor Rudy Guiliani, which will measure progress made in cities on education, economic development and crime. The program will also increase accountability, he said.
Another key to reviving the state's cities is instituting educational reforms, such as approving more charter schools and giving parents and students more options "so they don't have to go to school in a failing district," he said. Christie, who called the state of education in urban school districts a "real tragedy," said he also favors offering merit pay to teachers.
As governor, Christie said he would encourage economic development by combining various existing incentives and tax breaks under one "super zone."
To encourage more people to live in urban areas, new residents within the "super zones" would be exempt from paying state income taxes for two years, he said.
And though Christie said he was not going to win the state's urban areas in November's election, he said he would be a partner with the cities after he is elected.
"After I win, I'll be back in Plainfield," Christie said."

Source: http://www.christiefornj.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=216:helps-on-the-way-christie-visits-plainfield-talks-initiatives&catid=1:latest-news&Itemid=13
