Public Statements
Fox News Channel "Your World" - Transcript
Interview
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 4, 2009
Location: Unknown


Fox News Channel "Your World" - Transcript
Fox News Channel "Your World" Interview With Chris Christie (R), Candidate for New Jersey Governor
Interviewer: Neil Cavuto
Subject: New Jersey Governor's Race
Copyright ©2009 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Carina Nyberg at cnyberg@fednews.com or call 1-202-216-2706.
MR. CAVUTO: All right, note to Republicans in Washington. If you want to get your mojo back, maybe you should take a look at New Jersey and take a close look at this guy because whatever he's doing seems to be working. One of the few Republicans registering in any place right now, Chris Christie is running for governor of the Garden State, a very Democratic state. And in the latest poll, he's leading Democratic incumbent Jon Corzine by some seven points. He is here to chat with me live right now.
Good to have you.
MR. CHRISTIE: Great to be here, Neil.
MR. CAVUTO: We were just chatting. You were nowhere in the polls before you registered after your prosecutor days. You could yell in the forest and no one heard you. Now you're up there, and you're a national target for Democrats.
MR. CHRISTIE: Yeah, listen, Democrats are concerned. And if you had Jon Corzine's record, you'd be concerned, too. Now we're the highest-tax-burdened state in the country, 50th in business-tax climate, 50th in the small-business-survival index, 13 of the 20 most expensive property-tax counties in America are in New Jersey, highest unemployment rate in 16 years. This is not a resume to run for reelection on.
MR. CAVUTO: But you know, Chris -- and I'm a Jersey resident. In fact, you and I are neighbors, I should point out and disclose.
MR. CHRISTIE: Yes.
MR. CAVUTO: Republicans have a knack in New Jersey of late of grabbing defeat from the jaws of victory. And that was no better illustrated during the whole McGreevey disaster. And I'm wondering, if you can't win then, how can you win now?
MR. CHRISTIE: Well, I think what the big difference is is that economically, times were relatively good during the McGreevey disaster, his resignation. And I think Dick Codey came in afterwards and, you know, he's calmed the waters, even though his policies were just as bad as Jim McGreevey's were. But now people are really hurting. I've been traveling all over the state, Neil, for the last four months, and you can hear in people's voices their fear and their pain, and they just don't believe Jon Corzine gets it or hears them. And so I think that's what makes it different this time.
MR. CAVUTO: Nevertheless, we had the man who's going to oppose you in the primary, and he is saying that you're not conservative enough, that you don't have the pedigreed conservative credentials. He'll support you if you win and taken the nomination but that it's going to divide the party. Do you think it's going to divide the party?
MR. CHRISTIE: No, I really don't. And you know, it's unfortunate that Steve keeps saying stuff like that because, you know, I'm the only person in the race, Republican or Democrat, who's saying that we need to cut taxes across the board for everyone, just like Ronald Reagan did.
MR. CAVUTO: But you must be listening to Lonegan a little bit more now because you used to ignore him and now you're not.
MR. CHRISTIE: Well, you're 30 days away from the primary, so it's about time to start engaging. I think what I --
MR. CAVUTO: Is he registering? Are you getting a sense that he is registering on the right?
MR. CHRISTIE: Oh, listen, he's always registered. This guy has been running for office for years. This is his second time running for governor. He's never stopped running from 2005.
MR. CAVUTO: But then Republicans are going to eat each other in the state.
MR. CHRISTIE: No, I don't believe that's going to happen because I believe Steve when he says that after I win the primary on June 2nd that he will support me. And the fact of the matter is he has a tax plan that is going to raise taxes on 70 percent of New Jersians.
MR. CAVUTO: Well, he has this flat-tax plan.
MR. CHRISTIE: Right. Well, it's his tax plan which says 70 percent of New Jersians are going to pay higher income taxes under Steve Lonegan, 75 percent of senior citizens. I'm for a tax plan like Ronald Reagan, like the late Jack Kemp.
MR. CAVUTO: Well, then what do you think of Jon Corzine's plan? You know, states are required to have a balanced budget. And one of the ways he's going to get there is put a surtax on millionaires. And you don't have to be a millionaire to qualify. But would you, if you became governor, erase that, take that out?
MR. CHRISTIE: I would cut taxes across the board for everyone, from the very top of the wage scale down to the very bottom because Ronald Reagan, Jack Kemp and others showed us that that's the way you get real economic growth, and that was the engine of the growth in the 1980s. And in New Jersey as well under Governor Kaine we had 450,000 new jobs, in part because he followed Reagan and Kemp on those tax plans.
MR. CAVUTO: But you also had much better economic times. You're in a big hole right now. And even folks like Jeb Bush have been saying maybe this fixation on Ronald Reagan is overdone, overwrought, just cool it. What do you say?
MR. CHRISTIE: Well, listen, it's not a fixation on Ronald Reagan. It is a commitment to the principles that Reagan stood for, which is lower taxes for everyone is better for the economy in general. What New Jersey should do is to lower taxes now, and that's what I'll do when I'm governor for everyone so that when the economy nationally does start to kick back in we'll be a leader out of the recession, not a laggard. You won't do that by Steve Lonegan's plan of raising taxes on 70 percent of New Jersians.
MR. CAVUTO: Well, and anyone in any of the other 49 states listening to this -- Chris, no offense -- are just saying, what the heck is he talking about? So stepping back, you're kind of giving this image of this new Republican who, if he succeeds this fall and defeats Jon Corzine, is breathing new life into the Republican Party. Now, is he breathing new life into the Republican Party because of his tax stance? As a state prosecutor, for those who don't know, you went after bad guys on the right and the left and were throwing them in jail faster than me at a Wendy's buffet, so you were pretty good at that. What will be your clarion call? What will be the secret of, you know, your mission statement?
MR. CHRISTIE: We have to return to conservative, commonsense values, Neil, and that is cutting taxes and law and order. It's both. Rudy Giuliani showed it here in New York City. He cut taxes, he aggressively cut spending which I will do as well with the line-item veto, and he made law and order.
MR. CAVUTO: But Rudy had a lot of money going for him. You're not a poor guy but you're not nearly as wealthy as Jon Corzine. And he's going to have a lot of money to fight you.
MR. CHRISTIE: He's going to need all that money. You have his record --
MR. CAVUTO: But he's seven point now, and it used to be more, right?
MR. CHRISTIE: Well, it's going to go up and down. But think about this. In the last 10 years, I am the first Republican to lead any Democrat in New Jersey statewide in more than one poll. I've led in the last --
MR. CAVUTO: Do you think if you botch this -- not that I wish you will, fair and balanced, we'd love the governor to come on, too -- but if you botch this, there's no hope for Republicans at all?
MR. CHRISTIE: I'm not going to botch it. I'm going to be the governor come January 2010. There's no question about that. I'm going to win the primary on June 2nd because they've seen the record I have in New Jersey as U.S. attorney, and they know I'm going to get the job done as governor. I'm going to be your governor, Neil.
MR. CAVUTO: And we're going to have security all around our houses. I can't deal with that. (Laughs.) All right, Chris Christie, thank you very much. We'll see you very soon.
END.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcript.htm?id=20090504t3483&nquery=&query=Chris+Christie&from=
