Public Statements
The Star-Ledger - "N.J. Governor Candidate Chris Christie Calls for End of Dual Office Holding"
News Article
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 2, 2009
Location: Unknown


The Star-Ledger - "N.J. Governor Candidate Chris Christie Calls for End of Dual Office Holding"
N.J. governor candidate Chris Christie calls for end of dual office holding
By Claire Heininger/Statehouse Bureau
Using testimony in the federal corruption trial of former Sen. Joseph Coniglio (D-Bergen) as a political springboard, Republican gubernatorial candidate Chris Christie today unveiled a series of proposals he said would make government officials more accountable to the public.
His plans would eliminate dual office-holding at all levels of government, require full disclosure or abstention from legislators with a financial stake in a vote, revoke the pension benefits of convicted ex-public officials, and include labor unions in state pay-to-play laws, among other steps.
During a conference call sprinkled with references to his record as former U.S. Attorney, which included the prosecution of public officials like former Newark Mayor Sharpe James, Christie acknowledged it would be hard to convince lawmakers to back proposals that would limit their influence.
Still, he said New Jersey voters are fed up with politicians abusing their positions.
"I will have the bully pulpit of the governorship and I will use it to make sure pressure is brought to bear on elected officials by their constituents," Christie said.
The strict disclosure policy "is aimed at making sure there are no more Joe Coniglios in the New Jersey state legislature," said Christie, who started the investigation that led to Coniglio's ongoing trial.
Coniglio is accused of helping Hackensack University Medical Center secure millions in state funding in exchange for a lucrative consulting job for the hospital. Coniglio's attorney has said the former senator did nothing wrong and lacked the seniority to commandeer funds in Trenton.
Though Gov. Jon Corzine signed legislation in 2007 banning dual office holding, it only applies to lawmakers elected after February 2008. Politicians who hold two elected offices could continue to hold them until they die, retire or are voted out. Corzine, a Democrat now seeking re-election, at the time said the ban was "not the bill I wanted" but the beginning of the end of the practice.
Christie said he would urge lawmakers to ban anyone with a full-time government job from also holding a salaried elected position.

Source: http://www.nj.com/news/index.ssf/2009/04/nj_governorr_candidate_chris_c.html
