Public Statements
Announcement Speech
By: Chris Christie
Date: Feb. 4, 2009
Location: Unknown


Announcement Speech
Today is one of those days that proves the great possibilities available for each and every citizen of New Jersey. I was born in Newark 46 years ago to young parents struggling to make themselves a good life. To a father who, after serving in the Army, worked at the Breyers Ice Cream plant in Newark while going to Rutgers at night to earn his college degree. To a mom who was raised by a single mother and who believed in hard work and that there were no free rides.
I was brought home to a 4th floor walk up apartment at the corner of South Orange Avenue and 14th Street in Newark by two parents who were committed to working hard enough to give their oldest child the chance to achieve everything possible. New Jersey in 1962 was a place that allowed two people like Bill and Sandy Christie to believe that if they worked hard enough, saved enough, cared enough and dreamed enough that anything was possible for their new son.
So work they did and eventually saved enough to buy a home in Livingston, send me, my brother and sister to wonderful public schools, coach Little League, be President of the PTA, vacation at the Jersey Shore and send me off to college to get the education that they were taught was the key to success in a New Jersey in 1980 that was still fair and affordable and full of faith in the future and trust in our institutions.
They watched me go to college and Seton Hall law school, and become the first person in my family to get an advanced degree. They were there when I married Mary Pat and moved into a studio apartment in Summit full of the same dreams that they had - dreams they taught me to dream in a New Jersey that seems long ago but is still within our grasp.
So today, with one of them still here at my side and one who I am sure is watching from above, joined by Mary Pat and our four children, I stand at this moment of challenge and opportunity, and I declare my candidacy for Governor of the State of New Jersey.
We know that our State is broken and it will not be fixed by waving a magic wand. So let me tell you exactly what kind of Governor I will be. I will govern this State with the same principles we lived by at the U.S. Attorney's office. I will fight for what is just and right for the people of New Jersey.
What we need now in NJ is a complete change of attitude. We can't tolerate business as usual while our state is in crisis. It will take new innovative leadership.
As U.S. Attorney for the past seven years, I learned that making the tough and right choices leads to success. We tackled issues and problems that many said were impossible to solve. They said we could not prevent another domestic terrorist attack, but we did. They said we could not hold corporate criminals responsible for their wrongdoing, but we did. They said we could not punish environmental polluters who foul our Jersey coast, but we did. And they said no one could combat the culture of corruption in our State, but that we certainly did.
I often said that being U.S. Attorney was the best job, because every day all I had to do was walk into work and do the right thing. Political considerations, special interests, and party politics were left at the door. And all we were concerned with was doing right and making sure that justice was done. It was a great job and we delivered results.
Today, our problems are not Republican or Democratic problems, so our solutions must rise above partisan politics as well. I have the experience, I have the determination, and I have the will to make the tough decisions necessary to put our State back on the right track. We will deliver results so that we can restore your faith and trust in the idea that government can really work.
That's what I did as U.S. Attorney, and that's what I'll do as Governor.
We know that we are losing thousands of citizens every year to other states because they simply can no longer afford to live here.
We know we are no longer competitive as we watch business after business lured away by neighboring states. Why do they get it and Trenton doesn't?
Our government taxes too much. Our government borrows too much. Our government spends too much. Worse yet, we have a government that refuses to be accountable for how they spend our money and why they waste it.
Our quality of life is slipping away every day and we have lost faith that our government will do anything to stop it.
The Wall Street philosophy of "spend now, borrow now, and pay later" has ruined our state's finances. After all these years and all the broken promises, we now know for sure there is no wizard with a magic wand to fix it.
I will make you one simple promise. If I am fortunate enough to win this election, I will not spend one minute worrying about a second term. I will make the tough decisions without sticking my finger in the air to see which way the political wind is blowing. We will do the right thing. We will fix our broken state and then, if I am sent home after four years, I will go with a clear conscience, knowing that the goals I pursued were good and right.
It is time for New Jersey to wipe the slate clean. Change will not come easy, but the same players arguing over the same policies will not make the dramatic difference we need to get our state back on track. Over the course of this campaign, I will propose a four year plan to fix our state and bring fairness and opportunity back. This plan contains tough, thoughtful solutions, not the type of quick fix gimmicks that Trenton has become known for.
First, our state spends too much. As Governor, I will use every tool at my disposal, including aggressive use of the line item veto, to get state spending under control. I will change the way we budget, rejecting the Trenton way of giving every program an increase every year without demanding accountability and setting priorities. We will budget like you do in your home. First, we will determine how much money we have in our budget. Then we will determine the most important priorities, and those priorities will get funded. Other less critical programs will have to wait. Ineffective and outdated programs will be eliminated. Never again should a Governor raise our taxes, only to turn right around and give powerful politicians more than $300 million of that tax increase for a wild, middle of the night spending spree. I will bring fiscal discipline to Trenton. This is simple common sense. All we need is someone with the will to stand up and make it happen.
Second, New Jersey's economy is in real crisis. Our unemployment rate is the highest in 15 years. For the first time in a very long time, New Jersey will have fewer private sector jobs at the end of this decade than at the beginning. For every private sector job created in New Jersey in the last 8 years, there have been 15 government jobs created. That is not real economic growth. We must make New Jersey competitive again.
Our four year plan will lower income taxes for everyone and lower business taxes in order to attract new jobs to our state. We will stop the runaway overregulation that forces businesses to flee New Jersey and take their jobs with them. I will be a new kind of CEO for New Jersey - the chief employment officer. I will create a welcoming atmosphere for business in New Jersey and then I will relentlessly market our great state in order to attract good paying jobs for our citizens.
I will put my lieutenant governor in charge of establishing the New Jersey Partnership for Action, a one-stop shop for potential new businesses which will attract them to New Jersey for the first time in 8 years. We will walk potential new businesses through the regulatory process, assist with tax incentives, and make it easier to start a new company here. Other states do it now, and they are adding jobs. N.J. isn't, and we are losing them.
In order to grow our economy and improve our state, I will propose a plan to renew our cities. To truly improve our cities, we must reestablish the pillars of any thriving community - public safety, economic growth, improved public education, and housing that working men and women can afford. I will propose concrete plans to make our cities safer. No one has the kind of experience I have to make that primary goal a reality. We will use our tax code and a new regulatory environment to attract well-paying jobs to our cities. We will demand accountability in public education because it is a moral imperative of a civilized society to ensure that every child receives a good education. Demanding change and accountability in urban education is not only necessary for us to have an educated workforce for NJ's future; it is the morally right thing to do for every urban family in N.J. After all, that is where I started in 1962. Every child in 2009 should have the same dreams and the same chance I had.
This is just the beginning. As the weeks and months roll on, I look forward to sharing more of my ideas on how we will put N.J. back on track. It will not be easy. It will require difficult decisions every day.
In my seven years as the United States Attorney, I never shied away from tough decisions. Whether the criminals were rich or poor, Republicans or Democrats, we were equal opportunity prosecutors. As Governor, I won't shy away from the tough decisions either. Believe me, I know how to hold people accountable.
While others look at New Jersey today and see failure after failure by our government in Trenton, I see a New Jersey of tomorrow that is full of success and opportunity.
While today we pay some of the highest taxes in the country and support a government full of waste, I see a tomorrow where a Governor who demands accountability can lower our taxes and provide us with the services we need. We can, and we will do better.
While today we see a state where gang members roam our streets with illegal handguns, bring violence to neighborhoods and death to our children, I see a tomorrow with a criminal justice system that protects the innocent, punishes the guilty and gives us the chance to renew our cities. We can and we will do better.
While today we see an affordable housing plan that forces unrealistic quotas on our towns, stifles economic growth, raises property taxes, and destroys every last piece of open space in N.J., I see a tomorrow where we end the Trenton power grab by COAH, protect our environment, reinvigorate business, and put forward a housing plan where towns are our partners and not the victims of more Trenton mandates. We can and we will do better.
While today we see a state that ranks 50th in business tax climate and 50th in small business survival, I see a tomorrow where we make the tough common sense decisions to force government to live within its means and have a Governor who will say no to the special interests and no to the politicians who feel so free to waste our money on their personal interests. We can and we will do better.
If New Jersey is not broken, then why in 2007 did New Jersey create just 3,700 new private sector jobs while New York created 84,000? Why does Pennsylvania have a smaller state budget, lower state income taxes, lower property taxes, lower sales taxes and more affordable housing? We can and we will do better.
We know already the kind of campaign our opponents will run against us. They will spend unlimited money. They will try to tag me with the same labels and the same insults they have used over and over again against those who demand that we end politics as usual. They will try to scare you. They will try to scare me. They will try to divide us by making us scared of each other. They will try to convince you that I am not the man you have gotten to know over the last seven years as the U.S. Attorney.
Some would say that the country's financial crisis is what has caused N.J.'s crisis. That is just not so. N.J.'s problems date much further back than that. Strong leadership is not about pointing fingers and blaming others. I will provide our State with leadership that takes responsibility - produces results, not excuses.
I know you are cynical. I know you have been deceived in the past. I will not make you promises I know I cannot keep just to win your vote. You have heard too much of that already. I will be strong enough to say no to the entrenched, partisan interests and open minded enough to listen to new solutions. And I will put aside the divisiveness and bitterness of old style politics to open a new day of trust and faith in our government.
As I have traveled around this State, many people have asked me why I would ever want to be Governor. The answer is easy. This State is our home. I was born here, I was raised here. I am raising my family here, and I intend to stay here. I love NJ.
We have an obligation to our children and grandchildren to make good use of the liberty that was given to us as Americans and New Jerseyans. I am ready to begin the work to solve our problems and optimistic that together, we can change New Jersey. Let the road to a better and more prosperous state begin here and begin today. And let us do it together.
* Chris Christie

Source: http://www.christiefornj.com/newsroom/2009/02/04/announcement-speech/
