Public Statements
Gov. Christie To Recovery Clients: I Want To Make Sure You Know That You Haven't Been Forgotten
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 31, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: This place is a place where miracles happen every day. Lives are restored. People come in here as low as you can possibly be in life. As hopeless as you can possibly be in life, find hope and find redemption and find the tools that they need to be able to make their life better. To be a better influence for their family and for their friends, for everyone around you. That's a miracle. For those people who understand the depths of this disease, the idea that you would be healthy and sober, I'm sure at some point during the depths of your disease you would think would have to have been a miracle for that to happen for you. It's happening here because of the people here at Renaissance but also because of you. Because you have decided that's what you want your life to be. And I said it to the group upstairs and I'll repeat to those who weren't upstairs, I'm here because I want you to make sure - I want to make sure you know that you haven't been forgotten. That there are people in positions of leadership in this State who have not forgotten you. Have not forgotten your plight and the challenge you face every day and want to help. And just as importantly want you to know that we believe your life has value and that you are, each and every one of you who are here now seeking treatment are an individual gift from God and that those things cannot be discounted or given the back of the hand. And I just want you all to know, that that's what we believe as an administration, it's what I believe in my heart personally and I'm going to do everything I can over the course of the next 352 days, as I said to the folks upstairs, not that I'm counting, but over the course of the next 352 days to make sure that we build on everything we've done before and set a national example. And then all of you who succeed and reclaim your lives will be a voice, an added voice to those who are hopeless at that moment. You'll then be able to use your voice to be able to say, you haven't been forgotten, I know where you've been and how down you are, and I made it and so can you. That's all I want from anybody who's here in return for the help that you're getting is when you're in recovery to be able to be a voice for others who are hopeless who can't see that this could possibly happen for them, to be able to look them in the eye and say, I was where you were. And now look where I am now and it can happen for you, too. You just have to get some place where you can get the help and be committed to accepting the help and making it a part of your everyday life. That's what we're going to do and there's nothing more important that I could spend my remaining time as governor doing. And that's what I'm going to do.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170131d.html
