Public Statements
Issue Position: Shared Values
Issue Position
By: Chris Christie
Location: Unknown

Mary Pat and I have been blessed with four beautiful children and like many New Jersey parents, we have worked hard to instill strong values in each of them. Our children attend parochial school where we hope their studies will help guide them in their faith and reinforce the values we teach them at home. Experiences in my life, along with my faith, have led me to believe in the sanctity, dignity and inherent value of all human life.
I am pro-life. Hearing the strong heartbeat of my unborn daughter 14 years ago at 13 weeks gestation had a profound effect on me and my beliefs. The life of every human being is precious. We must work to reduce abortions in New Jersey through laws such as parental notification, a 24-hour waiting period and a ban on partial-birth abortion.
I also believe marriage should be exclusively between one man and one woman. While, I have no issue with same sex couples sharing contractual rights, I believe that marriage should remain the exclusive domain of one man and one woman. If a bill legalizing same sex marriage came to my desk as Governor, I would veto it. If the law were changed by judicial fiat, I would be in favor of a constitutional amendment on the ballot so that voters, not judges, would decide this important social question.
Above all, I am committed to protecting the most vulnerable in our society. As U.S. Attorney, I took an unprecedented stand against child pornography and human trafficking - breaking up criminal rings around the world. These crimes are not only despicable, they erode the moral fiber of our society and cannot be tolerated. As Governor, my vested interest in protecting those that are unable to fight for themselves will continue with a forceful hand.
I am honored to have been endorsed by many key pro-life leaders from around New Jersey including Congressman Chris Smith, former Mayor Bret Schundler, State Senator Gerald Cardinale and State Assemblyman Jay Webber. I am devoted to giving a voice to and taking action for those that are unable to protect themselves.

Source: http://www.christiefornj.com/on-the-issues/shared-values/
