Public Statements
Gov. Christie: State Of Art Terminal Will Provide Improved Amenities For Millions More Passengers Every Year
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 13, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: We're here at Terminal A, as John mentioned, for a significant step forward in all that. We're breaking ground ceremonially and starting work for the construction of three roadway bridges which will connect the central area roadway network to the new Terminal A, which we will be building right next to the existing Terminal A. It will replace this 1970's-era building with a new state-of-the-art facility. It's a project that comes at a time when a study by the Airports Council of North America notes that airports across the US will need $100 billion for infrastructure improvements in the next five years. Newark Airport is an essential part of our national network. This redevelopment project alone is anticipated to create 10,000 jobs and nearly a billion dollars in direct payroll wages while generating $3.9 billion in regional economic activity and that's especially critical to bolstering opportunities for people in our local communities here in New Jersey. We continue to see a surge in air travel demand providing state of the art amenities and customer service is critical to ensuring that people have a survivable time at the airport. No one is ever going to say it will be an enjoyable time to come to the airport but we want people to be able to do the best they can while they're here. This is a $2.4 billion redevelopment project; the new and improved Terminal A will have the capacity to accommodate over 13 million passengers each and every year. Currently, this terminal A, which was opened in 1973, was designed to handle a maximum of 9 million passengers a year. We know that this is one of the busiest airports in the nation and that it is an important part not only for our economy but for the nation's economy.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170613c.html
