Public Statements
Governor Christie Takes Action On Pending Legislation And Issues Executive Order Lifting Moratorium On Transportation Projects
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 14, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie issued the following statement after taking action on pending legislation providing tax relief for New Jersey residents while also updating and authorizing funding for the Transportation Trust Fund Authority ("TTFA"):
"Through this legislation, we are continuing our commitment to providing tax relief for working New Jerseyans of all income levels, senior citizens, military veterans and property owners, while ensuring solid, reliable, state-of-the-art roads, bridges and mass transit systems," said Governor Christie. "Over the next eight years, a record $32 billion in state and federal funds will be invested in infrastructure improvements and modernizations in New Jersey. "This compromise legislation locks in what I called for from the beginning: tax fairness for all residents, leading to a more affordable state and an improved economy."
BILL SIGNINGS:
A-10/S-2412 (Prieto, Vainieri Huttle, McKeon, Schaer, Sumter, Caputo, Mukherji, Singleton, Pintor Marin, Giblin, Rible/Sarlo, Oroho) - Revises "New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund Authority Act"; establishes State Transportation Infrastructure Bank within NJ Environmental Infrastructure Trust; renames NJ Environmental Infrastructure Trust
A-12/S-2411 (Prieto, McKeon, Schaer, Sumter, Caputo, Vainieri Huttle, Giblin, Rible/Sarlo, Oroho) - Adjusts certain State taxes to support strengthened investments in public and private assets in this State
EXECUTIVE ORDER
Executive Order No. 216 (TTFA) - Orders Executive Order No. 210, signed on June 30, 2016, and Executive Order No. 213, signed on August 17, 2016, rescinded. Executive Order No. 210, declared a State of Emergency and ordered the Commissioner of the Department of Transportation ("DOT") and the Executive Director of New Jersey Transit ("NJT") to plan an immediate and orderly shutdown of all nonessential work on the State's transportation infrastructure that was funded by the TTFA. Executive Order No. 213 declared a continuing State of Emergency and ordered that general State funds be transferred to the TTFA in amounts sufficient to permit transportation projects essential for health and safety to continue.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20161014b.html
