Public Statements
Governor Christie Discusses Lower Property Taxes, Improved Education With Ocean County Residents
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 15, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today will visit Bayville (Berkeley Township) to discuss his solution to the two most pressing crises hurting all New Jerseyans: nation-high property taxes and the failure of urban education. A Fairness Formula Town Hall will take place at 3 p.m. at the Bayville Elks Lodge, 247 Atlantic City Boulevard (Route 9), Bayville.
"Results over the past four decades prove New Jersey's school funding approach does not work for students or taxpayers, who have been forced by court decisions to pay tens of billions of dollars in state taxes for failing education in dozens of cities," Governor Christie said. "The Fairness Formula will end the currently unaccountable, wasteful and inequitable system, and provide overdue property tax relief to Berkeley Township residents and their neighbors throughout Ocean County. It will also deliver additional successful, efficient public charter and Renaissance schools for the tens of thousands of urban students and parents currently on waiting lists."
"I look forward to welcoming Governor Christie to Berkeley today so he can share the benefits of the Fairness Formula with our residents," said Berkeley Mayor Carmen F. Amato, Jr. "The Fairness Formula would provide our schools with a 338 percent increase in state aid, which would save the average homeowner almost $700 per year in property taxes. Our students deserve to be treated equally by the state, and our seniors and working families deserve tax relief so they can continue to live, work and retire in our great community."
The Governor's Fairness Formula would give all public school districts $6,599 in state tax dollars for every enrolled student, plus continued aid for special education. The current school funding formula allows failing "Abbott" or School Development Authority (SDA) school districts to spend as much as $33,699 per pupil in tax dollars, while successful school districts spend less than half of that per student. The statewide graduation rate is 90 percent with 27 of the 31 SDA districts falling below that average.
With this new formula, hundreds of New Jersey public school districts would get more state aid than their current levels, enabling those towns to provide hundreds or even thousands in annual property tax savings for residents, who can petition lawmakers to get this done by clicking here: http://nj.gov/governor/taxrelief/pages/join.shtml.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160915c.html
