Public Statements
Gov. Christie On Urban Education: We're Tired Of Paying For Failure, We Need This System To Change
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 15, 2016
Location: Unknown

Transcript:
Governor Christie: Today, we went to court on behalf of you, to the Supreme Court, to say three things: First, that this funding formula has failed for 30 years and that it needs to be overturned. Second, that the real thing that's preventing us from teaching kids in these districts are the ridiculous work rules that are imposed upon us by statute and by collective bargaining agreements with the teachers union that prevents us from doing common sense things like, if there are going to be layoffs in our schools, that we should layoff the least effective teachers, not do layoffs, as we are required to do by state law, based purely upon seniority. If you're there the longest you get to keep your job. If you're there the shortest you lose your job. How does that ensure that children are getting a thorough and efficient system of education? And, how is it that in Camden, one of the worst school districts in the state, the union contract requires only four hours and forty five minutes of instruction for every seven and a half hour day that a teacher puts in. Four hours and forty-five minutes of instruction for every seven and a half hour day a teacher puts in. It's these kinds of work rules and collective bargaining agreements that we are stuck with in this state that prevents these kids from having, in urban districts, that what they really need.
Let's talk about what happens in a lot of these urban districts, what happens is that the family life isn't there often, to support what you need to do to make sure that your kids do well in school. Now sometimes this is because of broken homes but sometimes it's in intact homes and because those families are struggling to make ends meet, sometimes those folks have to work three or four jobs to keep a roof over their heads, And when you have to do that you're not going to be home at 3 o'clock when the kids get home from school. So who's checking when they're going to do their homework? Who's encouraging them to do their reading. Who's sitting down with them to help them do their math? It's not happening.
So what should we do? Should we just give up on those kids and give up on those families who out of no fault of their own, are just working 15, 16 hours a day to keep a roof over their head. In those districts, we should have a longer school day. In those districts we should have a longer school year. If those children are falling behind, let's spend more time with them. That kind of result, we should be willing to pay for. I've had enough of sitting back and waiting. I've tried negotiating with the legislature. I've tried negotiating with the teacher's union. I've tried every other course, today my patience has run out.
For the first time, it's your governor going to the court and saying enough is enough, on behalf of the people of this state we're tired of paying for failure we need this system to change, we filed that today and we're going to fight for you in the Supreme Court rather than have the educational interest being the ones who are always fighting there with her handouts saying they need more of your money. And the fact is no one knows how it is going to go but I'm not going to sit back and be a bystander in this. I want urban education to get better in this state. I want those families to have an opportunity for their children to achieve their fullest potential. I also want your families to be able to continue to live here.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160915g.html
