Public Statements
Governor Christie On MVC: We're Trying To Make The Experience Better And Reduce Transaction Times
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 24, 2016
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Governor Christie: We fully recognize that our commitment to provide the best customer service possible to the public must be steadfast, but, it has been unacceptable to me to see customers waiting in hours-long lines at MVC offices and I've made that clear to Ray and to his senior staff. So today, we're announcing several initiatives and enhancements to improve the customer experience and reduce the transaction times across the state at MVC headquarters. We're amending the driver's licenses and registrations expiration dates. Currently all driver's licenses and registrations expire on the last day of the month. And you'll remember that I had said to all of you at a previous event that you know, people could help to avoid some of the lines if they didn't wait until the end of the month. Well, I brought that same philosophy to us, as well. We shouldn't have to wait until the end of the month to have everything expire at the same time. So, in an effort to level the load of in-agency transactions and reduce the lines that happen at the end of every month, we are calling on the legislature to enact bills that would change the expiration dates to the drivers' date of birth. That way we would have variability across the entire month for expiration dates and I hope that the legislature will take that action quickly to be able to help us do that. Second we are going to remove the online transaction fee. To further encourage people to utilize the MVC online tools and to have them not make that decision based upon cost, we are going to remove the online transaction fee that is currently applied, effective October 1st. And so, there will be no online transaction fee for anyone who wants to utilize that service. Third, we are going to utilize AAA for registration removals. We've been working with AAA to develop a memorandum of understanding and develop a system for customers to be able to renew their registration through certain AAA offices across the state, that will help us to lessen the lines and the volume here at the MVC offices and give people another easily accessible, in their hometown, opportunity to renew their registration. MVC has also started converting to a central issuance process for ID's rather than through individual agencies, so this will reduce transaction times and ensure maximum security for the ID's that we issue. Our online product will be enhanced as well, working with the Office of Information Technology, MVC regularly updates agency wait times and identifies low volume agencies on their website. The online driver test and suspension/restoration appointment scheduling will also available through MVC's online services, so you don't have to come to a MVC agency to be able to do that. In early 2017, MVC is going to launch two mobile agency units, which will effectively become the 40th and 41st MVC agencies in the state. The mobile units will be able to perform all transactions that the agencies like the one you see behind me can do. They will be deployed in the event of unforeseen agency outages and will also be utilized to service the needs of varying populations that are less mobile, but want the opportunity to avail themselves of MVC services. The only thing that will not be available at these mobile units, obviously, will be driver tests, which will continue to be conducted at the 39 agencies that are currently in play. We're going to additionally enhance the Digital Driver's License Cameras. MVC has increased the number of those cameras in ten of its busiest agencies. These additional cameras have been installed in Bakers Basin, in Springfield, in East Orange, Turnersville, Somerville, South Plainfield, Edison, Rahway, North Bergen, and Wallington, this will help to speed things up as well. And also to reduce the time of license renewal transactions, many agencies will implement a driver's license express process, which allows customers to bypass the ID check stations and just get in line at the Enhanced Digital Driver License lines and just get through that way without having to go through the entire process. All these things are about trying to make the experience better. My experience has always been you never want to go to MVC. It's like not something you look forward to on your calendar and plan during the week. Listen, this month I get to go to MVC, I can't wait, maybe I'll bring the kids. You know that is generally not the way it is. It is usually when you look at your license and realize or get the notification in the mail and realize oh damn, it's been 4 years already, I got to go renew my license or you buy a new car or a used car and you got to go and get the plates and the registration, all the rest of it. Nobody looks at it as something that they build their week or month around. So given that and given the attitude of most people who feel like they have to go here because it is one of the things that they are required to do. We want to try to make this as easy as possible for folks and that is an ongoing process. As technology gets better we continue to do that and frankly as our experiences with the problems that people point out to us, our customers, we continue to adjust the mobile units as one of those things as well to be able to send it where the need is greatest.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160824d.html
