Public Statements
Governor Christie: Unequivocal, Unashamed, Unapologetic Support Of Israel Is The Policy Of NJ
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 16, 2016
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Governor Christie: I am further cementing New Jersey's strong and our historic ties to the state of Israel and its people, as I happily sign Senate Bill 1923, which prohibits investment by the state of New Jersey of pension annuity funds in companies that boycott Israel's products, goods, or Israeli businesses. This legislation officially distances New Jersey from the "Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions" movement that attempts to weaken and overtake Israel by creating economic calamity. Designed as a campaign against Israel's control of the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and the Golan Heights, the boycott is not only contrary to federal policy, and in my view national interests, but it contracts the long history of friendship between New Jersey and Israel. That friendship is not based only on economic and political ties but also longstanding cultural, intellectual, and religious connections. Israel is the beacon of democracy in a region that is constantly in conflict and turmoil. Israel is not just our friend and ally. They are our partners in peace across the world. To let folks in Israel understand that there still are people in the United States, and people of both parties in this state who understand that unequivocal, unashamed, unapologetic support of Israel is the policy of the state of New Jersey and should be the policy of the United States of America and hopefully will be in the years going forward, and so I want to thank the sponsors for their leadership on this from both sides of the aisle. It's extraordinarily important that this be seen and actually be a bipartisan effort in New Jersey, and I'm proud that it is. Happy to add my voice and my signature to this law. I want to thank also the members of the public here who have been regular, regular supporters of policies that encourage democracy, encourage the respect for human rights, and encourage the idea that through American and Israeli leadership together the world can be a safer place in every respect, not just a lack of violence but safe for people to be able to pursue happiness in their life in the way that they see fit.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160816b.html
