Public Statements
Governor Christie, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, State and Local Officials Mark Completion of Bound Brook Phase of Green Brook Flood Risk Management Project
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 15, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today marked a milestone in the Administration's efforts to make the state more storm-resilient by dedicating the completion of the Bound Brook phase of the Green Brook Flood Risk Management Project. A $143 million system of levees, floodwalls, floodgates and pumping stations will help protect Bound Brook, long one of the most flood-prone communities in the state, as well as a densely populated portion of north-central New Jersey. Governor Christie was joined by Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) Commissioner Bob Martin, Brigadier General William H. Graham, Colonel David Caldwell, Commander of the Army Corps' New York District, and Bound Brook Mayor Robert Fazen.
"Far too many residents have had their homes and businesses destroyed by floods, and as I've been there to hug and console a lot of people who have lost so much, today marks my commitment to keep them safe with stronger and modernized infrastructure, " Governor Christie said. "My administration is so strongly focused on completing projects like this to protect people, communities and property in all parts of the state from the traumatic and life-changing impacts of severe flooding. This particular project is part of a larger effort to protect not just Bound Brook but a total of 13 municipalities and tens of thousands of families in Middlesex, Somerset, and Union counties."
Located along the Raritan River and its confluence with the Middle Brook and smaller streams, the borough of Bound Brook has been frequently hit by floods, several of which have been devastating. The new flood-control measures will help protect the community from the kind of destruction it experienced in September 1999, when Tropical Storm Floyd's floodwaters ripped apart buildings, sparked fires that burned for days, forced extensive evacuations and hundreds of water rescues, and caused at least two deaths in the borough.
"Tropical Storm Floyd was to Bound Brook and many neighboring towns what Superstorm Sandy was to our coastal communities -- a natural disaster that shattered lives and destroyed livelihoods," said DEP Commissioner Bob Martin. "It is gratifying that residents in Bound Brook now have peace of mind that their families, homes, schools and businesses are protected."

Source:
