Public Statements
Governor Christie: Flood Risk Management Projects Bring Peace Of Mind
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 15, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Christie: The Green Brook flood control project, which began nearly 17 years ago in 1999, reflects our state's firm and continuous commitment. I want to thank Commissioner Martin, his team at the DEP, and their partners at the Army Corps for all of their incredible hard work. Through their efforts, this series of levees, floodwalls, pump stations, floodgates, and infrastructure improvements will protect more than 500 structures and important public infrastructure here in Bound Brook. I also want to point out the benefits of this project will be felt far beyond Bound Brook. This project is of course part of a larger effort to protect a total of thirteen municipalities in Middlesex, Somerset, and Union counties. When the entire project is completed in about eight years 65 square miles of low-lying land will be protected from flooding. Green Brook has become a model for similar projects not only here in New Jersey but around the country. Already engineers, construction companies, and other public officials have come to inspect the project to see how the methods developed could be used in their communities or in their state. The flood control projects we currently are working on in Union Beach and Port Monmouth have already benefitted from the innovative methods developed and employed here in Bound Brook for flood control. The tens of thousands of people who live in these communities will be protected from devastating floods from the Raritan River and its many tributaries, including Middle Brook, Stony Brook, Green Brook, Bound Brook, Ambrose Brook, and Blue Brook, all of which at times have caused flooding damage and loss to the people of this community. This will not only give them a safer and more secure community. It also will give them peace of mind when it rains. One of the things that you don't learn until you go through this is that it's not just what happens when a storm comes that creates disaster. It's the mindset that it creates for people afterwards. They're all concerned the next time it rains, the next time they hear about any kind of report of flooding that the same awful things are going to happen again. Living without peace of mind in your home, in your schools, in your community, and in your state is no way to live, and so these projects will help to restore that peace of mind to people, that they'll know that if another storm comes that we're much more resilient and much better protected than we were before.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160815b.html
