Public Statements
Governor Christie On Education Funding: State Aid Should Be Given Out Equally
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 5, 2016
Location: Unknown

Transcript:
Governor Christie: Right now we send about $9.1 billion in direct student aid to the districts across the state. What I'm saying is we now have to divide that up equally. No child anyplace in the state is worth more or less than another, and state aid as opposed to the aid you decide to provide through your property taxes should be given out equally across the state, in my view. That would mean that every student in the state would get $6,599 per pupil, per year, up from your $2,400 that you get now. What would that mean for Upper Saddle River?
You'd receive a total of $11.8 million in state aid. That would be an 824% increase over what you get now, and what would that mean in terms of your property taxes? On the average tax bill in Upper Saddle River would go from $17,100 to $13,500. It's an enormous difference, and it's the average tax bill. So, we've had a lot of criticism about this because we say, the Democrats predominantly will say, well, you're slashing urban aid and you're going to destroy urban school districts.
Well, I'm sending $29,000 per pupil, per year to Asbury Park right now for a 66% graduation rate, and if you look at Brookdale Community College, the county college in Monmouth County, they will tell you that of the kids who come to Brookdale from Asbury Park High School, so this is the 66% who actually graduate, that 95% of them need at least one year of remedial training before they can sit in a college classroom.
That's a sin on two bases at least, right? The first one is that we're sending $29,000 a year there, and they're only graduating 66% and then 95% of the kids who try to go to community college aren't ready, so their high school diploma is a fraud. Second reason it's a sin is on those families, because when they go to Brookdale they got to pay, so they're now paying for the education that we paid a king's ransom for and they were supposed to get for free. Now they have to pay per credit for remedial training for an education they were supposed to get in high school and that by the way we gave them a diploma that says they did get it in high school. So my point to the liberals is this: if this system of money equals educational outcome is effective, then why isn't it working?

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160805b.html
