Public Statements
Governor Christie: PARCC Is Undoubtedly An Effective Assessment Tool
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 2, 2016
Location: Unknown

Transcript:
Governor Christie: Today I'm pleased to be joined by our education commissioner David Hespe in delivering some really good news with regard to this year's Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers, better known as the PARCC assessments. As you know, these tests measure a student's knowledge and skills by utilizing critical thinking, analytical writing, and problem solving.
PARCC is designed to provide teachers and school administrators with usable information that can help improve classroom instruction. This is the second year that the PARCC assessment has been administered in New Jersey and with this second year of testing we can now begin to see more accurate trends and results, so I'm pleased to report that the preliminary results for the 2015-16 school year show positive gains in math and English language arts, so what's that mean exactly? It means that a higher percentage of students met or exceeded expectations, indicating they're on pace to become college and career ready in nearly all subjects at nearly all grade levels. In addition to improved student results more students participated in the PARCC tests than last year, further demonstrating parental confidence in the value of the assessment.
More than 65,000 additional students took the math test this year and more than 56,000 additional students took the English language arts exam, and in fact, numerous educators and researchers have reviewed PARCC and have concluded that it is undoubtedly an effective assessment tool. I'm most proud of the fact that you saw the participation rates go up as much as they did. There was a lot of hysteria as you all remember last year, people calling upon me to cancel the PARCC tests, not administer them anymore, and what I said was that, you know, we have to have patience about this and leadership is about, you know, in some respects taking the heat that you need to take when something's not popular to give it the amount of time to be shown to be the kind of effective tool that Commissioner Hespe convinced me along with his staff that this would be, and it's an appropriate time for me before I take questions not only to thank the commissioner for how hard he's worked on this but I know that the members of the Department of Education who have taken a lot of heat about PARCC stood up.
They did their homework. They gave me the best information I could give to transmit to the public, but most importantly they worked with the educational community, teachers and principals and parents in this state to give them confidence in PARCC and the increased numbers, over 65,000 on math and over 56,000 on English, that took it with flat enrollment means those are people who hadn't taken it before and are taking it now, that's really good news for people's confidence in the tests and I think an affirmation of our willingness to hang in there during some of the more difficult times when people obviously get a little bit afraid of change and we have to be steadfast in making sure that we hang in there during those times and give people all the information that they need, so I want to thank all the folks from DOE for their really hard work on that and giving me the information I needed to be able to convey it to the public.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160802b.html
