Public Statements
Governor Christie's Property Tax Relief Plan to Benefit Bergen County Residents
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: July 28, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today will visit Fair Lawn to discuss his solution to New Jersey's two most pressing crises that are hurting all New Jerseyans: sky-high property taxes and the failure of urban education. A Fairness Formula Forum will take place 11 a.m. at the Fair Lawn Senior Center, 11-05 Gardeiner Road.
"We know with four decades of results that the current school funding system does not work for students or taxpayers, as it continues to siphon large amounts of state tax dollars into failing school districts," Governor Christie said. "My Fairness Formula will deliver overdue property tax relief to Fair Lawn Borough residents, who have funded their successful public schools but have been forcibly taxed by the Supreme Court to also pay for inadequate education in dozens of cities. The average property owner in Fair Lawn, already saddled with a high cost of living in Bergen County, would save $2,223 on his or her annual property tax bill. Their friends in neighboring towns will save big as well."
"I am excited to welcome Governor Christie to Fair Lawn and our residents are greatly looking forward to hearing more about his school funding plan that will result in over $2000 in property tax savings per household when enacted," said Fair Lawn Mayor John Cosgrove.
The Governor's Fairness Formula would give all public school districts $6,599 in state tax dollars for every enrolled student, plus continued aid for special education. The current school funding formula allows failing "Abbott" or "SDA" school districts to spend as much as $33,699 per pupil in tax dollars, while successful school districts spend less than half of that per student. The statewide graduation rate is 90 percent with 27 of the 31 Abbott districts falling below that average.
With this new formula, 75 percent of all New Jersey districts would get more state aid than their current levels, enabling those towns to provide hundreds or even thousands in annual property tax savings for residents.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160728a.html
