Public Statements
Governor Christie: I Love Public School Teachers, Not Their Unions
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: July 28, 2016
Location: Unknown

I love public school teachers. I was educated in public schools in New Jersey. I graduated from a public school in New Jersey. But let me tell you something, there is no way that in any profession other than that one in the world you get a job for life after three years, because you get tenure after three years, you get a job for life, and then after 20 years you get pension and health benefits for life. I would love to see a show of hands of all the people in this room who after three years had their boss come and tell them, you have got a job for the rest of your life no matter how you perform, and by the way if you hang in there for 20, we are going to give you a pension for the rest of your life and healthcare for the rest of your life. Who's got that in this room? Raise them up. Nobody? Here's the news everybody, of the 13 billion that we are spending three and a quarter billion, three and a quarter billion, goes to just pay for the pensions and the health benefits retired teachers, not the ones who are teaching your kids right now. That's just for the retired ones, just for the retired ones. So $9 billion goes into direct state aid, of the $9 billion dollars $5.1 billion goes to those 31 districts and $4 billon goes to the other 546 districts. That's this year. That means 58 percent of the aid in the state goes to 5 percent of the school districts. I'm going to stop giving you all of these numbers, because your heads are going to be spinning, but think about that, 58 percent of the aid goes to 5 percent of the districts, 42 percent of the aid goes to 95 percent, and that's the system that your Senator, from this town, in this district, is laying his body on the ground to defend. He wants to defend a system -- Bob Gordon wants to defend a system -- that has 58 percent of the aid going to 5 percent of the school districts. And here is a clue, none of those 5 percent are in his legislative district. Why? Because he is an absolute slave to the teachers union.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160728c.html
