Public Statements
Gov. Christie On TTF Package: Everybody Is Getting Something, That Is What Compromise Looks Like
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 29, 2016
Location: Unknown

Republicans and democrats should not make this a partisan issue. Everybody's compromising here. The fact is that Republicans don't like tax increases and there's still many Republicans who don't think we should increase the gas tax at all. There are Democrats who don't like any tax cuts. That's why this package works. It works because it goes to average New Jerseyans. It works because it helps to constitutionally dedicate funding. It helps because it will improve our roads, our bridges, and our mass transit system. And that's not a partisan issue. Republicans and Democrats should both be able to come together, because everybody is getting something out of this, and that's what compromise looks like. The last package had some problems as far as I was concerned and wasn't the best thing. It's not that I don't favor an estate tax elimination, you all know that I do. But governing is about choosing. It's about choosing. And you have to choose. You can't have everything, so you got to choose. I wanted tax relief to go to average New Jerseyans, because it was average New Jerseyans who were going to be paying a gas tax increase. I wanted to make sure that they came out of this better, not worse, better in terms of the conditions of the roads, and bridges, and mass transit, better in terms of the money that is in their pocket. And that is what this program does. And so, we're ready to go. We're ready to have the discussion. And I'm ready to rest my voice so that I have one for tomorrow. But thank you all for coming today and we look forward to seeing you I'm sure again tomorrow, when I hope we will have some good new to announce for the people of New Jersey, that once again their governor has brought both sides of an argument together to resolve an issue that people thought couldn't be resolved and will be resolved, because we know how to bring people together to make them compromise and at the same time stand up for principles like tax reduction that we very much believe in. Thank you.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160629c.html
