Public Statements
Gov. Christie: The Assembly Got Their Work Done, It's Time For The Senate To Get Their Work Done
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 29, 2016
Location: Unknown

For months now they've been saying this crisis is occurring on June 30th. The crisis is occurring on June 30th. The governor must act by June 30th. Now, I've acted and gotten have of the legislature to do it, and because they don't like it and feel momentum going towards this plan, now they're saying delay. No delay. The transportation trust fund expires on July 1st. Now, if they don't do anything, then all the steps I have to take to keep transportation projects going and the cost associated will be on them. And it's irresponsible. They have all the information they need to make a decision. Time to step up and make a judgement. I stepped into it. They complained for months that I wasn't saying or doing anything. Well, now I have. Now they don't like what I've done. This is like when I'm not in the state they don't like it, when I'm in the state they don't like it. That's too bad. Unless it's their idea they don't like it, but we need to get this done. There's no reason we can't get it done tomorrow. The Assembly got their work done. It's time for the Senate to get their work done. And the fact is I want them to answer to the people whose jobs are dependent upon that transportation funding. What are they going to say to them? The fact is that these men and women have been promised by the Democratic Party for years, they have been lied to the Democratic Party for years saying that I was the impediment to a transportation trust fund deal. Well no one can say anymore that I'm the impediment to a transportation trust fund deal. I have committed to signing the bill the Assembly passed. If they put it on my desk tomorrow, I will sign it tomorrow and a transportation trust fund deal will be done for 8 years, by the way which will be the longest time that any governor has committed to the fund in the history of the fund. So, not a 5 year plan any more but an 8 year plan. The fact is I've done that and they haven't. Now, if they don't step up tomorrow, Michael, all of a sudden now they're going to be the ones who are saying that we can wait. I was given a deadline. I told all of you that I would meet the deadline. I've met the deadline. I'm sitting here with my pen and I'm waiting for them to do their job, and the fact is I was never inconsistent about what I've said about this. I said I would always consider signing a gas tax increase if the entire package represented tax fairness. I've been saying that for two years. And so now we've gotten down, as always happens here, with the last minute crammers for the exam, that we're down to the last 48 hours. Well, it's time for them to do their work because guess what? The test is coming tomorrow night. It's either done or it's not, and they have to make some decisions, and I don't, myself quite frankly, I don't have any problem with meeting the deadline. I've met it, and I've brought people together, Republicans and Democrats together behind my proposal. And by the way, if they had had the votes for their proposal they would have done it. They didn't. I came in with a proposal that got Republicans and Democrats supporting it in the General Assembly and got it passed. It's now time for Republicans and Democrats to come together in the Senate and get this bill passed. We've gone through this problem lately on other issues, right? Where one house acts and the other one delays. The governor's the guy who has to try to bring them together, I'm doing my best to bring them together. I'm proud that the Speaker has stood up and stood with me on this. He deserves great credit for not dilly dallying, for not doing excuse making. And you know I've had plenty of critical things to say in the past about the Speaker and he's had plenty of critical things to say about me, but this once again puts a lie to the notion that some of you all write about, which is we argue like that or say those things and we can't work together. The Speaker and I worked just fine together. We made a proposal together. We worked the Assembly together, and we got it done together. Now, it's time for the Senate President to do the same thing. And I've seen Steve do it before and I'm confident that Steve can do it again. So we need to get it done by tomorrow.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160629d.html
