Public Statements
Governor Christie: The Replenished TTF Is Making Commuters' Lives Easier, Better, And Safer
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 8, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: Resurfacing bridge repair and safety improvements like the one we see to my right, your left, is a $4.5-million resurfacing project on Route 130, here in South Brunswick, and we know that this is making commuters' lives easier and better, safer, and it's why we pushed so hard to get the Transportation Trust Fund done and done in a responsible way. About 35,000 vehicles travel this section of the roadway every day, and making sure that it's paved and paved in a safe way is important for people to get to and from work or whatever appointments they have that day, to do it in a way that is safe for them personally and good for their vehicles. The fact is, this is why we worked so hard to get the TTF replenished and replenished for eight years. The next administration, whoever it is, will not have to worry about the TTF. They'll have, along with the legislature, $2 billion a year in state money and a matching $2 billion a year, at least, in federal money to be able to work on infrastructure in New Jersey. And it's not just roadways and bridges but of course money that can be utilized for our mass transit system, as well, and capital improvements to New Jersey Transit. So it's important and I think really important to know that one of the only supplemental spending bills I've ever approved in my eight years as governor, was this supplemental spending bill of $400 million. That was to utilize the good weather as it began, to be able to get this work going. I want to thank the folks behind me. They're all working incredibly hard to get this work done. DOT has done a great job at that. Projects like this and all the other going on around the state help put people to work. They put folks who are working in our construction trades to work to improve the infrastructure. That improves the economy of the state as well and more importantly, it improves the economy of each and every family that is a beneficiary of that job.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170608c.html
