Public Statements
Video & Transcript: Governor Christie On Education Funding: Fair Is Fair
Interview
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 23, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: We shouldn't be afraid to let the people who are paying for the education decide how the education should be paid for. And I am not afraid of that.
Paul Carlisle: If I may just ask this one question, are you aware of any other states that do the equal share of funding?
Governor Christie: Oh yeah, more states do that than don't and our Supreme Court took this in a whole different direction and when they did 30 years ago, it was a radical idea back then that a court would decide. When the courts, back in the, it started really back 40 years ago in the mid-1970s when the court said that we're closing all the public schools unless the state puts an income tax into effect. That's a pretty aggressive thing for a court to do, they did that and that's what started this in motion and then the next set of decisions was about what the amount of funding should be. So part of it is political failure right, of the leaders back then they didn't make these tough decisions so the court said well if you're not going to do anything we're going to force you to do something. But now we've done all this stuff and we've seen the failure. So now we're like why do we banging our heads against the wall doing the same things we've done before? And we here all the time about people with ideas about how to lower property taxes. Well there's only two ways, right? It's either spending less or subsidizing more, it's one or the other because it's just a math equation. You know, no one's got a magic wand, right? When you sit and do your budget, you either have to get more money from someplace else or spend less. And to me, the beauty of this is we're not saying let's cut school funding. We say let's keep it exactly where it is right now, just let's distribute it differently. You know it just doesn't make sense to me to continue to ask all of you to bear 57% in your property taxes, the burden of supporting schools while these other 31 districts are at 26% or less. You know fair is fair. And so it's not only about how much the aid does but what's the aid then do.
Governor Christie: Aiden how you doing man? You've been hanging in there during all this, is it all right? What are you doing over the summer?
Aiden Carlisle: Summer baseball and summer soccer.
Governor Christie: Great. Have fun this summer. You've earned it. You worked hard in school, earn your summer. It's good. Enjoy it.
Mayor Anesh: That's part of the deal, right?
Paul Carlisle: That's the deal. What's the deal? Tell him what the deal is.
Aiden Carlisle: School first and then sports.
Governor Christie: Excellent. Well I'll tell you, you can do it all the way through. My oldest son just graduated from college and he was baseball player in college, he played for Princeton and they just won the IVY League championship and went to the NCAA tournament. But he got his good grades and he graduated on time. So, you can play sports and do school but I had the same deal with him. School first, sports second. Grades aren't good you can say adios to the coach. And it worked. He went all the way to college, he played baseball in college and it was a great time for him and it made his college even better. He made lots of great friends and had lots of great experiences. So sports is great and if you do that while getting good grades you'll do really well. So good for you. Keep it up buddy. That's really great. Thanks for letting me come to your house.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160623d.html
