Public Statements
Governor Christie: We See Great Potential In The Burgeoning Expansion Of New Technology
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 20, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: I'm pleased to announce the appointment of David Weinstein as the new Chief Technology Officer for the State of New Jersey. Serving as a member of my cabinet, Dave will be responsible for developing and implementing strategic policies, as well as information security standards and requirements. And I know that his commitment of wanting to make the state a place where folks can conduct their business in a way that's more efficient and effective for them and for our employees, but also in a way that is safer and more secure, is significant. And so, his willingness to forgo those other opportunities and to bring this now, this position to a cabinet level, with this level of seriousness that it's going to need, I've told him that I'll match his commitment with the resources that he needs to be able to do the job in the right way. All of us see both the great potential in the burgeoning expansion of technology, but we also perils that are involved as well. And those perils are real to the people of our state just as real as the opportunities are. So we need to have someone who understands that, and I'm confident that in Dave, we have that person.
David Weinstein: Thank you Governor, for your leadership on this topic and for your support and confidence in me as well as the support and confidence of your staff and your entire administration. I'm privileged to continue my service in this capacity as our state's CTO. I also want to thank my family who's here today, and of course Dr. Chris Rodriguez, the Director of the Office of Homeland Security for his leadership over the past two years. Technology is both a great risk to the state but it is also presents great opportunities. And we'll continue the work we've done over the past two years to mitigate the risk, but we'll also take very aggressive steps for the remainder of this administration to capitalize on the opportunity that technology presents the departments and agencies of this government. I share the Governor's vision that innovation is not outside of the reach of government, and that we can and should embrace technological change at a pace commensurate with the private sector. So I look forward to getting to work. Again, I thank the Governor for his leadership and support on this important topic, and I look forward to getting to work. Thanks.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160620b.html
