Public Statements
Governor Christie On Asbury Park: We Have Much To Celebrate Here
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 10, 2016
Location: Asbury, NJ

It's always great for me to come back to Asbury Park. It's not the summer yet for me if I haven't gotten to Asbury Park and so I'm glad that I got to do it early in the summer season and yes I am intending on walking along the boardwalk and seeing some of the continued development and the businesses and the folks who are, you know, once again seeing the Asbury Park boardwalk as one of the truly iconic places in the state of New Jersey and something that's essential stop if you want to experience the Jersey Shore experience in the summer. Everything here, from the history of music at the Stone Pony to Madame Marie's to the Silver Ball Museum, all of those places are places that are really important to New Jersey's history, to New Jersey's culture, and to what we've come to mean not only to this region but to the country and to the world, Asbury Park, and being the mayor of Asbury Park and being able to say Greetings from Asbury Park. You bet John I'm definitely guilty of using that line myself many times but you're the one as the mayor who owns that one. It's come a long way, Asbury Park, from the times when I was a young, young person when my parents used to bring me here for vacation in the summer, myself and my younger brother, to the times when things were truly bad here, and the song My City of Ruins could apply to this place and was the inspiration for Bruce writing that song. Now we have much, much, much to celebrate here. When you look at what has happened, the repurposing of this into a really beautiful 110 room boutique hotel, it's pretty amazing. Now we have much, much, much to celebrate here. When you look at what has happened, the repurposing of this into a really beautiful 110 room boutique hotel, it's pretty amazing what not only private sector investment and public sector partnership can do but more importantly, what the imagination and the ingenuity of people who understand what this city is all about and what it's potential is for the future can really develop. I encourage all of you, if haven't, to take a look around here and then encourage your friends and your family to come here, it's really important, important work. I want to thank iStar too, for investing in the community here and Asbury Park through job and employment training programs and community building activities with local vendors and their support of the Boys and Girls Club of Monmouth County, all really important things to have private sector partners willing to invest in. Everyone needs to come down to the Jersey Shore. It's a great place to come not only because of the great, and Asbury Park probably has if not the best, one of the best beaches in the entire state of New Jersey for people to enjoy but here the culture that The Asbury Hotel represents is what makes Asbury Park different than a lot of other places up and down the Jersey Shore. You can find great restaurants here, great music here, all within walking distance of the boardwalk. And so if you come and you spend a week or a weekend at The Asbury Hotel, you're going to be able to experience great food, a great beach, and great entertainment. And that's a really, really welcome change from where we were even when I first became Governor, seven years ago.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160610d.html
