Public Statements
Governor Christie On Charter Schools: Parents Are Voting With Their Feet
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

I was just thrilled to come here and meet with parents because this is what this battle is coming down to. You know I gave a speech as was mentioned earlier, at the charter school conference last week and within an hour or less the teacher's union put out a statement saying that this is just another example of Governor Christie's investment of the failed charter school movement. Well I'd ask Wendell Steinhauer to get out of the palace on State Street, get out of his luxury car and come and talk to parents, urban parents, and let them talk about their experience in a traditional public school versus their experience in these charter schools. And maybe his conscience would be shaken. Maybe he would stop with the inflammatory crazy stuff that they put out because the results speak for themselves. With less funding, with lesser facilities, they're producing better results across the state and a thousand people on the waiting list. A thousand families on the waiting list in Trenton. It's obscene and it needs to change. And I'm not going to stop. I've been fighting this since I started to run for governor in 2009 and I'm not going to stop until I leave office. And I'm sure once I leave, whatever I do in the private sector I'm going to find a way to be supportive of this movement as well because it's a mission for me. I could have been one of those kids in an urban school setting, in a failed urban school setting, if my parents had not been able to borrow money from their two mothers in 1967 to move us out of Newark into Livingston, where I went to an outstanding public school and got a great education that allowed me to achieve much of what I've been able to achieve in my life. Their children are no less worthy than I am, and no less worthy than my children are to be able to achieve and accomplish their full potential as well. The staff here, the administrators, the teachers, deserve great credit for what they're accomplishing. And they've been in business for 17 years because parents are voting to come here. They're not forced here. They come here because they choose to be here. Much different than what we have in a lot of the other settings in urban areas in this state. So these folks deserve better in Trenton and we're going to continue to try to give them better options, better choices. One mother said upstairs during the meeting I had, why shouldn't I be able to choose for my kids. We should ask the members of the state legislature that. Why shouldn't be able to choose for her kids? These are antiquated arguments and this is a dying movement because parents are voting with their feet to abandon it and I'm going to continue to support them in doing that. So I want to thank everybody here at Village for letting me come by and talk to parents and we're going to continue to let those voices be heard. And I've told them it's up to them too. They have to have their voices be heard because if they don't, then the forces of money and power in this state will crush this movement. And we can't allow that to happen. So I'm glad to be here, glad to continue to be on this team and continuing to help work together to provide options, choices, opportunities for urban parents and their children.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160601b.html
