Public Statements
Governor Christie On Charter Schools: The Facts Are On Our Side
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

People are asking me all the time now about legacy. This is one of the hot topics now. What I think my legacy is, what I want my legacy to be, what I think others will think my legacy is. This is one of those areas where I will not stop building legacy until the minute I leave. That is why I asked the for the meeting with you last fall, and why I am here today to tell you about the results of that meeting. By the way, all of these ideas came from you, all of them came from you. All of them came from that meeting and the subsequent meetings since then about the things that we could do from a regulatory perspective, without any involvement from the legislature, to make you missions more achievable. To make you lives a little bit easier. But most importantly, to make the education that you are providing to the children in your care more effective, more efficient, more meaningful for them and for their families. Now I need you to do exactly the same thing that I've done by listening to you. You need now to listen to me. We need to expand your profile in this state over the course of the next nineteen months. We need to open more charter schools. We need to expand more charter schools. You need to take risk with me. Sixty-five hundred families in Newark, two thousand in Camden and countless thousands of others across the state waiting or an opportunity for their children to reach their dreams is unacceptable. You see, what the opponents of this movement are counting on is that we won't serve that population. They are counting on the fact that we will be cowed by the political muscle job that is done in the state capitol by the teacher's union against this movement. We will not be deterred. The fact is, that the facts are on our side and you look at example over example over example across this state- not only are the statistics on our side, and they are, and they will try to demean them and distinguish them, but it is ineffective. But let's put that aside for a second because statistics can always played with and as a result become suspect. Why are those sixty-five hundred families on a waiting list? Somehow, have they all been hoodwinked? Have they all been fooled by your massive PR campaign? No they see the smiles on those children faces. They see the smiles on the faces of those parents who see those children learning and they want the same thing.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160526c.html
