Public Statements
Lt. Governor Guadagno To Lead Red Tape Review Commission Public Meeting
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 24, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Lt. Governor Kim Guadagno will convene the next meeting of the Red Tape Review Commission at 11 a.m. tomorrow, May 25th, in the Mt. Laurel Room at Rowan College at Burlington County, located in Mt. Laurel.
The Red Tape Review Commission regularly meets to hear public testimony on a variety of regulatory and statutory issues including professional licensing, general permitting practices and other bureaucratic pitfalls affecting New Jersey businesses and residents.
"I encourage members of the business community to attend Red Tape Review Commission meetings to share their insight into how we can make New Jersey more attractive to businesses," Lt. Governor Guadagno said. "By removing burdensome regulations and mandates placed on businesses, we can strengthen our state's economy and create jobs."
During tomorrow's meeting, Lt. Governor Guadagno will recognize representatives from the National Association for Information Destruction (NAID). The NAID advocated for bipartisan legislation that allows mobile electronic waste destruction units to operate without a permit from the Department of Environment Protection.
"The National Association for Information Destruction applauds the actions of the Red Tape Review Commission and New Jersey lawmakers in providing New Jersey residents and businesses with additional choices when deciding what hard drive destruction solution is best for them," Bob Johnson, Executive Director of NAID, said. "As a result, they now have more than 20 mobile data destruction service providers to choose from, where prior to the legislation they only had two. This truly is an example of increasing market competition and choice by eliminating red tape which ultimately helps the consumer."
All four legislators serving on the Red Tape Review Commission at the time the measure was signed into law were sponsors of the legislation.
In addition to the Lt. Governor, the Red Tape Review Commission's members include Senator Steven Oroho, Senator Robert Gordon, Assemblyman John Burzichelli, Assemblyman Scott Rumana, Somerset County Freeholder Brian D. Levine, IBEW Local 201 President Bernie Corrigan, Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey President John Galandak and Economic Project Solutions, Inc. President and CEO Kimberly Gillespie.
To learn more about the RTRC's work, visit http://www.state.nj.us/state/dos_red_tape.html. Individuals and businesses are also encouraged to contact the RTRC directly at redtape.review@sos.state.nj.us.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160524a.html
