Public Statements
Bergen Charter Student: If Winning This Award Means Anything, Perhaps I Too Will Be Gov. Someday
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 18, 2016
Location: Unknown

Abigail Yashiro: Having the opportunity to represent New Jersey as one of the two US Senate Youth Program delegates from the state is an absolute honor. It is even more special knowing that Governor Christie is a former recipient and delegate himself. If winning this award means anything, perhaps I too will be governor someday. New Jersey has provided me with such great educational opportunities. This school has prepared me for my future and I chose to stay here in New Jersey and study at Rutgers University this fall. So, today I am proud to introduce our governor, who has been a great champion of charter schools and has provided a quality education for every student in our state. I am pleased to present Governor Chris Christie.
Governor Christie: I want to congratulate Abigail on her recognition as one of two New Jersey high school students chosen to participate in the United States Senate Youth Program in Washington D.C. this past March. Now, as Abigail will tell you, the week long program promotes public service by providing highly qualified high school delegates, two from each state in the nation, the opportunity to see the federal executive, legislative and judicial branches of government up close. From briefings and meetings with cabinet members, senators, supreme court justice, even the president, the United States Senate Youth Program is fostering our future leaders. It is unfortunate for me to have to admit that I was one of New Jersey's two representatives to the United States Senate Youth Program thirty six years ago- that's the unfortunate part, not that I went- in the class of 1980. I am proud to be able to say that, Abigail, you can have a really good distinction as well if you later become Governor of New Jersey. I am the first United States Senate Youth Program participant to ever be elected governor of a state, so maybe you could be number two. That would be really good.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160518b.html
