Public Statements
Changing The Face Of Education In New Jersey
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 16, 2016
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Christie is visiting the temporary location of the Thomas Edison EnergySmart Charter School (TEECS) in Franklin Township, Somerset County, to highlight his continued commitment to investing in innovative educational opportunities for all of New Jersey's school children. Since the beginning of his administration, Governor Christie has demonstrated a commitment to investing in innovative, successful charter schools that outperform and exceed expectations at every level.
TEECS is a tuition-free K-7 charter school that will be relocating this fall to a new facility on Pierce Street in Somerset. It is dedicated to developing students' academic, technical, personal and critical thinking skills that are necessary to meet the standards that will enable them to succeed in a changing economy predicated on knowledge and innovation. Their mission statement calls for all students to be green/renewable energy literate upon graduation making them the first K-7 school in the state to focus specifically on green/renewable energy. Over the past three years, Thomas Edison has a received a Tier Rank of 1, the highest rank possible, based on the standards of the Charter School Performance Framework. The educational success achieved by the students at TEECS only serves to reaffirm Governor Christie's determination to ensuring that all of New Jersey's students are provided with their best opportunity to succeed.
In his 2016 State of the State address, Governor Christie announced a series of regulatory and policy reforms that will make it easier for successful charter schools to operate and expand across New Jersey. This initiative further demonstrates the Christie Administration's devotion to increasing opportunities for children and families in every community, ensuring every student will graduate high school career and college ready.

INCREASED ACCESS TO HIGH-QUALITY CHARTER SCHOOLS
Expanding Educational Opportunities For Children And Families
Governor Christie has improved the authorizing and application process, encouraged more charter school applicants, created greater flexibility with administration and finances, and allowed districts to convert failing public schools into charters. The Christie Administration has increased the overall number of charter schools in New Jersey to 89, while relentlessly focusing on quality and holding all schools accountable for results by closing 17 charter schools to date.
Governor Christie continues to support new educational options for our children by providing $10 million for Charter School Aid in fiscal year 2016. This funding aids in the support of more than 41,000 students in our charter schools. This is in addition to the tens of millions of dollars in State Aid that flow through the districts to charter schools. In certain districts, like Newark and Camden, charter schools are educating more than one-third of their public school populations, proving that charter schools are a valued option in the public education system and that every child, regardless of his or her ZIP code, deserves access to a high-quality school.
In his proposed Fiscal Year 2017 State Budget, Governor Christie has, for the third consecutive year, proposed a record-high investment in K-12 public schools of more than $13 billion, including funds that will help newly approved charter schools create opportunities for New Jersey's many at-risk youth in Newark and other urban areas.
In February 2016, the DOE approved the expansion of 16 charter schools, renewed the charters of 19 schools, and approved 3 new schools to open in the 2017-2018 school year. Three new charter schools, approved last year, will be opening in the 2016-2017 school year.
Improving Oversight
The Christie Administration has worked to improve accountability for these charter schools by instituting an oversight program that sets clear expectations for charter school performance and serves as the basis for school evaluation, monitoring, and intervention.
* The Performance Framework sets the academic, organizational and fiscal standards by which all New Jersey public charter schools are evaluated, informing officials about school performance and sustainability.
* NJDOE officials expanded the rigorous standards and metrics by which each and every public charter school is evaluated. This enabled NJDOE officials to take multiple factors into account when evaluating public charter schools across the state.
RESOUNDING SUCCESS OF CHARTER SCHOOLS
According to a 2015 independent report on Urban Charter Schools by The Center for Research on Education Outcomes (CREDO), students enrolled in charter schools in Newark, on average, make statistically significantly greater gains in both reading and math compared to their counterparts enrolled in Newark's traditional public schools. While, in Newark, charter schools on average are doing a better job of closing achievement gaps than are traditional public schools.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160516a.html
