Public Statements
Governor Christie: You Are The First Tangible Evidence Of Camden's Future
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 9, 2016
Location: Unknown

Today is one of those moments when, something that started for me in 2010, continued in 2012, is now concluding itself as an idea in 2016. The idea that Cooper Medical School and Rowan University could put together a world class faculty, attract top notch students, train them and educate them here in the City of Camden and then have them go forth from today, as someone said earlier, as ambassadors for your school, for this community and for the quality of the education that you've received here. It's probably hard for any of you to fully grasp how important you are in the renaissance of this city. But your faith and confidence to come and be educated here in the City of Camden helped to spread faith and confidence to others in the private sector, to other governmental agencies and to the citizens of this city, both residents and business citizens that in fact, there could be a new day dawning for this city. You are the first tangible evidence of Camden's future. And I am extraordinarily proud to be here with you today to make that acknowledgement to each and every one of you directly. You have great responsibilities ahead of you and also extraordinary opportunities. I'm confident that you'll use your judgement to make the most of those opportunities, and to meet as aggressively as you possible can, each one of those responsibilities. Responsibilities to patients and their families, who will look to you for answers they cannot comprehend. And for comfort only that you, based upon your knowledge and experience can provide. To those you work with every day, your colleagues to be generous in sharing your wisdom and your opinions without regard to whether you think they'll be well received at the moment or not. You have an obligation to share the gifts that God has given each and every one of you, and this education is one of those, but more importantly it's the heart and soul that each of you possess in wanting to serve others. As a physician that will lead you to be providing extraordinary comfort and service to many of those that you will encounter over the course of your career. Lastly, I'd say this to you as a parent of someone who is graduating this year too, it also may be a little bit hard for you to comprehend how extraordinarily proud your parents and loved ones are of you today and what a sense of investment they feel in what you have accomplished. I can recall that the night that the son, our oldest son, who is graduating in a few weeks, was born. And he was born in a hospital very close to my parent's home. And after everything looked fine and he was off in his bassinette then getting his first feeding with his mother it was time for me to get out of there. And instead of going directly home I stopped at my parent's house and I walked in and I said I can't stay for long I just want to tell you one thing, I'm sorry. My parents said, you're sorry? It's a great day you gave us our first grandchild, what are you sorry about. I said I'm sorry because remember all the times you told me that I would never really understand how you felt until I had a child of my own? I've only had one for 7 hours and I already get it. And I'm sorry for saying you were stupid for saying something like that. I'd say the same thing to all of you today, for those graduates who are not yet parents themselves, I want you to understand how extraordinary a day this is for your parents and your loved ones who are here and those who couldn't be here but are sharing the moment with you. Receiving a medical degree and becoming a physician in this country is a great great achievement and brings with it a great sense of pride for all those who are associated with you. So yes you have great opportunities and great responsibilities ahead of you, tomorrow. But for today, enjoy with them all that you have achieved. Revel in the fact that you have gotten to this moment, for many of you I'm sure you've been thinking about it for a long long time. Don't worry about the responsibilities and the opportunities today. Be with your families and enjoy this moment with them because believe me, as a parent myself, I could tell you I am confident that they are extraordinarily proud of you, as am I. Congratulations.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160509b.html
