Public Statements
Governor Christie: It's Not About Spending Enough Money, It's About Spending Money The Right Way
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 9, 2016
Location: Unknown

What we're giving them is a hand up, an opportunity as she put it. To do something with their lives that will enhance them personally, and professionally as they move forward. And so all of these things are about making sure that we provide the type of opportunities that all of our students, no matter where you go to high school, should have. There is lots of debate and discussion about all of this throughout the state and the state has spent decades trying to get, especially in some of our urban districts, students ready for college and career and they have failed miserably at it because our courts and others believe that the only thing that does that is money. It's not just money. Money is important and that is why I am putting the extra million dollars in. But remember something - we are sending hundreds of millions of dollars per school district to failing school districts. And failing school districts are not just failing the taxpayers, much more importantly, they are failing the families and the children of those families in urban centers throughout the state. And the insanity that if we keep doing the same thing over and over again we will get a better result, is an insult to students like Siani. So, we are going to try all kinds of different things, at least in this administration, to try to get results. And when you listen to those numbers from just the first year: 54% here in Camden, 97% in Atlantic and Cape May, 92% in Bergen County then go on to enroll in college. And don't go enroll in college feeling lesser or diminished from where they have come from or what their education has been. But feeling ready, equal, if not better than equal to their fellow students that will be entering the classroom with them. Those are the things that we need to do. It's not about spending enough money, it's about spending money the right way.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160509e.html
