Public Statements
Governor Christie Tours New Rider University/Westminster Choir College Academic Building
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 5, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Delivering on his promise to provide New Jersey's colleges and universities with modern, world-class facilities, Governor Chris Christie today visited the Marion Buckelew Cullen Center at Rider University's Westminster Choir College in Princeton. The 11,790-square-foot academic building opened for classes in September of 2014 and was funded through $4.2 million in Building Our Future General Obligation Bond Act funding.
"As I travel around New Jersey viewing the projects paid for with GO Bond funds, I can see a very bright future full of opportunity for our state's students," said Governor Christie. "New Jersey's institutions of higher learning need cutting-edge facilities and programs like these that will prepare students to enter the workforce with skills that will help them succeed in the 21st century."
Part of Rider University, Westminster Choir College is a residential college of music located on a 23-acre campus in Princeton. The four-year school prepares people for careers as performers and music leaders in schools, universities, churches and professional and community organizations.
The first newly-constructed academic building on campus in 39 years, the Cullen Center includes the 3,000-square-foot Hillman Performance Hall, capable of accommodating 16 to 225 performers with a maximum occupancy of 500, including an audience. The building also consists of a large lobby; green room for guests; flexibly configured classrooms for a wide range of academic and choral uses; an integrated connection to The Playhouse that provides improved audience access, a ticket booth, and handicap-accessible restrooms. The $8.5 million Cullen Center project was the result of a public/private partnership, with more than half the funding coming from state higher education grants.
Signed by Governor Christie and approved by voters, the GO Bond Act was the first state-backed funding for higher education construction in 25 years and authorized up to $750 million in state grants for new academic facilities. Combined with grant funding made available from other state-supported grant programs for higher education facilities, the Christie Administration authorized nearly $1.3 billion in grants in 2013 for 176 projects at 46 institutions for cutting-edge research laboratories, computerized classrooms and cyber networks that allow students and faculty to interact with colleagues around the world.
In November 2015, Governor Christie announced a second round of funding for higher education construction projects. Those projects will be announced later this year.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160505a.html
