Public Statements
Governor Christie: This Executive Order Is A Sea Change In The Way Government Is Managed
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 1, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: This is a big day in changing state government. To take away that authority and personnel from every one of the state departments and agencies and put it in your hands is a sea change in the way government is managed given how integral Information Technology is to the everyday operation of government. This is about a common-sense approach to taking us to a new level in terms of our information technology and what we know is our customers, the 8.9 million people of the State of New Jersey are going to demand we do it. If you look at any of us in this room, at least almost any of us, our children know a lot about this stuff and they live their lives much differently than we did growing up. You know, my kids don't ever look at a newspaper, ever. Every bit of news and information they get is over their phone, or in their laptop, or on their iPad. They don't process, research, do things any way like we did it when we were their age. We have to acknowledge that in this respect as a customer service business. They don't want to hear how complex this is because to them it isn't, they want us to be able to deliver the information they need, the services they need, in a way that they want to consume it, and for them it's usually through a phone or through a laptop. And so we need to make sure that we meet that demand because if we don't we're not doing our jobs. So this is a big day and a big change, and your leader here has been advocating for this for a while with me and he's convinced me that it's the right thing to do and I believe that we will lead the region and the nation by doing this in a way that makes sense, that's efficient, and is effective for the people that you work with every day and that we serve as our customers. So you all need to understand not only how grateful I am for your hard work but how much faith and confidence I'm placing in you.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170601b.html
