Public Statements
Governor Christie: It Is A Tragedy For The NJIT Community And The State
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Unknown

The murder of Joe Micalizzi at 23 years old is an extraordinary tragedy, not only for this university's community but also for us as a state and for me as a father. I have a son who is in college right now getting ready to graduate in just a few weeks. It is one of the most optimistic times of life when you're in a university setting, you're learning every day, you're experiencing growing up with your peers and especially for someone like Joe who is a member of a fraternity, also learning what it's like to grow up with people that come from all different kinds of backgrounds and experiences, but come here unified by one goal, which is to learn, to improve their lives and to grow up. We never ever think that the conclusion of this experience will be anything other than a cap and gown, and a diploma, and a job, and a career. For someone coming from Freehold New Jersey, with a dad whose working two jobs to help to afford to send him here. For him to have to deal with it and his family to have to deal with it. Not just the Micalizzi family but also as the family of NJIT is an awfully, awfully difficult thing. And so I just want to extend on behalf of the people of the state and on behalf of me and Mary Pat, our condolences to both those families. Joe's nuclear family and Joe's university family. Both of them I suspect were precious to him and for those young men and women here who call themselves Joe's friends, the only way in to, in my mind to show tribute to him and to his life is for you to do those things that he and his family wish he could be doing today. Finish your degree, develop your relationships and move forward in a way that contributes to our society and to your own individual families in a much broader way. Condolences are not enough. I am a father of four. There could never be enough condolences that could be given to a mother or a father who lose their child, it's the most unnatural thing that could happen to anyone in the normal arch of life. We expect our children to be there for us when we die, not the other way around. For those of you who know this family personally I'd urge you not, it's always an awkward thing, but don't stay away, move forward, embrace them. And as parents let them know how much you feel their pain. It will help, I guarantee it will help.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160503d.html
