Public Statements
Governor Christie: We Want To Keep Our Best And Brightest In New Jersey
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Unknown

By 2020 enrollment at NJIT is estimated to expand by more than 14,000 students, a 50% enrollment increase from 2011 and a 75% enrollment increase over 2005. New Jersey will need to fill about 200,000 STEM related jobs by 2018. Historically, NJIT has provided more than a quarter of the Garden State's engineers. And that is a record I know that everyone here is very proud of and I know that you want to build on. More than 95% of the degrees awarded by NJIT fit directly into the targeted employment needs in New Jersey that I just spoke about. That means for the students here, you are getting an education here that will lead you not only to a rewarding career but a well-paying job, most likely close to home. Which is something that we want to continue here. We do not want a brain drain from New Jersey to other states. We want to keep our best and our brightest not only going to school here but staying and building their careers and their lives here. In addition, this project is bringing critical community redevelopment to Newark by transforming this building into a real visual landmark, known now as an educational destination once again and an anchor for the transformation of the University Heights neighborhood, all really important. Students will be able to compete globally because of the education they receive in this building and on this campus. And the future of our state requires that we invest in that. That is why I have done what I have done with this investment. I will tell you that it could not have been done just by a governor. It is done by the legislature too. And I want to compliment former Speaker Oliver, who was integral into putting this together, along with Senate President Sweeney and Republican Leaders Kean and Bramnick, who helped to put this together as well. I cannot as governor, do these things on my own and I do not pretend that I do. But we are proud of the fact that for the first time in 25 years, that it is this administration that has said we need to invest capital money in our higher education system. Lots of people talk about wanting to be an education governor. You need to put your money where your mouth is on this stuff. And higher education had been neglected for much too long.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160503c.html
