Public Statements
Governor Christie Takes Decisive Action to Safeguard School Children from Lead Exposure
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 2, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Building on New Jersey's strong record as a national leader in combating the dangers of lead exposure for children, Governor Chris Christie today announced a comprehensive plan that will further safeguard students, as well as teachers and school personnel, from the potential of lead contamination in school drinking water and called on the Legislature to appropriate $10 million to support his action.
"This administration has always been committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of the most-vulnerable in our society, particularly our children, and that is what we will continue to do through the new lead testing regulations and enhanced health standards I announced today," said Governor Christie. "We are continuing our commitment to addressing the dangers of elevated lead levels wherever they exist, using the highest testing standards available. At this point, we know the risk of lead contamination is not in our water sources, but in the aging pipes and support systems delivering water through fountains and faucets."
Recently, elevated levels of lead were discovered in some drinking water delivery systems in Newark and some other school districts around the state.
Governor Christie today directed the New Jersey Department of Education (DOE) to address concerns about elevated lead levels in school water systems by strengthening regulations that already require the provision of safe drinking water to mandate lead hazard water testing in schools. The new mandate will apply to approximately 3,000 facilities beginning in the next school year. The DOE will work with the Department of Environmental Protection to determine scientifically appropriate protocols to advise schools of how the testing should be performed, according to their particular needs.
Governor Christie also directed Education Commissioner David Hespe to require schools, through regulation, to publicly post all test results and immediately notify parents if testing shows elevated levels of lead. Schools also must provide parents with a description of any steps the school is taking to ensure safe drinking water will be made available to students.

Source:
