Public Statements
Governor Christie: The Character You Bring To Your Uniform Will Bring Continued Honor To The State Police
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 23, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: The law enforcement officers here in this state understand that they face a uniquely dangerous and challenging time, but that you have been trained and prepared to deal with those challenges and to meet them head-on. The pressure that will be on each individual law enforcement officer is arguably more intense today than at any time in our state's history. You are required to be vigilant in dealing with the day-to-day criminal activity that every society has always faced while you also need to be looking for the large-scale destructive and murderous activities of religious and political zealots. Additionally, modern policing requires our officers, our troopers to engage regularly with the community, meeting folks one-on-one or in groups, and you have to meet with groups that sometimes target you, but you must rise above the petty jealousies or hatreds of others. You represent the 8.9 million people of this state and I count on the fact that you will do it well. Now, each and every one of you also understand that the challenges that we face in a 24-hour news society where everybody, everybody has one of these where they could video you at any time puts you and unique pressures on you in terms of the way you interact with the community. I trust that you are ready to stand up to that standard of scrutiny. That the training that you have gotten and the character that you bring to your uniform each and every day will be able to stand up to that scrutiny and beyond that will bring continued honor to the group that you now join. Being a New Jersey State Trooper is a job that requires courage, requires commitment and often putting personal safety at risk. You're here today because you have demonstrated those qualities through your training and because we, all of us, in leadership in New Jersey trust you to put those qualities into action when you put on your uniform and represent our state on the job each and every day.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170623c.html
