Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces Enhanced MVC Customer Service Training
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Acting on his commitment to high standards of service, Governor Christie today announced additional customer service training for New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission (MVC) employees. MVC will immediately require all employees at every level, including the Chief Administrator, Raymond P. Martinez, to undergo thorough customer service training during the course of the next year.
"Providing outstanding customer service at the MVC and throughout state government has been a key component of my administration," said Governor Christie. "While the MVC already has set the bar high for service, increased training can only make for a better experience for our residents."
Governor Christie visited the South Plainfield MVC office last week to assist a 17-year-old in replacing a destroyed learner's permit. Within 10 minutes, the Governor was able to straighten out the matter and the teenager received his permit.
The enhanced training will focus on customer service fundamentals, such as treating people as valued customers, proper phone etiquette, and calling back customers within a reasonable amount of time -- at most, within one business day. Additional targeted customer service training will be ongoing and conducted once per month with the MVC's front line staff.
Currently, customer service training courses are offered every two weeks, but are only mandated for new employees.
"The New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission is committed to providing excellent customer service," said Chief Administrator Ray Martinez. "We view each of our customer contacts as an opportunity to better serve the public and ensure that every New Jersey resident who visits one of our facilities has a pleasant and productive experience."
MVC handles approximately 24 million transactions per year in its agencies, over the phone and online. MVC has implemented several reforms in an ongoing effort to improve the customer experience. Skip the Trip allows residents to renew their license or ID by mail if the picture has not expired, which has enabled 1.3 million residents to renew their licenses through the mail and eliminate the need to go to an agency every four years. PIVS/QUE, currently a pilot program in Edison, Rahway and Bakers Basin, displays wait times and position in line on TVs in the agency. Once fully implemented, the program also will allow customers to utilize their mobile devices to see the wait times in real time. Six new agencies have been constructed and 10 agencies expanded or renovated to make the environment more friendly and hospitable. MVC has also incorporated the process to register to vote or become an organ donor into agencies' electronic signature pads.
Coming improvements include establishing a Mobile Agency, expected to launch in late 2016, that will be deployed to handle specific needs, such as senior citizens who cannot travel to agencies, and also can be used when an agency is down or experiencing high volume. Ongoing online enhancements are planned that would post agency wait times on the MVC website so people can plan their visit accordingly and allow individuals to schedule road tests online.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160428a.html
