Public Statements
Governor Christie: We Never Accept Anything Less Than The Best From Our Customer Service Providers
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: Unknown

You might remember just last week I visited the South Plainfield MVC to help a mom, Stacey Pilato, replace a damaged learner's permit for her 17 year old son. I accompanied her that day because I wanted to see for myself what she had gone through at motor vehicle which had not been a pleasant experience for her and her family. Overall, I want to say the quality of customer service delivered by MVC is very good. The general MVC experience, through a lot of the reforms that Ray and his team have put together have really made that experience much better, a lot of people being able to skip the trip to MVC at all now is a great innovation and one that we think has helped, literally, hundreds of thousands of New Jerseyans. As Ray mentioned, 24 million transactions a year over the phone, online and in person and Stacey and her son Isaac reminded us last week is that everybody's human. No one's perfect. We all make mistakes. That said, I have to agree with Ray. We never accept anything less than the best from our customer service providers who are on the front lines everyday interacting with the public. That means being accessible, listening to what customers have to say, most importantly, it's ensuring that our responses to the customer requests are followed through and completed in a timely manner. So to ensure that MVC consumers receive the best consumer service we can provide, I am announcing several proposed enhancements to MVC's current customer service training program. Presently, customer service training courses are offered every two weeks but are only mandated for new employees. Our new proposal will require that all MVC employees attend customer service training annually, at a minimum. Additional targeted customer service training will be ongoing and will be conducted once a month with MVC's front line staff. This training can be built into the employees current schedule and target needs specific to the agency. Similar to the customer service initiative undertaken by DEP early in the administration, MVC would immediately require all employees, from Ray on down, to undergo thorough customer service training during the course of the next year. Training sessions would focus on customer service fundamentals: proper phone etiquette, calling back customers within a reasonable amount of time, at most within one business day and making sure that people are attending to that. In addition to implementing these new training procedures, I'm directing Ray and his team to review current practices and processes to determine other new initiatives that could further enhance the customer service experience including, how time spent in agencies could be reduced and handling transactions in a more efficient manner. Ray will report back to me on his findings and his recommendations. Providing excellent customer service at MVC and throughout the state government has been a key component of our administration, and while MVC has a high standard for service, we can always get better. And my reminder today after six and a half years here is that we need to do more on customer service training and we will. And so that is what we are doing. I am looking forward to every MVC employee going through this training within the next year and to improving the level of service even beyond what we have already. And I appreciate Ray's cooperation with this and we look forward to seeing the results, most importantly, I am sure the people of New Jersey look forward to seeing the results.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160428b.html
