Public Statements
Governor Christie: Thank You For Your Willingness To Be A Part Of Our Broader Community
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 27, 2016
Location: Unknown

I want to thank you for your willingness to be a part of our broader community. As I look around this room there are a lot of people that I know who are involved in lots of other things outside your business that make this state great. Volunteer work, philanthropic work in your communities to make your towns a better place, to make our state a better place. You are a part of the fabric of this state in ways that are much more than just your business activity. You are the ones that sponsor little league teams and Pop Warner teams. You are the ones who get out there and coach on the fields. You are the ones who deal with supporting our police and our fire when there is a tragedy. You are the ones who always answer the phone and if you can find a way to yes, you find a way to yes to help people in need in this state and that is incredibly uplifting for me as well. Lastly, I want to thank you for your personal support of me. Now I know there are times when, maybe, and I do not know why, but sometimes it may be more difficult to support me than others. Every once in a while there may be some things that come out of my mouth and you go, oh god, I cannot believe he said that. I hope there are also times that there are things that come out of my mouth and you go thank god someone finally said that. That is the double edged sword of honesty and leadership. And so I want to tell you that your support of me over the last six and a half years means a great deal to me and will continue to. And that Mary Pat and I feel extraordinarily privileged and honored for the last six and a half years to be the governor of this state and the first lady of this state. And we tried as hard as we can every day, to represent you in a way that makes you feel good about where you live and where you work and what you call home.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160427b.html
