Public Statements
Governor Christie: Working With Mayor Jackson, We Will Make Our Capital City The Shining City In NJ
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 30, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: Really, it's a leap of faith in Trenton's future. No one would come here today and decide that of all the cities in New Jersey, this is the best place to make your investment based on what we see on the ground but what they see now is the potential for the future, with honest and effective leadership from the city government, from the county government that now feels like it can be engaged even more aggressively and the state government now saying we are willing to invest our money, our resources in making this happen. I hope the city utilizes the opportunity for renaissance schools, the opportunities as a New Jersey Growth Zone that are going to allow it to attract even more private sector investment. I hope that businesses will come to the EDA and look at the extraordinary opportunities that are available here to build new businesses and to be incentivized to do that in a way that is going to be very, very profitable for them in the long term. If it's profitable to them in the long term, it is going to be enormously beneficial to the residents of the City of Trenton and to the state government that operates here every day so I want to thank the mayor again for his leadership, for his confidence. I told him we were working on things that were going to make him happy. I know there were moments where he thought that maybe I had forgotten, but you know, you've got to make sure you put this all together right so that when you get behind a microphone people are going to actually begin to now see buildings like the ones around us be taken down and clear the way for new development to occur in the city where families will want to live here, raise their children here, send their children to school here and I will once again say to you for all those people who say that it's impossible, for all those skeptics, take a look at the City of Camden. Trenton, I would argue to you has a better basis than Camden did for confidence in the fact that they can come back but we need to get to work. I'm doing it. I'm confident that this mayor and this council will continue to do that and I want them to know that for the remaining time that I have in office they have a full partner in me as I've tried to be every day since Mayor Jackson took office. So I want to thank you all for coming, for your faith and confidence in Trenton. I want to thank the members of my administration who worked hard to find the money to be able to make this a reality and we are going to continue to look for ways to help the City of Trenton as we move forward and make sure that our capital city becomes the shining city in the State of New Jersey that it has been before and that I am confident if we make the investments and the commitment that it will be again. Thank you all for coming today.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170530f.html
