Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces Bi-State Collaboration With State of New York In Fight Against Drug Addiction
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 26, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie announced today that the States of New Jersey and New York have joined forces in the national fight against heroin and opioid addiction by sharing data to track prescription sales of narcotic painkillers and other drugs that often lead to addiction.
"New Jersey and New York share a close relationship in which our residents regularly travel between the states for business and pleasure. Today we're coming together for another purpose -- to fight the devastating scourge of drug addiction," said Governor Christie. "By tracking the sale of prescription opioids across our state lines, doctors and prescribers in New Jersey and New York can work together to identify addicts seeking new places to feed their devastating habit."
New York is the latest state to partner with New Jersey's Prescription Monitoring Program (NJPMP) to share records on the sale of prescriptions for Controlled Dangerous Substances (CDS). Delaware, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Virginia, Minnesota, and South Carolina also share their prescription monitoring data with New Jersey, which allows prescribers and pharmacists to identify "doctor shoppers" who cross state lines to obtain their drugs fraudulently.
With today's announced partnership with New York, the State of New Jersey has taken another significant step forward in combatting a national heroin and opioid crisis fueled, in part, by patients who become addicted to prescription pain pills.
"Partnering with New York adds tremendous power to the NJPMP's ability to track suspicious signs of prescription drug misuse," said Acting Attorney General Robert Lougy said. "We now have one more ally in our multi-state fight against opioid abuse."
New Jersey established the NJPMP database in September 2011. To date, the NJPMP contains nearly 59 million records of prescription drug prescribing and dispensing, including prescriptions for Human Growth Hormone (HGH).

Source:
