Public Statements
Governor Christie To Addiction Treatment Call Center: You Are Doing God's Work Here On Earth
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 22, 2016
Location: Unknown

Heather Carns: I put a call into here. I was, I was not in great shape at that time. I was under the influence quite heavily, and I ended up finding out today that I talked to a girl Erica. God bless her for what she did in answering my call, and she was a voice for me and got me connected to Maryville...and that day I was in a hospital overnight and I was not admitted but I was in the morning, was given that piece of paper and I rushed home. My mom picked me up and I rushed home by 10:30 to be able to call, to make my call for Maryville that day, and that was on Friday morning. Saturday morning, I made it to Saturday morning and Maryville said that if, if there was a bed available would I be able to come in, and that was December 11th. December 12th is my sobriety date, 2015.
Governor Christie: Incredibly touched my Heather's story. The significance that she places on December 12th tells you not only how important what we do here is, but it also tells you how desperately she wanted to be helped, and I think sometimes we, we make the wrong assumption regarding this disease. Well if people wanted to be helped they would be. Sometimes they just can't be, and sometimes that's our fault and that's why setting up this, you know, one-call place for people was such an important priority of mine. To have the courage to make that call in the first place is often very difficult, and when you have the courage to make that call it shouldn't take you a notebook full of numbers or a stray envelope full of numbers, which I heard about today, to get the help that you need once you muster up the courage to tell someone I'm an addict and I need help, and so to both Heather and to Patrick, who I had an opportunity to meet again he reminded me. We met each other at a political rally for my reelection some time ago, and to see him there then and now to see him here now is, is really an amazing, amazing testimony to the work that the people here are doing. You know, you all who are doing this work are really doing God's work here on earth. That is what you are doing. I absolutely believe that the people who are doing this work are instruments God has placed on earth to help the flawed people, all of us, who He placed here. And so you know, you are really doing an extraordinary thing. And I continue to come to these places and visit with you, not only to commend you, which I do, and to bring attention to you, which I hope we do, but also to inspire myself to not forget about how important this job is and how much work we need to do to get it done.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160422d.html
