Public Statements
Governor Christie On Addiction: We Need To Acknowledge That It Happens Everywhere
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 18, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: As the governor you always want to try to do things that you hope will be in the best interest of the people that you serve and the people who have elected you. But on this issue I'm not only doing it for that reason, but I am also a father of four children. And what I say to folks all the time who I meet, whose families have gone through the throws of this addiction is that there but for the grace of God go I. And I thank God every day for the fact that, to this point in time, my children have avoided this particular disease. But I know that that's just a temporary circumstance and tomorrow that can change, without regard to how good a parent or bad a parent I have been. These are decisions that your children make. And we need to make sure that we acknowledge the fact that families of every kind in this state, from every corner of it are suffering from this disease. And we should not be making judgments, we should be reaching our hand out to help them, to help them get through, as someone said to me upstairs today, the wreckage that is created by this disease inside a family. And also, to allow them to understand that we don't judge them as parents when their children fall victim to this disease any more than we would judge them if their child fell victim to cancer or diabetes or heart disease. It's a disease and we need to help treat those children and get them to recovery and help those parents understand that they need to be a part of solution and not living in quiet or in shame or what has happened inside their family because, as I said upstairs to these folks, 565 towns in this state and in every little town and in every little street in those little towns, inside those homes with the nice soft lights on the front porch, tough things are happening. And we need to acknowledge that as a society and understand that it happens everywhere and to try to be there to help correct that situation. And that is one of the things I have cared about most in this governorship and what I will continue to care about over all the time that I serve as governor.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160418f.html
