Public Statements
Governor Christie: We Cannot Sit Back And Wait For Miracles To Happen
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 14, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

So I'm pleased to announce the launch of a new Department of Labor retraining and job placement program known as Talent Development Centers. They'll provide specialized training in three key industries that we know are in need of skilled workers. These centers will be housed in three places: Here at Union County College, at Rutgers, and at Camden County College, and will provide education and retraining opportunities in these industries: Advanced manufacturing will happen at Camden County College. Health care will happen at Rutgers, and transportation, distribution, and logistics right here at Union County College. Displaced workers as well as those currently employed will have access to training and educational opportunities to develop and gain new skills, opening new employment opportunities in our state's leading centers. Employers in these industry clusters: health care, manufacturing, transportation, distribution and logistics - have identified the skills that these centers will provide to the individuals. These centers are being awarded $2.7 million in grants--$900,000 for each center--for the first year with the possibility of renewing beyond that, and I think it's important to note that this is something that we really need to do as a state. It's driven by two things: employer needs, what they're saying they need to fill the jobs that they have open now, and secondly, it's driven by which institutions are the ones that are best situated and best qualified to be able to provide this work. This is no random selection to have selected Union County College. In the area of transportation, distribution, and logistics, Union County College will rise above all of the other institutions in this state to be able to provide that type of training and when you look at--I was at a groundbreaking a week or two ago for UPS in Morris County, opening up one of their largest in the country building that will open, one of the largest in the country information logistics centers. Those are going to be jobs, thousands of jobs that are going to be there and housed in New Jersey, and the folks who get retrained here at Union County College in those areas are going to be best prepared to put their names forward for those type of jobs that are really good-paying jobs that provide a great salary and opportunity for a really good career in a major company like UPS that serves the entire world, so that's what we're trying to do. We have a highly skilled, highly-educated workforce in the state. That's one of the reasons why folks want to continue to locate in our state, but we can't sit back and wait for miracles to happen. We have to make good things happen and these kind of grants today are one of the reasons why we're doing that.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160414a.html
