Public Statements
Governor Christie On NJ Supreme Court Agreement: We Are Getting Our Jobs Done
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 11, 2016
Location: Unknown

Today, we're announcing that after much discussion we've reached a bipartisan agreement on a nomination to the New Jersey Supreme Court. Importantly, this will allow after many years for our state's highest court to have a full membership of justices duly nominated by the Governor and confirmed by the state Senate. Today, I will submit a notice of intention to nominate Walter Timpone to the position of Associate Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court. The Senate President has agreed to see that his nomination will be scheduled for hearings in a timely manner. Once approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee, as I expect someone as well-qualified as Mr. Timpone to be, he will then be given an up-or-down vote in the Senate. Before I discuss his qualifications and give the Senate President an opportunity to make some remarks as well, I want to talk to the people of our state about what this signifies. We're getting our jobs done, and that's what this has been about right from the beginning. The Senate President and I have worked hard over the years to try to make sure that things are accomplished for the people of this state. A judicial nomination process which works appropriately is something that the state needs and something that I am relieved to be able to make sure continues for the state from here. The fact is that we're going to have disagreements over times as we have about this nomination, but I am pleased that we've been able to reach an agreement and I look forward to there being a fully constitutionally-constituted court. Now I've known Walter--his real name is Wally from my perspective--for over 15 years as a person of great accomplishment and integrity, and who is well-known and highly respected for his commitment to public service and his knowledge of the law.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160411c.html
