Public Statements
Governor Christie: This Is The Math And These Are The Facts. There Is No Debate About This.
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 31, 2016
Location: Unknown

These are the numbers, this is the math, and these are the facts, and there is no debate about this. The only debate now is what do we do about it? If the State does not step in and deal with the cost side of the equation the hope of the Assembly Speaker and the Mayor that this problem will be magically resolved by the PILOT bill alone is just wrong. It is a fairy tale and worse yet, they know it. Now the Speaker has had a lot to say the past couple of days about me not using this authority that I supposedly have, so let us get specific about that. Without the takeover, the State cannot in absolute terms do the following: we cannot end the practice of granting excessive terminal leave pay to non-unionized employees, some of whom have received over two hundred thousand dollar boat checks, as I have called them over the years, to buy their boat on the way out. Much of the rest of the State has done away with this practice or capped it at fifteen thousand dollars. No such action in Atlantic City and we cannot force them to do it under the current authority that we have. We cannot achieve significant cost savings by modernizing or outsourcing the waste hauling services to a private contractor or the County. Cannot be done under my current authority, cannot force them to do it. I cannot eliminate their platinum plus-plus health insurance plan that was done away with for active State workers nearly twenty years ago, cannot do that under the current authority. We cannot be directly be involved in the labor management of the City, instead I would leave it to city officials who have continued to permit these overly generous coverages and benefits, grossly excessive health benefits and out of touch terminal leave. Now, we cannot take the steps that may be necessary to re-negotiate with the City's public sector unions to get these exorbitant costs of the City's work force under control. The current set of laws does not give me the authority to do that. Now, the new collective bargaining agreements that the Speaker claims the Director of Local Government Services has the authority to approve are still subject to arbitration awards, and the Speaker really dishonestly quoted the law, when he states that "The Local Finance Board can authorize the fixing of hours and terms of employment for all municipal employees." That's where the Speaker ends the quote. Here's the problem, he did not quote the entire part of the statute. Which part did he conveniently cut off? The end. Which says, any changes are still constrained by existing labor agreements. So if they do not want to agree to a new agreement the old agreement stays in place and we cannot do anything to change the old agreement. So yeah, we could fix ours in terms of employment for all municipal employees as long as they were consistent with the existing agreement, which is what put Atlantic City in this spot in the first place. So the Speaker needs to read the whole statute, which I think he did, and stop the partisan Office of Legislative Services from writing these kind of BS memos that they put out.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160331f.html
