Public Statements
Governor Christie: Drug Court Is Making A Difference In People's Lives
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 31, 2016
Location: Unknown

Drug Court is making a difference. You can see it in the eyes and hear it in the voices of the men that I just met with and with many other men and women around the state where I've had the opportunity to meet with over my time as Governor. This has given them a second chance at life, and that's an extraordinary gift. I'm proud that we put into place landmark legislation that is making our Drug Court expand to all of New Jersey's 21 counties by 2017. We've already implemented the program in nine different counties, with Essex, Cumberland, Salem, Gloucester, Middlesex slated for 2016, this July. The final three courts, Camden, Morris/Sussex and Union are due to be phased in by July of 2017. I want to thank Joe for his tremendous work that's been done by Straight & Narrow in this area going all the way back years and years as he mentioned. The 50 new halfway house beds here, which are on the refurbished second and third floors of the former warehouse area, are part of our Phase II Drug Court Expansion and ensures our system of reentry is providing services and assistance required to help ex-offenders to get on a positive path for themselves and for their families. In 2015 alone, 5,344 people received treatment through Drug Court and it's now over 19,000 people since the program's inception. At the same time, it's important to note that the rate at which drug court graduates are re-arrested for new offenses is down to 16 percent and the reconviction rate is just 8 percent. Now it's important: 16 percent rearrested; 8 percent reconvicted for those who go through Drug Court. For drug offenders who do not go through Drug Court, re-arrest is at 54 percent and reconvictions at 43 percent. No one can tell me that Drug Court doesn't make a difference in people's lives. It does.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160331b.html
