Public Statements
Gov. Christie: More People Are Employed Today Than At Any Time In The State's History
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 24, 2016
Location: Unknown

The results are undeniable, and I had a great question when I was in Newark a week or so ago from a member of the press who asked me, did I think this was coincidental, and I thought that's just so typical of the kind of questions I get asked. When we were a full point or more higher than the national average, everyone said it was because our policies were failing. Now that we're 6/10ths of a point below I have certain members of the media asking me if that's coincidental. Well, if it wasn't coincidental when we were a point or more higher, it certainly isn't coincidental when we're 6/10ths of a point lower. The fact is that this administration has over and over again said that taxes and regulation are the biggest impediment to New Jersey's growth, so we've cut corporate taxes by $2.3 billion on businesses both large and small in New Jersey and those cuts have now been fully phased in. We killed the corporate business tax surcharge in 2010, which is a remnant of the Corzine administration. We cut regulation by one-third over where it was when I took office after Governor Corzine's time. Under the leadership of Commissioner Wirths, we brought the Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund back into solvency two years ahead of projections, and that saved businesses $213 million in taxes just in 2014 and another billion dollars over the succeeding five years, and that's unemployment taxes that the businesses do not have to pay that they otherwise would have had to pay if we hadn't done our job in the way we did it and the Commissioner deserves great credit for that, and the incentive programs now have over 192 projects approved for up to nearly $4 billion in incentives and over $4 ½ billion in resulting capital investment in our state, not to mention the employment that that's created. On that employment, 22,000 new jobs are being created by those incentives. 15,000 additional construction jobs that are being created because of these incentives. There's no doubt that New Jersey's economy has turned around and is more vibrant, more active with more people employed than any time in our history. The unemployment rate is lower than it's been at any time since 2007, nine years ago, and so it's undeniable that New Jersey's story is good, and what the Legislature needs to do now is open their ears and understand that it's these policies that have created this growth and it's beyond what's happened in any other state in the region, and we need to do more. We need to reduce taxes more for the people and the businesses of this state. We need to reduce regulation more, and if we do we're going to be in a situation where New Jersey can continue to thrive. We know this is a wonderful place to live. We know it is a great place to work, but we also know that over time misguided policies by the state has made it too expensive to live in, too expensive to work in. We need to continue to drive that down, and that's why I've vetoed every tax increase that's come to my desk in 6 ½ years as Governor and why I will veto every tax increase that comes to my desk that puts the people of New Jersey at a disadvantage and doesn't represent tax fairness for the people of the state, so the proof is in the pudding everybody. A 4.3% unemployment rate. It was 9.8% when I took office in January of 2010, more than cut in half now, and as I said before, the real great news of today, more people employed in the state of New Jersey today than at any time in the state's history. That's economic success. That success has been driven not only by the administration and its policies, but by good governmental partners like the county executive, who is always putting employment first in this county because he knows that if employment is first in Essex County then Essex County itself will be first, and by our private sector partners like the folks here at AeroFarms. They believe in us. They believe we're providing a stable business environment for them and they're willing to invest significant private sector dollars to do the things that you see happening right behind me. All those, all those things are really good news. The best part of all this is the smiling faces of the employees that I saw when I walked in here. They love working here. They have a job that provides them with a good salary and good benefits, provides for their families, and allows them to feel really good about coming to work every day. That changes families in our state and makes them better, more stable, more prosperous and happier, and that's the combined efforts of government when it's doing what it's supposed to be doing and the private sector when it's providing the type of growth that they're providing here in our state.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160324c.html
