Public Statements
ICYMI: "President Must Demand Return Of Chesimard"
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 23, 2016
Location: Unknown

As President Obama concludes what is deemed a historic visit to Havana, I once again remind the people of our country that this new engagement with Cuba doesn't come without a price. The Obama administration's unilateral action to open diplomatic ties comes at the expense of justice for slain New Jersey State Trooper Werner Foerster, wounded Trooper James Harper and their families.
For more than three decades, the Cuban government has given safe harbor and refuge to a domestic terrorist -- a cop killer who was duly tried and convicted by a jury of her peers, sentenced to imprisonment, and who fled justice rather than pay for her crimes. Every day that she remains at large from justice has been a travesty to her victims' families and the memory of Trooper Foerster.

I am asking the president to purposefully put aside his priorities of enhancing trade and travel with Cuba and stand up for the more important values of the United States as defenders of democratic liberty, rule of law and human rights.

I see no feasible path forward to achieving a true, peaceful relationship with any country that provides political asylum to an individual the Federal Bureau of Investigation designates as a domestic terrorist. Reopening an embassy in Havana and celebrating the opening of one in Washington, D.C., should not be the hallmarks of success in defining improved relations with Cuba. True progress would be a better and more just Cuba for its people and a reversal of human rights violations that continue to rise.
True progress would put an end to the safe haven Cuba is providing to a convicted killer.
Mr. President, if your investment in Cuba is to see any valuable returns, reforms that protect human rights and advance our principles of freedom must take precedence over economic gain.
By our own democratic principles, Chesimard should not be free and must be returned home.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160323a.html
