Public Statements
Gov. Christie: This Is Counseling And Help From People Who Have Fought Drug Addiction
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 22, 2016
Location: Unknown

The fact is, that this issue is an issue that affects families all over the state. And the idea of recovery coaches was an idea that our administration came up with, worked with our law enforcement folks, our folks in the health care system, to see on a pilot basis to whether it could make a difference or not. And the great news that we hear from Monmouth and Ocean County is that it is making a huge difference for these individuals and for their families. So I proposed in our budget this year to expand the program. We are going to look to expand it even further and look for partners in the private sector to work with us as well. It is very, very successful. And all you need to do is to meet some of the folks who have been impacted by folks like John and others intervening in their lives. From the perspective of knowing exactly what it is to have this addiction. And that is why I think the recovery coach program is so important. This is advice and counseling and help that comes from people that have been exactly where these folks are. And there is no way to substitute for that. Having gone through this myself, with a good friend of mine, trying to work with him and counsel him through ten years of a struggle with addiction which ended in his death. I understand as well as anybody that if you have not been through it, it is almost like you are speaking a different language to the person who is sitting across from you. Even though I had been friends with this person for over twenty years, we knew each other as well as I knew anyone outside of my family, I could not get through to him. People like John can, though. Because they understand what he is feeling inside and how to take those feelings and turn them into something productive to turn around his life.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160322e.html
