Public Statements
Governor Christie: I Will Continue To Say No To Higher Taxes Every Day I Am Governor
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 15, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie:
You know, when the unemployment rate is bad, it is not coincidental, it is my fault. When the unemployment rate is good, I get questions from jokers like you asking if it is coincidental. When we are lower than the national rate and we are lower than every state in the region, I do not think that that is coincidental. I think it is due, in part, to the policies that this government has put forward and I think it is due, in part, to the hard work of the employers in this state who have stuck with us and done a great job in expanding employment and it is due, in part, to the people of this state who have a higher labor force participation rate than almost any other state in the region. Which means that they have not been discouraged to be out looking for jobs.
They are still out there hard looking for jobs. All throughout this time. So this is not coincidental at all. And I would say it is not coincidental at all to take a look at the fact that of two states in the region that have clearly gone in opposite directions during the time I have been governor. Connecticut, which has raised taxes over, and over, and over again. And New Jersey, which has said no to tax increases. Connecticut is now a full point higher than New Jersey's unemployment. They have lost General Electric, they have lost other major companies because they continue to raise taxes. I want to predict to the people of New Jersey, since Claude is so concerned about my last twenty-one months, I want to start predicting to you now that if you go back to a Democratic governor, whether it be the Mayor of Jersey City or some other Democrat. They are already telling you what they are going to do. They are going to raise taxes on the people of New Jersey. It is coming. They are going to raise all kinds of taxes on the people of this state and you are going to wind up being in the same position that a Connecticut is in.
So I do not believe that is coincidental at all. But I also do not believe that I create these jobs or that the government creates the jobs. These guys at HelloFresh create the jobs. What we do for them is to create an atmosphere under which it is profitable for them to expand. And they told me flat out in the meeting we just had that if we did not have the incentive program we had, they would have left to another state. They mentioned Pennsylvania for one, New York for another. So we are competing every day regionally and us saying no to higher taxes, which I will continue to say no to for every day that I am governor, for us continuing to streamline our incentive programs to make them more user-friendly and more economically advantageous for entrepreneurs like the folks here. Those are not coincidental things. You go up to the people in Connecticut- go ask Jeff Immelt of GE whether it is a coincidence that he is moving to Massachusetts. That he is leaving a state with a high taxing Democratic governor and going to a state with a tax cutting Republican governor. I do not think there is any coincidence at all.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160315c.html
