Public Statements
Governor Christie Seeks SBA Disaster Declaration for Four Counties Impacted By Winter Storm Jonas
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Feb. 18, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie announced today that he is requesting the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) make a physical disaster declaration applicable to Atlantic, Cape May, Cumberland, and Ocean Counties under the provisions of Section 7 of the Small Business Act as a result of Winter Storm Jonas, which began on January 22 and ended on January 24, 2016. Last week, the Governor requested a Major Disaster Declaration under the federal Stafford Act for seventeen New Jersey counties impacted by Winter Storm Jonas.
"Although I also have requested a Presidential Declaration of a Major Disaster under the Stafford Act for this event, unfortunately the damage sustained did not meet the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) criteria for Individual Assistance," said Governor Christie. "Based on the information I have reviewed, I am requesting that the SBA issue a physical disaster declaration making low interest loans available to those citizens and business owners in Atlantic, Cape May, Cumberland, and Ocean Counties adversely affected by the severe winter storm that struck the State from January 22-24, 2016."
Preliminary Damage Assessments conducted after the storm, indicate that Atlantic County meets SBA criteria for the Disaster Loan Program, and Cape May, Cumberland and Ocean would also qualify for assistance as contiguous counties.
Through the SBA Disaster Loan Program, eligible homeowners can borrow up to $40,000 to repair or replace contents damaged during the storm. In addition, eligible homeowners can borrow up to $200,000 to repair or replace their primary residence to its pre-disaster condition. For businesses, a business of any size can borrow up to $2 million to address physical damage and small businesses (as defined by SBA) can borrow up to $2 million to address economic injury.
Winter Storm Jonas brought blizzard conditions and record snowfall of up to 30 inches of snow to New Jersey. Dangerously high winds combined with dense snowfall caused hazardous travel conditions, fallen trees, and approximately 270,000 power outages in affected counties. A near-full moon on January 22 created high tides across the State, including record high tidal cycles from Friday evening into Saturday morning in at least two locations. These high tides, along with strong offshore winds of 60 miles per hour, contributed to a storm surge that caused coastal flooding in areas of southern New Jersey. The cumulative effects from the storm and coastal flooding caused beach erosion and severely damaged or destroyed dunes, dune grass, crossovers, and bulkheads.
For more information about federal disaster recovery programs visit http://www.disasterassistance.gov/
Declaration Process: https://www.fema.gov/declaration-process

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160218a.html
