Public Statements
Gov. Christie: Unlike Washington DC, We've Gone For Hard Solutions And A Better Deal For New Jersey
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 12, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie:
Instead of accepting the cynicism and the mediocrity of inaction here in New Jersey, we've shown what it means to achieve policies of consequence, policies of principle and yes, policies of compromise. Instead of hiding from our problems or pretending they don't exist, we've confronted them openly. More often than not, we've done it together, as Republicans and Democrats. Now we don't agree on everything, newsflash, but we don't have to - as long as we keep talking to each other and trying to do the right thing. Instead of slick soundbites, we've governed through hard conversations. I've certainly had plenty of them with many of you in this room. And I intend to have more today. But those conversations haven't always won me friends, but it was never about that. The only thing I've ever tried to win is a better deal for the people of New Jersey. Now instead of going for the quick fixes or the easy solutions, we've gone for hard solutions and a long term revolution in the way we run our state. See this is what it means to be the Governor; it's what it means to be a real leader. It's the difference between talking a big game and attacking problems head-on and being responsible for achieving the results and solutions. No matter how unpopular - the test is simple - is it right for New Jersey. In the way we teach our children. In the way we care for the most vulnerable members of our society. In the way we keep our streets safe, in the way we build better neighborhoods and in the way we grow stronger businesses.
...
Now in Washington, that's not true. All we're going to hear tonight about the big challenges that we face today as a nation is a lot of hot air from not only from Congress but from the White House as well. The state of the union will not be a call to action tonight, it'll be a fantasy wish list by a President who's failed us. It's the world as he wishes it was; not the real world his failed leadership has left to all Americans. Now for the last six years, we've done it differently in New Jersey. A lot of people in this room, a lot of people have shown the courage to set aside partisan differences and achieve real progress. So to all those who have chosen to reach out across the aisle - thank you. Thank you for everything you've done for our state.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160112h.html
