Public Statements
Governor Christie Takes Action On Pending Legislation
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 11, 2016
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today took action on legislation, including a bill aimed at helping inmates who were victims of domestic violence and a second bill designed to help non-violent drug offenders reclaim their lives by streamlining the process for expungement of their criminal records.
The Governor suggested minor changes to strengthen Senate Bill No. 995, which seeks to help domestic violence victims who have been convicted of crimes against their abusers by establishing a community reentry program to assist victim-offenders assimilate into society upon release from custody and prevent further victimization.
Governor Christie conditionally vetoed the bill, proposing that the program be established solely in the Department of Corrections.
"The goal of this bill is commendable and I sincerely support its objective," Governor Christie said. "Domestic violence is tragic, and victims deserve support and counseling. However, the bill conflates the statutory and regulatory responsibilities of the Department of Corrections and the State Parole Board, combining the agencies' separate residential program functions. Accordingly, I suggest minor amendments, in accordance with the intent of the legislation to establish this program within the Department of Corrections, consistent with its existing reintegration programming and tailored to the specific needs of this limited inmate population."
The bill as written also called for an automatic early release program for this specific subset of inmates upon successful completion of the reentry program, an element of the bill that Governor Christie does not support.
"I cannot support the creation of early release programs because they would begin to chisel away at the long-standing function of the State Parole Board," Governor Christie said. "For decades, the State Parole Board has faithfully fulfilled its charge to carefully review and consider the underlying facts and circumstances of each applicant for parole. While I continue to encourage the Legislature to explore reforms that will create efficiencies in State government, I remain grounded in my belief that the review of parole applications is best accomplished through the reasoned, compassionate, experienced and individualized judgment of the State Parole Board and not through an automatic process based upon one factor."
Governor Christie similarly took action to strengthen the Assembly Committee Substitute for Assembly Bills Nos. 206, 471, 1663, 2879, 3060 and 3108, and urged quick approval from the Legislature.
The bill proposes to allow those who have successfully completed the Drug Court program to expunge the related criminal charges, and it further aims to make the expungement process more efficient.
Seeking to balance the needs of non-violent ex-offenders with public safety, Governor Christie conditionally vetoed the bill, retaining the current waiting period for expungements for indictable offenses, currently 10 years, or five years if a court determines that expungement is in the public's interest.
"While I support breaking down barriers to employment and education for non-violent ex-offenders, I cannot endorse a bill that compromises public safety," Governor Christie said. "As written, this bill would cut in half the presumptive waiting period to expunge indictable offenses, often felonies, from ten years to five years, and eliminate an important safeguard which allows a judge to consider whether granting an expungement is in the public's interest. The current public interest exception to the presumptive waiting period is an effective and efficient way to help ex-offenders combat the collateral consequences of their offense, while also ensuring that public safety is not compromised."
Governor Christie further suggested retaining the five-year waiting period for disorderly persons offenses, while adopting the bill's provision to lower this waiting period to three years, if a court determines that expungement is in the public interest.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552016/approved/20160111a.html
