Public Statements
Issue Position: Foreign Policy
Issue Position
By: Chris Christie
Date: Dec. 18, 2015
Location: Unknown

America's Role In The World

A Stronger National Defense.
Keeping our military strong must be at the heart of any global agenda. A strong military doesn't just help us to deal with the threats we face. It helps eliminate them before we even see them. We need to give our men and women in uniform the resources they need to get the job done. As President, Governor Christie will repeal the sequestration cuts and restore funding levels to what Secretary Gates proposed with modest increases in defense spending through the end of the decade.
We also need to build a new generation of weapon systems to protect our interests on every front -- on the ground, on the seas, in the air or new frontiers even further out. We need to invest in unmanned aviation, directed energy weapons and space while continuing to be leaders in undersea warfare. When it comes to cyber warfare, we need to be ready not just to defend against threats, we need the offensive capabilities to deter our enemies -- or strike back when necessary.

Strong, Reliable Intelligence.
Governor Christie has seen up close just how important the intelligence community is to defending our way of life. As U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey, his office focused on fighting terrorism every day. When it comes to preparing for the threats over the horizon, strength and knowledge go hand in hand.
It is disgraceful the way there are folks in Washington who want American intelligence weaker and less informed just to drive their own personal political agendas. Protecting our homeland must be an uncompromising priority. We need to toughen our anti-terror and surveillance laws to give our intelligence services the legal mechanisms to do their job.

We need to invest in new technologies and infrastructure to support our signals intelligence, so that we can actually interpret all the data we're gathering. At the same time, we need to strengthen our human intelligence capabilities in the parts of the world where they're weakest. We can also do more to strengthen our cooperation and intelligence sharing with our neighbors, as well as our allies in Europe.

Stand With Our Allies And Stand Up To Our Adversaries.
It's not just our strength and intelligence that defines us as a country; it's our willingness to stand with those who share our values and interests. We became the leader of the free world because we also chose to become the arsenal of democracy. And when we make a commitment to stand with our allies, our word is our bond. Or at least it used to be. Right now, we have a government that doesn't seem to care about all the blood and sweat and treasure that it took to build those alliances. Because we've broken our word.

Whoever is going to be our next Commander-in-Chief is going to make restoring America's word a priority. We need to make it clear to our friends and allies that we stand with them in the cause of freedom, and against all the gathering threats.

Source: https://www.chrischristie.com/issues#foreign-policy
