Public Statements
FOX "Hannity"- Transcript: Christie Interview
Interview
By: Chris Christie
Date: Nov. 11, 2015
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
HANNITY: Joining us now, 2016 presidential candidate, governor of the great state of New Jersey Chris Christie is with us. Governor, good to see you. Good night last night for you.
CHRISTIE: Thank you, Sean. It was a really good night. I enjoyed myself in Milwaukee. And now I'm back in Iowa getting ready for another town hall meeting.
HANNITY: Bobby Jindal was baiting you a lot last night. Let me play a little bit of it. You weren't going to have any part of it, which was interesting to me. Let's roll the tape.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. BOBBY JINDAL, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Let's not a second liberal party. Let's actually cut government spending. Let's grow the American economy. Let's not just beat Hillary. Let's elect a conservative to the White House, not just any Republican.
CHRISTIE: I'll tell you, it's interesting, if you go the New Jersey, they'll call me lots of different things. A liberal is not one of them.
(LAUGHTER)
CHRISTIE: And I'll say this. I have great respect for Bobby's record in Louisiana. I think he's been a wonderful governor and I think he's provided outstanding leadership in that state, and I respect him for what he's done. And I think that all of us deserve that same level of respect.
JINDAL: We need a conservative, not a big government Republican.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Last word briefly.
CHRISTIE: Let me just say this. It's interesting, I complimented bobby. Imagine how much time he'd want if I actually criticized him.
(LAUGHTER)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: You weren't going to have any part of that. And I felt that that must have been a strategy going in because they gave you every opportunity to battle him. Tell me what was going on.
CHRISTIE: Sean, listen, I'm not running against Bobby Jindal. I'm running against Hillary Rodham Clinton. And I want a party to remain focused and keep our eye on the prize. There's no silver medals in all this, no silver medals at all. We want to win the White House back and that's what I'm aiming to do. And so you don't allow yourself to get distracted by other things. Keep yourself focused on the prize. That's what I did last night.
HANNITY: There were three big issues emerging from last night's debate -- immigration, differences in terms of economic plans, and certainly America's role in the world. Let me start with immigration. Where do you stand on the issue? Everybody seems to agree, secure the borders, secure the borders first. I would like to see that happen. What do you do after that?
CHRISTIE: E-Verify, Sean, is a the enormous thing not only to secure the border but also to deal with the problems we have here, and a biometrics system on visas to make sure that people do not overstay their visas. And 40 percent of the folks who are here illegally overstayed their visas. I think you work on both of those programs and you deal with the large bulk of the problem that we have in the United States already.
HANNITY: And the 11 million?
CHRISTIE: That's how you deal with the 11 million, Sean. If those folks can't get jobs, they're not staying. That's the bottom line. And that's why you e-Verify and you make the penalty for any employer who employs someone who is here illegally twice the amount of money they made off of that employee. That would get business' attention and get them to be part of the solution rather than part of the problem.
HANNITY: Did you agree with Trump when he said, you know what, the Russians just had an airliner shot out of the sky, and if Putin wants to take out ISIS let them do it. We shouldn't have to do it all of the time. What is your reaction to that?
CHRISTIE: My reaction is that's naive. And Vladimir Putin has no interest in dealing with ISIS at all. And he's there to prop up Assad, Sean. That's the only reason he's there. That's when he's brought the Iranians and the Cubans into the fight to support Assad and keep this murderous dictator in place. Putin's never had any interest in ISIS and he doesn't have any interest in ISIS now.
HANNITY: We have some differences on economic policy. You seem to be the one candidate that wants to remind everybody that the federal government has stolen from every citizen. There's no lockbox. And so, but the big question is how do you jump-start an economy, stop this record debt and deficit accumulation that we have, and get those Americans in poverty on food stamps back to work and those out of the labor force jobs?
CHRISTIE: Economic growth, Sean. And this president's not interested in economic growth nor is Hillary Clinton. They're interested in income redistribution. And so that's why my tax plan gets rid of every loophole and deduction except for the mortgage interest deduction and the charitable contribution deduction. It lowers rate to at or below the Reagan level from the mid-1980s where we saw extraordinary economic growth with those rates under President Reagan. We can replicate that again. Under my plan we will. And we will get rid of a whole bunch of IRS agents on top of it as I said last night.
So it's time to get our economy growing again and get the absolute burden of regulation off the backs and out of the pockets of small businesspeople with regulations like Dodd-Frank and Obamacare and the EPA and OSHA. We need to curb that back. I got rid of one-third of the regulations in my first year as governor that my predecessor put in place. I'll bring the same focus to regulatory reform as president. Those two things combined along with changes in our corporate tax system and repatriation of the money from overseas will get our economy growing at four percent or greater. If we do that, we're going to really be helping the American people at every income level.
HANNITY: Would you move to get America energy independent and how long do you think it would be?
CHRISTIE: Absolutely right. And we are on the verge of it, Sean. I absolutely would. We have to drill for more oil. We have to explore for more natural gas. We've got a 100-years supply underneath this country and we need to get it.
And the other thing we need to do is to partner with our neighbors in Canada and Mexico, not cancel the Keystone pipeline like this radical liberal environmentalist Barack Obama has done and Hillary Clinton agrees with.
And we need to work with Mexico who is now denationalizing their energy industry so we can invest in it. We will have North America be the energy continent in a Christie presidency. That will allow us to be energy independent, drive down costs, create manufacturing jobs, Sean, and also allow us to be stronger around the world and not have Europe depending upon Putin for energy.
HANNITY: All right, governor, I see a lot of people are waiting for you. We appreciate your time. Thanks for being with us.
CHRISTIE: Sean, thanks for having me tonight. I look forward to seeing you soon.
HANNITY: You bet.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/transcript/2015/11/11/ted-cruz-anti-amnesty-candidate-can-win-general-election/
