Public Statements
Governor Christie To Vanessa: You're The Face Of Hope For This Disease
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 24, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: I'm here most particularly this morning not only because Essex County is where I grew up and I'll always have a special affection for this place but also because the face of hope is graduating today. I first met Vanessa Vitolo I'm sure she would not believe that I was going to grab her and cajole her into being on TV commercials and drag her down to the White House to tell her story to the President of the United States. But I asked and she said yes. And for so many people around this state, this fight, this battle, this cause, has a face and it's hers because, as the President said to her in the White House, I'm looking at you with your beautiful face and I can't believe this happened to you. That's why I brought her. I want the President to see all of those faces, every different shape and color, every different ethnicity and race, every different gender and religion so that he and the rest of this country understands that this disease does not discriminate. It doesn't matter whether you're rich or poor, whether you're black or white, or Hispanic. It doesn't matter whether you live in Newark or in Livingston. It doesn't matter whether your parents have a PhD or an MD or whether your parents are working at the local gas station. These drugs don't care who they take. And so Vanessa is now graduating today and I absolutely believe that, as she said to me when I visited her for the first time, that the work that we're doing is helping to save lives. I believe that her willingness to step forward and be the face of hope for this disease will save many more lives than I will ever save. All of you today, I ask of you the graduates only one thing in return for the gift that drug court has given you. And that is this, help someone else who has been where you have been.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170524b.html
