Public Statements
Governor Christie Takes Action On Pending Legislation
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Nov. 9, 2015
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today took action on legislation, including a package of five bills intended to address the fiscal stability of Atlantic City.
Understanding both the immediate and long-term obstacles facing Atlantic City and its stabilization, the Governor has consistently highlighted the need for comprehensive reform efforts to confront the city's challenges -- both from State and local leaders. The Governor remains committed to bringing about the necessary reforms to stabilize Atlantic City and continue an effective long-term transition to an economy that is diversified beyond its traditional gaming industry.
Continuing in that effort, Governor Christie conditionally vetoed A-3981, establishing a payment-in-lieu-of-taxes (PILOT) program for casinos operating in the City, A-3984, reallocating revenue derived from the casino investment alternative tax from the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority to the City to pay debt service on municipal bonds, and A-3985, repealing the Atlantic City Alliance.
"While I commend the Legislature for attempting to devise measures to stabilize the City's budget and finances, I am concerned that the bills, in their present form, fail to recognize the true path to economic revitalization and fiscal stability in the City," Governor Christie said. "While these bills represent the bipartisan efforts of many to provide important, near-term support to the City's immediate challenges, I do not believe they meet the goal of setting a course toward renewed, long-term prosperity and economic growth. To achieve these goals, we must continue our work and go further to ensure that the next step leads to that economically vibrant future for Atlantic City."
In addition, the Governor signed A- 3983, authorizing supplemental school aid to the Atlantic City school district, and vetoed the fifth bill, A-3982, which would add a costly and unjustified new mandate for casino business operation in the City by requiring each casino, as a condition of licensure, to provide to its full time employees "suitable" health care benefits and "suitable" retirement benefits.
"A-3982 would do nothing to enhance the financial condition of Atlantic City," Governor Christie wrote. "To be sure, this bill would make it more costly for casinos to operate in Atlantic City, thereby impeding the industry's ability to grow and expand."

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20151109c.html
