Public Statements
Gov. Christie: I've Taken An Oath Of Office, Not An Oath Of Party
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

"I remember, you know, hearing about politics in New Jersey when I was a prosecutor, and they used to complain all the time, oh geez, you know, there's no bipartisanship in New Jersey. The two parties are at each other's throat all the time. They never get anything done together. They're always looking to get one up on each other, so I took that to heart. When I came to office I decided, you know, I better find a way to work with Democrats and make sure that those Democrats know that I'm willing to work with them. Then, when you work with Democrats, the press wanted to know, what's going on? Why are they working together? There must be some backroom ugly deal that's going on that they actually work with each other. You know, it used to bother me in the beginning when I heard that, but I've now come to the very safe and secure conclusion, which I believe is a bipartisan conclusion. I'm never going to make those people happy anyway, so who gives a damn? The people that I'm intent on making happy, the people that I'm intent on giving an opportunity for a better life to, are the residents of this city. They have waited far too long and had far too many false starts and empty promises, yet now we've seen over the last five years that each of those three elements I mentioned, public safety, public education, and private investment, are now all happening in this city, and it would not happen but for the fact that political leaders in this state have decided to drop their R's and their D's and instead put forward their NJ's. We care more about our state than we care about our party. I've often said to people that twice now I've taken an oath of office, not an oath of party, an oath of office, and that oath of office says that I'll do everything that I can, not only to support the laws of this state but to make this state a better place for the people who live here, who play by the rules, who pay the taxes and just expect us to do our jobs. The Mayor is a great example of someone who believes in the same thing, and so I am thrilled to be here today. I am happy to check another box on the accomplishments we wanted to make here in Camden, and I know that all of you are happy about it too. I am a little concerned that I'm at a podium next to a tank full of sharks. I've already agreed to this deal. There was no reason to be intimidating. I'm already in, all in, no problem. But I am really glad to be here also, not only next to those sharks but amongst a group of real friends who believe that progress is more important for the people of this city than anything else, so Dana, thank you for having me today and I appreciate being here."

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150924b.html
