Public Statements
Governor Christie Takes Action to Support Garden State's Family Farms
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Aug. 7, 2015
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Christie has signed A-535, legislation that restores driving privileges for 16-year-old permit holders of a New Jersey agricultural driver's license, allowing these teens to operate farm equipment and vehicles on their family farms without adult supervision.
"Agriculture strengthens a way of life for farming families in our communities, provides access to Jersey Fresh produce and other agricultural products while maintaining our rural landscapes," said Governor Christie. "By signing this legislation, we are providing an exemption that will ensure our robust agricultural industry -- and the tradition of family farming that gets passed down through generations -- remains strong now and in the future."
Under New Jersey's current graduated driver license program, privileges are phased in for drivers under the age of 21. New drivers between the age of 16 and 17 are subject to six months of supervised driving under a learner's permit followed by one year of restricted driving under a probationary license.
This legislation resolves the issue by allowing drivers who are at least 16 years old to obtain an agricultural driver's license once an approved six-hour behind-the-wheel driver training course has been successfully completed.
An agricultural driver's license limits the holder to operating a registered farm vehicle for farm-related purposes and also requires each licensed driver to display special learner's permit decals on their farm vehicle. A holder of an agricultural driver's license would not be subject to either the six months of supervised driving or the one year of restricted driving.
"Farming is very much a family business and often, in this economy, everyone needs to help," said Assemblyman John DiMaio, R-Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset. "These limited use driver's licenses allow younger family members to provide assistance that is vital to the farm's operations."

Source:
