Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces $3.85 Million Grant for Spring Lake's Wreck Pond Flood Hazard Control Project
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: July 23, 2015
Location: Trenton, NJ

Continuing efforts to protect vulnerable communities from the impacts of future storms, Governor Chris Christie announced today that Spring Lake will receive $3.85 million in federal funds for a flood hazard project that will control Wreck Pond water levels prior to impending storms.
Monmouth County's Spring Lake will receive funding from the Flood Hazard Risk Reduction and Resiliency Grant Program to fund a new flood gate and outfall culvert from Wreck Pond. The project will increase water storage, resulting in the reduction of flooding in neighborhoods surrounding the coastal lake during rain events, and limit the effects of storm surge. A berm and a living shoreline will also be created as part of the flood control project.
"During the past two and a half years, we have worked diligently to assist residents, businesses and communities at the Jersey Shore as they build back stronger and more resilient to withstand future storms," Governor Christie said. "Through this grant program, we are taking another step in our commitment to fund risk reduction projects that will protect lives, homes, businesses and infrastructure, a crucial element of our overall comprehensive storm-resiliency strategy."
The Flood Hazard Risk Reduction program is funded by a $50 million grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's Community Development Block Grant -- Disaster Recovery Program to help municipalities pay for critical storm resiliency projects.
In addition to Spring Lake, the communities of Atlantic City, Belmar, Little Ferry and Brigantine also have received funding for projects to reduce flood risks as part of the program.
"This project, like those in other communities hit hard by Superstorm Sandy, will help make New Jersey stronger and more resilient," Department of Environmental Protection Commissioner Bob Martin said. "Our goal continues to be to help protect residents, businesses and municipalities from the effects of catastrophic flooding, as well as to rebuild and harden infrastructure."
The Wreck Pond project also involves constructing a living shoreline and vegetated berm to an elevation of six feet above sea level that will extend along the northern shoreline of Wreck Pond in Spring Lake and Spring Lake Heights to near Route 71.
A vegetated berm will be constructed along segments of the North Branch of Wreck Pond Brook and a portion on the southern shoreline in Sea Girt that is currently lower than six feet. Approximately 37,000 cubic feet of dredge material will be removed west of the First Avenue bridge and will be reused in the construction of the living shoreline and berm. The raising of the berms along the lake will increase the water storage capacity of the lake during rainfall events and prevent flooding in surrounding neighborhoods.
This project complements $2 million in funding from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Foundation, which is also supplying funds to improve tidal flow into the lake to improve water quality, and to allow for the passage of migratory fish that spawn upstream.
"I know I speak for all of the residents of Spring Lake when I say how thrilled we are to be receiving this grant," Mayor Jennifer Naughton said. "The money will fund a plan that will allow us to achieve our dual goals of a significant reduction in flood risk and a cleaner, healthier pond habitat. This project has been years in the making and we are very grateful to the Governor's Office and the New Jersey DEP for selecting our application for funding."
Earlier this month, Atlantic City received $6.5 million for the second phase of a project to store stormwater during storm events, alleviate flooding on the western side of Atlantic City, and to improve evacuation and traffic flow during storm events, as part of the grant program.
Last month, Belmar received $6.2 million to construct a discharge piping system for Lake Como, which floods regularly during storms. Little Ferry received nearly $653,000 for upgrades for a tide gate and pump station. Brigantine received $1.4 million to construct three pump stations to protect roadways that are part of evacuation routes.
The DEP also is working with local and county governments on projects totaling more than $6 million to restore and enhance major coastal lakes that were damaged by Sandy, including Deal Lake and Wreck Pond in Monmouth County and Little Silver Lake and Twilight Lake in Ocean County. The DEP has already completed a variety of dredging, infrastructure repair and stabilization projects at Lake Fletcher, Lake Como, Lake Takanassee, Lake Wesley, Silver Lake and Sylvan Lake in Monmouth County. The Natural Resource Conservation Service within the U.S. Department of Agriculture has been a key funding and planning partner in many of these projects.
The HUD-funded Flood Hazard Risk Reduction Program complements the Administration's comprehensive Superstorm Sandy recovery and resiliency efforts, which include building a statewide network of engineered protection projects along the Jersey Shore, Blue Acres buyouts of flood-prone residential properties, financing for hardening of water and wastewater infrastructure, and home elevations in flood-prone areas.
The program focuses on reducing critical flooding risks posed by coastal lakes and inland waterways, enhancing storm water management systems, and incorporating both manmade flood barriers and nature-based solutions where appropriate.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150723a.html
