Public Statements
Gov. Christie: Our Paramount Concern Is Always Safety, Reliability For Our NJ TRANSIT Customers
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 23, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: Our paramount concern is always safety and reliability for our customers, and we know that forcing Amtrak to expedite its repairs to ensure that, will come with some unavoidable inconvenience, because of long-term neglect that Amtrak has given to those infrastructure systems. So, Amtrak is telling us now that the eight-week repair schedule that will begin in July and run to Labor Day weekend will necessitate limited service into Penn Station for the Morris and Essex service lines of the Midtown direct line, and that will cause obviously some significant delays. It will not affect all the other lines that Amtrak has or that NJTRANSIT has on the Amtrak tracks. But it will effect significantly the Morris and Essex lines that run the Midtown direct. We have made significant demands of Amtrak and have received the following concessions from Amtrak, as of last night. Amtrak must be transparent and provide NJTRANSIT with daily updates of the Penn Station repairs so that we can communicate them to customers. A new joint operations center will include Amtrak and NJTRANSIT to ensure real-time response and awareness to service changes and Penn Station customer messaging as the repairs are ongoing. NJTRANSIT will finally have access to perform field reviews of all of the ongoing repair work, no longer having to reply on Amtrak and their honesty for those updates. For three-quarters of the NJ Transit customers, travel patterns will not be modified in any way, including the Trenton to New York Northeast corridor line. So those will not be changed in anyway. Riders, as I said before, of the Midtown direct train on the Morris/Essex lines during the eight weeks of repair will be diverted to Hoboken to be able to access Midtown Manhattan. NJTRANSIT will release detailed information on all modified schedules to its customers in the first week of June, in time for customers to purchase their July passes. To further accommodate these customers, there is going to be enhanced bus service, ferry service and light rail options. Hoboken terminal ferry service and Path will accept and cross honor NJTRANSIT tickets and passes to New York during this time. So there will be no additional expense to the commuter to go on either Path or the ferry service from Hoboken to Midtown Manhattan. In my view, though, that was not enough. So I have ordered fares for all Morris and Essex line Midtown direct customers to be reduced by between 56 percent and 63 percent for the period of time that these repairs are ongoing. To give you just one example, if you're a customer who buys a monthly ticket from Gladstone and take that to Midtown Manhattan, right now you pay $451. During the 2 months of these repairs, you'll pay $168 for that ticket and pay nothing for your service on our Path or on the ferry to get to Midtown Manhattan. These fare reductions, in my view, are absolutely necessary to compensate for Amtrak's failings, and to give NJTRANSIT customers some financial relief in addition to the relief we are going to try to give them by also running more ferry service, more bus service, and obviously having access to the Path.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170523b.html
