Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces Departure of Three Long-Serving Cabinet Officials
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 22, 2015
Location: Trenton, NJ

Working to ensure state government continues to deliver results and reform for the people of New Jersey, Governor Christie today announced the departure of three long-serving cabinet members, along with new leaders for those posts. State Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, Health Commissioner Mary O'Dowd and Banking and Insurance Commissioner Ken Kobylowski will leave the administration over the next several weeks.
"I want to personally thank these three talented and dedicated individuals for their service to this administration and to the citizens of New Jersey," said Governor Christie. "Acting on some of the most challenging issues facing our state, each has responded with utmost professionalism in working on solutions that have balanced six state budgets and provided a framework for long-term pension reform; ensured that residents have the healthcare access they need through our health care delivery system; and protected consumers by calling for more accountability from insurers. The Garden State is a much better place because of their hard work and I wish Andrew, Mary and Ken all the best in their future endeavors."
In addition to the changes in these departments, the Governor also is announcing the formal nomination of Elizabeth Connolly as Commissioner of the Department of Human Services. Connolly became Acting Commissioner on February 28, 2015. She has worked in various roles at the department for 26 years and began her career in the department's Division of Family Development and worked in child welfare reform as Director of Data Analysis and Reporting in the Office of Children's Services. Connolly also served as Director of Research and Evaluation, Special Assistant to the Commissioner and led the department's Sandy recovery initiatives and emergency preparedness activities related to Ebola Virus Disease. Prior to her nomination as Commissioner, Connolly most recently was the department's Chief of Staff.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150622a.html
