Public Statements
Governor Christie: This Hate Is Born Out Of Racism
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 21, 2015
Location: Unknown

Good afternoon and thank you for welcoming me into your house this afternoon. I said to Reverend Carter when I sat down next to him that this type of hate is hard to understand. But if we're going to try to understand it we have to talk about it and we have to talk honestly about it. This hate didn't come from nowhere. This hate didn't just appear out of the sky. This hate comes from an awful place and this hate is born of racism. That's what it's born of. And we must say that out loud. As hard as it is at times for those of us who don't have those feelings in our heart, to understand where they could possibly come from, we need to talk about it out loud. We need to inform our brothers, our sisters, our neighbors, our coworkers, that this is not something that comes from some magical or mysterious place but it comes from an awful place. And these are things that we need to talk about if we're going to fight them. I hear too many people in the last couple of days acting as if they don't understand. The problem is we do understand. We understand that there are those among us, there are those among us who hate purely for the color of someone's skin. We understand there are people who hate because they don't feel God in their heart. We understand there are people who hate and that hate results in violence and the senseless loss of life that we saw this week. There's no one of us who can fix this problem by ourselves and that's why I was so glad that we began this service with an invocation where we were holding each other's hands because those hands are the hands that will do the work that needs to be done to end this type of hate. And those hands have to be from every walk of life. Those hands have to be from every neighborhood in our state and in our country. Those hands have to be of every different color that God has put on this earth. Those hands need to be hands that are informed not only with love but with strength because to get through this, we not only need love but we need strength. And so our prayers tonight, at least mine, are for two things. The first is for our love and our strength to inhabit the bodies of the families of these victims so that they can get through the unimaginable sorrow that they must have felt after that phone call was received, that their loved one was senselessly killed because of the way God made them. The other prayer is for our country, a country that seems in so many ways to have come so far to put out the fire of hate that comes from racism, but which once again this week showed us there's so much longer journey still to walk. We need to walk that journey together because today it happen at Mother Emanuel, but next week it can happen someplace else. Where hate resides in someone else's heart and so while I understand and appreciate the love and forgiveness that has already been shown by these victims and their families. I cannot comprehend, cannot comprehend how they put one foot in front the other today with the loss that they feel. The only way I believe they do it is through the strength of our prayers and the grace have an understanding a merciful God. I'm here tonight, I'm here tonight with all of you to let you know that I believe in my heart that the love and the faith and the strength of all the people of our state are in this building tonight. That each person, especially on a day like today, when we think about the grace that God has given us to have loving fathers and loving children that we understand the sense of loss that these families must feel today. So, let us pray for their strength and their faith, but let us also pray for the strength and the faith and the courage that we're going to need to speak out loud, to speak out loud that this type of racism in our country is long past due to be sent away. And that those people, those people who live with type of hate in their heart need to be called out. We need to shine a bright light on it. Because if we shine a bright light on it through our voices and through our hearts, that's the first step we'll be able to take in defeating it and making sure that those hands that we held today will be a chain of strength that will protect our children and our grandchildren, our brothers, our sisters, our mothers, our fathers, from the awful fate that these people befell this week at Mother Emanuel. Thank you for letting me come into your home.

Source:
