Public Statements
Governor Christie Signs Legislation to Bolster Efforts to Fight Drug Abuse and Addiction in New Jersey
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 29, 2015
Location: Trenton, NJ

Trenton, NJ -- Taking action to support New Jerseyans and their families faced with the disease of addiction, Governor Chris Christie today signed legislative measures to enhance the State's Project Medicine Drop program and to strengthen the Attorney General's law enforcement coordination efforts against opioid drug abuse.
"I'm proud of what we've done in New Jersey and proud of the work that we continue to do together to help people reclaim their lives. But we cannot become complacent," said Governor Christie. "Today, we are taking further action to keep our fight against drug abuse and addiction going strong. We're doing this by continuing successful programs like Project Medicine Drop to get unused prescriptions out of the medicine cabinet and into drop-off bins as well as fortifying our coordinated efforts against the scourge of opioid abuse in an effort to save more lives."
A-2859 advances the continuation of the Department of Law & Public Safety's (L&PS) existing Project Medicine Drop program. In addition, the bill provides for future expansion of the program at the funding discretion of the Department. Furthermore, L&PS is required to post on its website a list of all secure prescription medicine drop-off locations, including receptacles maintained by the Division of Consumer Affairs, as well as any receptacle located in New Jersey that is approved by the federal Drug Enforcement Administration.
Project Medicine Drop, an initiative of L&PS' Division of Consumer Affairs, provides residents with a safe and secure way to dispose of unneeded medications through "prescription drug drop boxes" located at law enforcement agencies usually comprised of police departments, sheriff's offices, and State Police barracks across the Garden State.
Currently, there are 126 Project Medicine Drop locations across the state with approximately 50 having mobile boxes for special off-site collection events. Since its creation in November 2011, New Jersey residents have dropped off approximately 53,924 pounds or nearly 27 tons of unused medications.
Primary sponsors of A-2859 include: Assemblymembers Eustace, Benson, Vainieri-Huttle Lagana, and Caride and Senators Whelan and Kean.
Governor Christie also signed S-2372, which gives the Attorney General the ability to coordinate statewide law enforcement efforts against opioid abuse in the Garden State. These coordination activities include the Division of Consumer Affairs and professional licensing boards in identifying, investigating, and prosecuting the illegal sources and distribution of prescription opioid drugs; taking appropriate steps to enhance the oversight by professional licensing boards; and providing training to law enforcement officials, physicians, and pharmacists.
Among activities already being coordinated is the implementation and training of NARCAN administration. To date, 496 law enforcement agencies have been trained in Narcan administration with 488 agencies currently carrying Narcan on patrol. Overall, nearly 900 overdoses have been reversed through successful naloxone deployment. Additionally, the state's Prescription Monitoring Program (NJPMP) continues to advance. As of April, 88.4% of the state's 29,400 licensed doctors had registered to use the NJPMP database.
Primary sponsors of the legislation include Senators Madden and Oroho and Assemblymembers Caride, Mosquera, Pinkin, and Moriarty.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150429b.html
