Public Statements
Governor Christie: Do You See A Money Tree?
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 23, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: Let me tell you, it reminds me of the story that my mother used to say to me all the time when I would go to her as kid to the store and I'd say, "Mom, can I have that?" And whatever it was she'd say to me, "Sure Chris, you can have that. Listen here's what you do. Go home, go in the backyard, pick the money off the money tree. Take the money and bring it to the store and you can buy it." And I'd say, "But Mom we don't have a money tree in the backyard." And she'd say, "That's right. We don't." See I knew we didn't have a money tree in the backyard so that ended the conversation. Here's the problem. You're the money tree. You're the money tree. See they can't print money like the federal government does. We can't borrow money from the Chinese like the federal government does. In New Jersey we've got to balance our budget every year. So they made this promise on Monday, it's a promise they wrote to the court and said enforce the law. So how are they going to pay for it? That's the next question. And let me guarantee you, they won't answer you. They won't answer you. They'll just say, "Well the Governor agreed to the law that we passed so he should pay it." I'm all for it. I'd love to pay it but the money didn't come in. So what are we supposed to do? You got to make choices. So, where's the money? Where's it going to come from? I fear that they are going to wait until after the election in November, because the whole Assembly is up for election in November, and then they're coming to the same money tree that they've come to every time. Every time. Cause there's only one money tree in New Jersey, everybody, and I'm looking at you. You are the money tree. And they want to make these promises, that are unrealistic in court documents to their friends in the public sector unions, who support them for election so they get reelected and they get all the money from the teacher's union and the other unions and then they're not going to them for the money. They're Robin Hood alright. They're going to take it from you and give it to them. And I'm okay with them getting their pensions. And I'm okay with them having health benefits but not platinum plus benefits anymore because we can't afford them and the Obama administration says you shouldn't be giving them anymore. And I'm not for making what is the second highest taxed state in America the highest taxed state in America.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150423a.html
