Public Statements
Boy Scout To Governor Christie: When I Grow Up I Want To Be A Bodyguard
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 16, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: Young man, what is your name?
Boy Scout: My name is Charlie Tartaglia.
Governor Christie: Alright Charlie what do you got for me?
Boy Scout Charlie Tartaglia: How many bodyguards do you have?
Governor Christie: How many bodyguards do I have? Alright. After my conversation with that guy, I'm upping it. I don't know. However many we have, we're increasing it. How many do we have here today? Let's see if I can figure out all of them. One. Two. Three. Well I'm not telling you which ones they are but a subtle hint would be the guys with the wires in their ears. I think I have like six here. I count about six here. They spotted you Stan, they outed you baby. They're pointing to you. About six. Now there is, how many do we have in the EPU total? Okay so there's 30 men and women who work for me, are members of the State Police and they're members of what's called the Executive Protection Unit. They take care of protecting me. They protect the Lieutenant Governor and they're with me 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. So not all 30 of them. Usually I have three with me when I travel. So anywhere I go around the state there's a guy driving me and there's two other guys or women who are driving in the car behind me. And then when I go home at night, they're at my house. They don't come inside the house. They're outside the house and they're watching things so they're with me all the time. If I want to go to my son's hockey game, they come with me. I'll go this weekend to my daughter's lacrosse game. They'll be with me. I want to go to the dry cleaners to pick up my shirts, they come with me. I want to go to the bank to get some money, they come with me. I go to take a shower, they don't come with me. So those are kind of the rules. If I'm in the shower they leave me alone. Every place else they're kind of free game to go. So that's how many bodyguards I have and they're all state troopers. They're all really great men and women and they work really hard for me and they keep me safe and my family is really happy that they do that. Anything else?
Boy Scout Charlie Tartaglia You know why I asked that question is because when I grow up I want to be a bodyguard.
Governor Christie: You do? Alright. Well my friend, Al, you see that guy behind you? Turn around. Not the guy in the uniform, next to him. That's Al. He's really old. He'll get ready to retire any time now so you talk to Al and see whether you can replace him. They do a great job for me and like all of the men and women in the State Police do a really great job for us in this state helping to keep us safe. As do the gentleman standing next to you, the police officers that work in your town, the sheriff's officers that work in your county, they all do a really good job. But those guys that I talked to you about, those 30, are the ones who have the special job of having to protect me every day and sometimes that job is a little harder than others. So thank you very much for asking and good luck.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150416f.html
