Public Statements
Girl Scout to Gov. Christie: What Would You Change About D.C.?
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 7, 2015
Location: Unknown

Question: Hi, my name is Natasha Allen. I'm from Girl Scout Troop 397.
Governor Christie: And where is Girl Scout Troop 397 from?
Natasha Allen: We're from the coast of New Jersey.
Governor Christie: Okay, good.
Natasha Allen: And these are my sisters right there, Brianna and Skyler. So, my question is if you do run for president what would you change about the way things are going in Washington, D.C. today?
Governor Christie: Well how about this, how about this, how about if we start off with the fact that people don't talk to each other anymore. See what we're doing here today. People who agree, people who don't agree, we're talking to each other. I got some great advice from an old boss of mine. When I was U.S. Attorney, that's the chief federal prosecutor in the state for seven years from 2002 to 2009. And I had a boss, the Deputy Attorney General of the United States for a period time, who is actually now the director of the FBI, his name is Jim Comey. Jim's a great guy and one time he came to visit me in the office, when I was U.S. Attorney and he was my boss and he met a bunch of people who worked for us and then we met alone together and I said to him, "Jim where are you going after this?" And he said "I'm going to the New York Times Editorial Board." Now Jim worked for John Ashcroft who was Attorney General at the time and for President Bush. And let's just said that in general they weren't the favorite people at the New York Times. And so I looked at him and said "Jim are you crazy? You're going to the New York Times Editorial Board, I mean that's not going to be pleasant." He said, "No, no Chris you don't get it." He said, "I'm going there because it's much harder to hate up close." I think in Washington what's happened is everybody goes to their separate corners. They don't talk to each other anymore, they don't deal with each other anymore on a regular basis. They don't get to know each other. And so then if you have differences of opinion it's much harder to hate if you don't know the person. And so I think one of the things that has to change in Washington, whether I run for president or I don't, is that the president and the Congress has to work with each other more and has to get to know each better cause it's harder to hate up close and that applies to anything, right, whether it's politics, whether it's your friends at school. You know when a new kid comes to school and you don't know them and let's say they are different. It's a lot easier for people when you don't know them and they look a little bit different than you for you to make fun of that person, for that person to get teased. But once you get to know that person a little bit, they sit with you at lunch, they tell you about their brothers or sisters, their mom and dad, the house that they live in, the things they like to do after school, the sports they like to play, the books they like to read, all of a sudden they aren't nearly as different as they used to be. They have so many of the same things that you have and as a result it's a lot harder to be mean. I think in Washington there's too much anger right now. Too much talking at each other rather than with each other. And listen, in this state, I've had to deal with a Democratic Legislature, a legislature of the other party the entire time that I've been Governor and we don't agree on a lot of different things but we got to work together and so I spend a lot of time with them. So I think the biggest thing -- I'm not going to bore you with my 10 point plan on whatever, because none of that matters until you start to develop the relationships you need to develop where people can trust each other. Because you're not going to work with each other until you trust each other. It doesn't mean you always agree, doesn't even mean you always like each other. You can trust someone who you don't particularly want to go out to dinner with but you can trust them because if they give you their word and they keep their word, they're trustworthy. So, I think of the all of things that I would change in Washington that would help to make the country be governed better, I think that'd be the first thing you'd have to work on. And that applies to every different human interaction we have with each other and that's what I would try to do if I were ever to do that but, that's a long way off but I'll just keep trying to do that here and if I get the chance to do it someplace else we'll see whether I'm successful at it or not. Thank you for your question that was really good.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150407d.html
