Public Statements
Governor Christie: It's Not About Blame, It's About A Solution
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: So listen, I'd love to be the Governor during a time when there's so much money coming in over the transom that I'd just saying yes to everybody. You want a new program? Yes, absolutely. You want more money for this? Sure, why not? I'd love to do that. That's not the time that I've gotten to be Governor. And I've got two and a half years left. Two and a half years left. Here's the good news for that, for those who didn't vote for me that's really good news and for those who did, the really good news about that is I'm never going to appear on the ballot in the state again so I don't have to worry about not telling you the complete truth. This is it. I want to fix this problem on my watch. I want to get it done. We started in 2011, we need to get it done now. If we do, we are giving an incredible gift to our children and grandchildren. If we don't, we are going to be the generation of New Jerseyans they blame for the destruction and perhaps the bankruptcy of this state. I don't want to be a part of that and I don't think most of you do either. And so that's why I'm talking about this stuff. That's why I'm doing town hall meetings every week between now and June because I want you all to understand what this problem is. This isn't about blaming anyone. This isn't about blaming the unions and their members. It's not about blaming the politicians of the past. It is what it is. It's already happened. There's nothing we can do to change it. Now we have to fix it. And guess what it's not just in my interest to do it, it's in the interest of those union members to do it too because if they don't -- there won't be a pension. There will not be a pension for them to have. And many of them have planned their entire retirement around it. It's not fair to them either but they've got to be part of the solution.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150324c.html
