Public Statements
Governor Christie: We Want To Get You Back In Your Home As Quickly As Possible
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 17, 2015
Location: Unknown

Boy Scout: HI Mr. Governor. My name is Zachary Seemar and I am 12 years old. I am 12 years old from Bricktown Troop 33. My family and I are victims of Super Storm Sandy and I have been living in a camper that we bought in place of what is left of our home for almost 2 and a half years now. I would like to ask you if you are aware of how difficult Bricktown's permits review process is for families like ours trying to rebuild and if there is anyone at the state level we can go to for assistance. It seems that there is no time consideration for the reviews process or fairness in the understanding of the increased restrictions at the time of application. Much of these requirements can be done during time at home inspections if that ever does come. I would just like to know why and who at the state level can help.
Governor Christie: That's a lot of pressure, you did very well. Yeah, let me say this. First off, we're happy to try to help and have helped a lot of folks with the permitting process in the individual towns. You know or may not know, but I'm certain that your family knows that in New Jersey it's very town by town centric. Each town wants to control their own zoning and make their own decisions in that regard and they get really kind of touchy when the state tries to get too involved in that but because of the extraordinary circumstances surrounding Sandy we've been able to have influence at least on some of these things. So we're happy to try to work with you and help you on that like we've helped a lot of other families in this circumstance. And I am aware of how long this permitting process has taken in a lot of places, in some places they're doing it really well and in some places they're not doing it as well as they need to. And so we want to get you back in your home and get you back there as quickly as you possibly can. So we'll work with you to try to help and work with your family. Does it have your address on there or do you just have the script from what you read? Alright, here's what we'll do. If you'll write down for me -- I'll give you my pen but you have to give it back -- if you write down for me your family's name and their address and their phone number and give it to me before I leave. When you're ready just wave to me and let me know you're done and I'll take that with me and I'll get somebody to get in touch with them tomorrow, ok? Can you do that for me? Alright, good. You take that. Thank you.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150317d.html
