Public Statements
Governor Christie: First And Foremost, Thank You
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 9, 2015
Location: Unknown

Thank you for coming. Isn't it the most pleasant day in the world out here? And I love the fact that Fair Lawn and the rest of this section of Bergen County came out today to express your views to me and to raise the concerns you have and to listen to what I have to say and what I'm concerned about. I thank the mayor and all the folks here in Fair Lawn for giving us this great place to host the event today. We're going to continue every week to be doing Town Hall meetings around the state to talk about these issues as we prepare to deal with the budget this year. It's really important it's part of my job, and quite frankly I really like it as you can tell because if I didn't I wouldn't be standing out here for two hours for sure. I could of come up with some excuse to leave right? Second, let me thank you for giving me this job. As I said in response to a question earlier I was born in this state, I was raised here and now I'm raising my children here. This is home, this is home for me and my family. My descendants immigrated to this state and came here in search of a better life and have kept us here for all this time. And I am thrilled to have the opportunity to be the governor of the state I was born and raised. You know it never misses my attention when I come into the State House every day. You know it used to be years ago when I first became governor, the state police essentially run your life. They drive you everywhere, they tell you where to go. I show up at places I just follow them, I don't even know where I'm going. It's like oh they're the guys, go follow them. And they used to bring me in the back door of the state house every day. And it's into the basement of the state house, and you walk through the basement and you go through these metal doors and another set of metal doors, and you go up some really foul smelling stairs and then you get up and all of a sudden you're inside the governor's office. I guess it's the safest way to bring me in, but I really hated it. And so one day, I said to them I'd like to go in the front door today, to the guy who was driving me. Well you can only imagine the reaction: "He wants to go in the front door." And he looks at me and he goes, "Sir, why do you want to go in the front door?" and I said, "I just want to go in the front door today." "He really wants to go in the front door." And it stirred everybody up and they brought me in the front door. I walked in the front door, and if you've ever walked in the front door of the state house in Trenton -- and if you've never been there you should come and see it, it's the second oldest continuously operating state house in America, there's a lot of history there -- and you walk through the front door and you walk by the Treasurer's office and the Lieutenant Governor's office and then you walk into the amazing rotunda in that building. There's some incredible history there and portraits of our first governors in that area and then you walk through and then all of a sudden to the right, as you go through the rotunda there's a glass door that says Chris Christie, Governor and that's the door I walk in. And I walk in that door because I never want to forget, never want to take for granted how lucky I am that you've given me this opportunity twice, twice to be the governor of the state where I was born and raised. You know, my mom was the product of a single mother, who grew up really poor in the city of Newark with my grandmother struggling to get by and raise three children. My father worked in the Breyers Ice Cream plant when he came back from the Army in Newark and put himself through college at night for six years at Rutgers in Newark to be the first person in our family to ever get a college degree. One generation, one generation removed from them, their son is the governor of New Jersey, it's an amazing place. You've given me an incredible opportunity. So I try, I try every day to redeemer everyday how lucky I am to have this chance even when some of the days aren't so great and some of them aren't but overall every day is really special and days like this are really special because I get to interact with the people, as that gentleman reminded me, that I work for everyday and it's you. So I've got two and a half more years or so in this job and then you get to pick someone else but I feel tremendously privileged to have had the opportunity to do this and that's why I'll continue to do these town hall meetings. Because I love coming out and meeting the people I work for. And think about, when you're leaving today, think about all the amazing stories you heard today from you fellow citizens. Think about it. And think about if that was your job, that part of your job was to go and hear all these amazing stories and different points of view and people who agree with you and people who don't agree with you. Everybody from people who are caring and concerned about their own families and wanting to make sure that their families and other families like them are taken care of. And then other folks who are starting great new organizations that are now going to become statewide organizations, apparently. And that's the other thing that I'll end with that's great about this job, is kids ask me -- we get fourth graders who come to the statehouse seemingly every day because we learn about New Jersey in the fourth grade. So, many of them make trips to the statehouse during that fourth grade year. And I see lots of them. And they always ask me the same two questions, there are others, but the same two questions: What's your favorite color? They all want to know that for whatever reason. And the second questions they always ask me is what's the best part of being governor? And I always tell them that the best part of being governor is that I wake up every morning and I have a job where I have a chance every day to do something great. I don't do something great every day, I'm human, I don't. But, every morning I wake and I have a chance to do something great. That's a pretty amazing job. And you all gave it to me. So, thanks for giving it to me. Thanks for giving me your time today. We'll see you again soon.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150309a.html
