Public Statements
Governor Christie: Insuring 55% Of NJ, Horizon Should Not Be Able To Operate In The Dark
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 21, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: The legislation would add four more members of the board, public members of the board, two appointed by the Senate President directly, two appointed by the Assembly Speaker directly. That means that there will be four gubernatorial appointments and four legislative appointments and it would bring the board back to an eleven-to-eight balance. Still, more members appointed by the chairman than by the public but it would make it a much closer a much closer vote on those things and would bring four new sets of eyes to the board to question things and to challenge and demand answers where right now the overwhelming majority of that board is appointed by the Chairman and they're under his thumb. No question about that. On transparency, we're talking about a number of different things that would now have to be put publicly on the website compensation that's being paid, response times, things that the public has a right to know since they're paying for so much of what goes on at Horizon, they have a right to know these things. And if you try to get some of that information now from Horizon, its elaborative if the public can never get to it, some of it absolutely would held. And you can see right now they had a Supreme Court case yesterday, where they were arguing that they should not have to reveal in the OMNIA plan why certain hospitals were designated as Tier 1 and others were designated this Tier 2. They say, this nonprofit public insurer is saying we don't have to tell the public why your hospital is a Tier 1 hospital, which is in the network and you get lower co-pays but Charlie's hospital is a Tier 2 hospital and he's going to have to pay higher co-pays if he goes to the hospital closest to him. And folks are saying well we want the rationale as to why. They were arguing for the New Jersey Supreme Court in the last day or two they shouldn't have to reveal that information. And so these actions of greater transparency and greater independent governance I think will lead to a better operation there and certainly an operation that's more responsive to the public that provides them with 55 percent of all health insurance in New Jersey is written by Horizon and over 50 percent of our Medicaid population is handled by Horizon. They should not be able to operate in the dark.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170621b.html
