Public Statements
Christie Lays Out $33.8B Budget; Speech Focuses on Pension Reform
News Article
By: Chris Christie
Date: Feb. 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Pitching what he said could become a "national model," Governor Christie used his budget speech Tuesday to speak almost exclusively about pension reform, returning to the issue that won him national acclaim and one that sets up fights with unions and Democrats that control the Legislature.
The governor's reforms -- a sweeping package of pension freezes, new union-controlled benefit plans and health care changes -- would need approval from lawmakers and from voters who would be asked to rewrite the state constitution. And it is unclear how long the changes would take to enact, how much taxpayers would save and what it would ultimately mean for the more than 400,000 active public workers -- including teachers, police, firefighters, and state and local employees -- earning pensions and benefits.
"I am here today to ask you to do what may be politically difficult, but what is morally the right thing to do," Christie said. "This is the type of leadership our state requires."
Christie's team began the morning with a 15-second social-media video publicizing the address and touting his plan as having the backing of the New Jersey Education Association, the powerful union that spent millions against him and opposed initial pension changes he signed into law in 2011. By Tuesday afternoon, the union's leaders blasted the announcement of a partnership, calling it "embellished" and "overstated," and saying enacting such reforms would be a lengthy and complex process.
"There is not a deal, let's be clear upfront about that," NJEA President Wendell Steinhauer said. "Think of this as being a skeleton, but there's no meat on the bone yet. So we have to do some work on that."
Democrats were skeptical of Christie's pension proposals and were quick to point out that this address on the proposed $33.8 billion budget did not include long-term funding plans for the Transportation Trust Fund, which finances road and bridge repairs but doesn't have the funds for new projects. Other public employee unions scoffed at the suggestion that they should agree to further pension changes, when Christie has failed to live up to a promise he made to phase in large increases in the state's contributions.
Selling plan to public
Christie, who is considering a presidential bid, will begin selling his budget and pension proposal at a town hall event in Burlington County this afternoon, and he's expected to reference his work to overhaul pensions when he speaks alongside other presidential hopefuls at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Maryland on Thursday.
He made a point Tuesday of saying that pension obligations are not just a New Jersey issue, but are a struggle for many other states.
"In state after state, pension, health care costs and debt service are crushing the ability of states to finance schools, colleges, new technology and new infrastructure," Christie said. "I will not willingly sit by and let this continue."
The proposed spending plan holds the line on municipal and school aid and phases in the final year of a corporate business-tax program the governor has championed. The budget calls for a $74 million cut in charity care to hospitals that treat the uninsured, saying an increase in insurance enrollment through President Obama's federal marketplace initiative has helped shrink those costs. The governor wants to add $27 million for graduate medical education, some of which could go to the proposed school backed by Seton Hall and Hackensack University Medical Center.
Christie also sets aside $2 million for the Opportunity Scholarship Act pilot program, which would give students in "failing" schools vouchers to attend schools elsewhere, an effort he has pushed. He also is proposing $2.3 million in new funding for a single-point-of-entry addiction treatment program he announced in his State of the State address last month.
The spending plan for the fiscal year beginning July 1 calls for a $1.3 billion pension contribution, far less than the nearly $3 billion payment he should be making under a 2010 agreement.
Christie's announcement of another partial contribution came one day after Superior Court Judge Mary C. Jacobson ruled he could not slash the payment for this fiscal year by nearly $1.6 billion because of the 2011 pension overhaul law he signed, which she ruled guaranteed the contributions. Jacobson ordered the governor to work with lawmakers to come up with a solution. The governor has pledged to appeal, and the state treasurer said the ruling would have no impact on the budget Christie introduced Tuesday.
Unions see it differently
"No matter how many backroom meetings transpire, there won't be a solution until we address the problem by putting the legally required money into the pension," said Hetty Rosenstein, New Jersey state director of the Communications Workers of America, the largest state employee union.
Patrick Colligan, president of the state Policemen's Benevolent Association, said his union would support looking into taking control of its members' pensions, but it opposes any freeze in benefits.
"If the governor were truly interested in strengthening the pension funds, he would have made his lawful contributions to them and would cease his PR campaign to force the public to hold us as objects of contempt," he said.
Christie's address to a joint session of the Legislature on Tuesday highlighted what he said are pension fund contributions that total more than any other New Jersey governor's. Christie's plan to spend $1.3 billion on pensions would bring his total contributions to $4.2 billion, which he said is the most in state history.
In an oblique reference to Monday's court ruling on the 2015 pension payment, Christie said: "The numbers do not lie, and let me tell you this: We don't need any court to tell us we have a serious problem. I have stood behind this podium for five years speaking candidly about this problem."
Christie slashed the 2015 payment from $2.25 billion to $681 million citing revenue shortfalls.
Funding for the pension payment for 2016 is expected to come through a 3.8 percent increase in revenues and making "difficult choices" -- cuts -- elsewhere in the budget, Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said.
Sidamon-Eristoff called that revenue projection "reasonable."
There was no information on how much Christie's proposed pension overhaul with the NJEA would save the state or cost local taxpayers. Union leaders said those are details that need to be worked out.
Is 'road map' firm?
Steinhauer acknowledged that the NJEA signed a joint memo with the governor's pension commission that establishes a "road map" for addressing long-term pension and health benefit concerns. But he said that document doesn't represent a final agreement.
"If you pull out your map and make a road map, does that make a deal, or are you just trying to get somewhere?" he said. "We're trying to get somewhere and where we're trying to get to is to a pension that is not in question every four or five years as to how the funding is going to happen."
Democrats in the Legislature seized on that difference between the association and the governor.
Assembly Speaker Vincent Prieto, D-Secaucus, said there were "clear missed signals."
"Apparently, he has a deal on a road map; I have no idea what that means," he said of the governor's proposal.
Republicans backed Christie and said the NJEA was wrong to say there was no substantive agreement.
"When adversaries have this concept, I'll call it a memo of understanding, that's a pretty good start. I think the tough dealing is whether you can reduce the cost of health benefits. If you do that, the deal's done," said Assemblyman John Bramnick, R-Union.
Benefits plan
Public employee benefits need to be overhauled in New Jersey to reduce the strain on government and to ensure beneficiaries are not further shortchanged in the future, a special task force appointed by Governor Christie said Tuesday.
The recommendations include a freeze in the pension system, sharp reductions in health benefits and a requirement that towns and school boards help the state pay down a massive debt in the retiree systems. Christie endorsed the plan in his budget speech.
Unions, however, were mixed. So, too, were the Democrats who control the Legislature and must sign off on the measures.

Source: http://www.northjersey.com/news/christie-lays-out-33-8b-budget-speech-focuses-on-pension-reform-1.1276917
