Public Statements
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie Visits Drug Treatment Center in U.K.
News Article
By: Chris Christie
Date: Feb. 3, 2015
Location: London, United Kingdom

By Heather Haddon
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and Duchess of Cambridge Kate Middleton have found common cause in a social issues they care about: drug treatment.
On Tuesday, his third day of a U.K. visit, Mr. Christie toured Hope House, a residential addiction-recovery facility in South West London. The Duchess has helped financially support Action on Addiction, an organization that provides funding for the 22-bed facility for women.
Stateside, Mr. Christie has made drug treatment one of his main social-welfare programs. The Republican has connected his antiabortion stance with the need to value the lives of all people, including the drug-addicted.
"When I talk to folks in my party about home about being pro-life, I said it's easy to be pro-life when you are in the womb," Mr. Christie said to Hope House staff and executives. "If you are pro-life, tell me that you're pro-life for a kid who is lying on a jail floor basement, addicted to drugs."
He referred to addiction as a disease, nodding while listening to staffers talk about the need to lower the stigma many drug addicts face.
Mr. Christie's mother, a lifelong smoker who died from lung cancer, didn't encounter the negative reactions that people undergoing drug treatment often do, he said.
"No one saw her lying in that hospital bed when she was dying and said, look, she got what she deserved," said Mr. Christie, who often speaks about the influence his mother had on his life. "Why do we feel differently for someone who falls victim to drug or alcohol abuse?"
The visit perhaps offered a welcome change for Mr. Christie, following reactions to comments he made Monday on taking a "balanced approach" to vaccinations for children.
Asked about an outbreak of measles in the U.S. and whether the government should require vaccinations, he said he understood parents who felt concerns about immunizations. The father of four said he vaccinated all four of his children.
A spokesman for the governor later issued a clarification of Mr. Christie's comments, saying that the governor supports mandatory vaccinations for measles, but that state rules on immunizations vary and therefore the government's approach should show flexibility.
Mr. Christie didn't take press questions after he spent about half an hour meeting with Hope House workers and residents.
Before the visit, he held a private meeting with executives of financial companies that are members of TheCity UK, a trade group that lobbies parliament on financial services and seeks to lower trade barriers.
Afterward, Mr. Christie had lunch with Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, one of the highest-ranking members of Prime Minister David Cameron's cabinet, but didn't make formal remarks as previously scheduled.
"We had a lot of fun," Mr. Christie said in response to a question about the lunch.

Source: http://blogs.wsj.com/metropolis/2015/02/03/new-jersey-gov-chris-christie-visits-drug-treatment-center-in-u-k/
