Public Statements
Governor Christie on Edgewater: We Will Continue To Be Here
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 22, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: So let me start by thanking the County Executive and the Mayor and all the people who worked for them, many of whom I've gotten to meet inside. They've responded extraordinarily well to a really, really awful circumstance. Mary Pat and I were watching this as it was going on last night. At that time I called members of the Cabinet and the State Police to make sure that we were engaged. We were and have been and will continue to be. We're helping to staff the community center there with the county employees and the municipal employees to make sure that people's needs are addressed. The Commissioner Of Banking and Insurance is in there, the Commissioner of Community Affairs, the head of the Motor Vehicle Commission, are all there trying make this transition as comfortable as we can for the residents of the state. I also want to thank the folks at Avalon, who are helping as well -- appreciate them being there and providing an opportunity for people to be housed and also to help them bridge during this difficult time. I came up here just to let folks know that the state is completely engaged, I've been engaged since all this started last night and will continue to be here at the highest level to make sure that we're addressing the needs of the folks who have been, really, awfully effected by this. I want to thank the emergency management folks in particular -- police and fire and OEM, who did an extraordinary job. The fact that there was no loss of life here is really a blessing -- an enormous blessing. And we have to make sure that with the loss of property and the displacement is awful and difficult to deal with, we're not dealing with the loss of human life and that's really important. So, I pledge to the county executive and to the mayor to continue to be engaged and involved at every level no matter what they need. We'll continue to do that. As I said to them, unfortunately our administration over the last five years has had to deal with a lot of circumstances likes this. The one good part of that is that our cabinet is fairly well trained, making sure that we respond appropriately and effectively. So, I want to introduce the county executive for some remarks. He's going to introduce the mayor for some remarks, then we'll come back for just a few questions. So, County Exec.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552015/approved/20150122f.html
