Public Statements
CBS Interview - Transcript: I'm Not Breaking The Orange Sweater Karma
Interview
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 5, 2015
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Carton: One of the big side stories from the Dallas Cowboy win yesterday, 24-20, over the Lions was my main man celebrating as any Cowboy fan would if given the opportunity to celebrate in the box with Jerry Jones. And in the locker room. And on the way home. And he's on the line right now, the Governor of New Jersey, Governor Chris Christie. First, Happy New Year. Secondly, congratulations on your big Cowboy win.
Governor Christie: Well, thank you Craig. Boomer. Good morning, how are you?
Carton: Doing great. So, first and foremost let's get your take on it. Horrendous pick up of the flag on the noninterference call, correct?
Governor Christie: No, incorrect.
Boomer: Hey, hey Gov, what's the deal with the red sweater these days?
Governor Christie: First of all, the sweater is orange, first off.
Boomer: It looks red on TV.
Governor Christie: I know, I know, I've heard from everybody.
Boomer: What's with the orange sweater? I'm thinking pumpkin. What are we doing here?
Governor Christie: Look, here's the thing. The first Cowboys game I went to this year I wore the orange sweater. Just because that's what I picked to wear that evening. And as it turns out, you know, there are some people in my universe who believe that that has become a good luck thing. And --
Carton: Okay.
Governor Christie: I have worn it to every Cowboys game I have been to this year. That was my fifth one last night. And they've won all five.
Carton: So the orange sweater
Governor Christie: I'm not breaking karma.
Carton: The orange sweater is now a perfect 5-0 at Cowboy games.
Governor Christie: Perfect 5-0, yes.
Carton: And one of those games was the game against the Giants, right? At least one.
Governor Christie: Correct. Yup.
Carton: Of course, they're undefeated on the road. But don't tell me, as big a fan as you are, that that's a good non-call on the pass interference. Come on.
Governor Christie: Well, Craig, listen. You know, there were a lot of very interesting calls last night. I don't think that crew was a fabulous crew last night. I think there were a lot of bad calls that went on and what are you going to do? I think the game played out the way it played out. I think the better team won and we move on to Green Bay.
Carton: Now, there are those that feel that Jerry Jones, quote unquote, dissed you when you went in for the high five. He turned I guess maybe to his son or son-in-law, did the hug and then you guys did the group hug. At any point do you feel as though your high five was not embraced by Jerry Jones?
Governor Christie: It was pandemonium in there, Craig. It's difficult to describe the level of intensity in the Jones box during these games and so, no. Believe me, I'm sitting in Jerry Jones' box. How do I feel dissed exactly?
Boomer: I mean here's the thing I would say, you know, it looks like you've been there before.
Carton: Yeah, yeah, they have.
Boomer: They won Super Bowl titles in the "90s. You guys have been there.
Governor Christie: Boomer, it's been a long time, man. That's like saying the Mets have been there before.
Boomer: Listen, all I gotta tell you, Chris --
Governor Christie: Boomer, if I'm in Fred Wilpon's box and the Mets get into the playoffs or win a playoff game, I'm hugging everything in sight. I'm hugging the people serving us the drinks. I'm hugging everybody.
Boomer: All I know is this, Governor --
Carton: You gotta wear the orange sweater.
Boomer: All I care about is the Rangers right now and they're playing their asses off.
Governor Christie: That's true.
Boomer: I'll tell you what, don't wear the orange sweater to the Ranger game. I don't need to see you in an orange sweater to a Ranger game. Blue sweater is fine because "cause you know, we are the blue shirts, after all but --
Governor Christie: You know how passionate I am about the Rangers.
Boomer: Yes, I do know.
Governor Christie: Devils fans get angry with me. Flyers fans get angry with me.
Carton: Everybody gets angry with you.
Boomer: Just hugging Jerry Jones is just so, I don't know, creepy.
Governor Christie: Boomer, if you're not a Cowboys fan, I completely understand that.
Boomer: By the way, Chris, I'm not a fan of any particular team in the NFL even the teams that I play for. I'm a fan of people in the NFL. So, the one thing I will say this, I am fan of Tony Romo. And I was really, really happy for him at the end of the game, that he was able to pull it out late in the game. I felt bad for Matthew Stafford because you know, he had a couple fumbles there at the end. And your man DeMarcus Lawrence, I can't even imagine how he must have felt, cause I was just telling Craig, after he fumbles the ball that he picks up. Right? The next six or seven plays, however many plays there was, that guy was like shot out of a cannon and then fortunately enough for him, he gets the final sack and fumble to end the game so your Cowboys can win it. So, I'm sure it was craziness down there and everything else. But for Tony Romo, I was happy.
Governor Christie: Well, listen, I was incredibly happy for Tony Romo, also. He's a really good guy. And you know, he's taken a lot of abuse over the years. But, you know, the fact is, he's a very clutch player. He was incredibly clutch. He took a lot of physical abuse last night. They batted him around pretty badly.
Carton: Now, when Lawrence turns the ball back over and the Lions have a second shot at it, be honest. At that point are you saying, oh my God, here we go, we're gonna lose this?
Governor Christie: Oh, I was very worried at that point, yeah. I was worried then. I was worried when we got the interception at the beginning of the second half and didn't put any points on the board. So, there were a number of points in that game yesterday where I was beginning to think this may just not be our day. But, you know, fact is that the team hung in there. The defense played great in the second half. And they gave the offense an opportunity to win the game and the offense came back and won it at the end
Boomer: Let's look back to the big picture, here for a second, Mr. Governor. Do you think we can carry Texas now if we're running for President?
Governor Christie: Let's just say this Boomer, I think our chances have improved. It's funny though to watch all these people, you guys have known me for a long time and you know, I have been a Cowboys fan the whole time and when the Cowboys are losing the last game of the year, the last three seasons, not to make the playoffs, there's nobody getting on social media giving me a hard time about being a Cowboys fan. We all know what this is about and that's fine. It's great. Believe me, I will take all the abuse I'm taking from some of these folks in return for Cowboys playoff wins. As a fan, that's what it's all about.
Carton: You'll take a Super Bowl win.
Boomer: I'm not gonna see you put on a cubs hat any time soon.
Governor Christie: You are who you are as a fan. When i walk into the Prudential center in the playoffs couple years ago, Boomer, when the Devils are playing the Rangers and I have devils fans screaming and cursing at me because I'm a rangers fan. That's the way it goes. People are passionate.
Boomer: I know how you feel because I called out the islander fans for not selling out the building. I wasn't calling out the hard core fans. I was talking about the average fan that should go see the best team in hockey now. Boy did i catch hell. The good news is the islanders are finally selling out. They got a good team. Their fan base is energized. So i can understand your pain when it comes to stuff like this. People take their fandom extremely seriously.
Governor Christie: As do I. What I said to folks in Philadelphia is, I love passionate Eagles fans. That's great. I'm glad they're rooting hard for their team. Just because I'm governor of New Jersey doesn't mean I change who I root for.
Carton: That's what i said. I said who cares. He's a legit fan. Just happened to be in the owners box celebrating with them. The vision of you walking on a cloud of air into the cowboy locker room to celebrate. When you walk in the locker room, describe the scene for us? 'Cause no one else gets that chance. Who is the first person you see? Who got the Christie hug?
Governor Christie: First I walk in with Jerry. I turned around and the first person who grabs me was Dez Bryant.
Carton: Dez Bryant.
Governor Christie: Dez Bryant, yes.
Carton: Does he think you're one of the owners? Does he know who you are?
Governor Christie: Dez knows exactly who I am, yes. It's five games in a row here, Craig. The scene in the locker room was of just really, really unbridled joy by the players. They were exhausted. They were thrilled with the win. And everybody was very happy. Jason Garrett was, as I have seen him all through his career, just extraordinary with the players and had a great talk after the game. They're getting ready for Green Bay.
Boomer: I don't know how Jason Garrett does it. I don't. He comes off great in terms of all these press conferences, whether they win or lose, he doesn't change very much. I know yesterday he was happy and proud with the way his team performed in the fourth quarter. Couple other questions from me, Mr. Governor. First of all, you going to Lambeau this weekend?
Governor Christie: I hope to.
Boomer: Second thing is -- tell you what, the governor gets paid a lot of money to be able to do all these things.
Carton: Here we go.
Governor Christie: Boomer, easy now.
Boomer: Just want to make sure how all this stuff is going down. I don't know what's happening here. Want to make sure my Gov is clean.
Carton: You hate new jersey! All the sudden he's your governor?
Boomer: I don't hate new jersey. He's my buddy. By the way Rex Ryan sent me a text. He said he owns third base because there are things he can't do. He's a little better hitter than you.
Carton: He did say that.
Governor Christie: I understand. Rex and I are good friends. We can share third base. That's fine by me.
Carton: Depends where Rex winds up. I don't know if he will be flying in for boomer and carton softball games. You're like Headley of the Yankees. It's your game now to lose.
Boomer: Did you reach out to Rex after he got fired?
Governor Christie: Yes, sure, of course.
Boomer: I reached out to him as well. What do you say to a guy like that in that situation
Governor Christie: I said I'm proud of the job you did here. You're a great guy. Better days are ahead.
Carton: I wrote the same thing. He didn't respond. Fascinating.
Governor Christie: That's because he doesn't consider you a friend I guess.
Carton: I sent him a nice text wishing him well saying that the governor is now my full time third base man. If he comes back he'd have to dh. And i got nothing. Absolutely nothing in return.
Governor Christie: Woody fired him and you fired him on the same day. How do you expect him to react?
Carton: He's gonna wind up in Atlanta, he can't be on my softball team, and i'm giving you the job. Better get yourself ready.
Governor Christie: I'm ready. I'm ready to assume the duties. If my friend Rex comes back, I'm happy to share time with him. With Boomer running the team, he will be rotating players in and out of there like nobody's business anyway.
Boomer: Question I have for you going to Lambeau. Are you gonna hang out with Scott Walker or will it just be you and Jerry Jones?
Governor Christie: If I do go to Lambeau, of course Scott and I are friends and I'll see Scott.
Carton: He's friends with everybody. I want to be serious for one second as we talk to Governor Christie. There is this, as they laid to rest both New York City police officers after that heinous, what amounts to execution a few weeks back. Towers foundation stepped up. I know you're supportive of what those guys do. Their goal was to raise enough money to pay off the mortgages of both police officers homes. I'm very proud to say they did it. In less than a week they raised the $800,000 necessary to pay off the mortgages of both officers homes. I should also mention the George Steinbrenner fund --
Boomer: Silver Shield Foundation.
Carton: Which has been around 30 years. They've already agreed to pay all educational costs for the children of both officers. I know near and dear to your heart, Chris. Just to be serious for a minute if you want to pay homage to the officers and the towers foundation for doing what they did.
Governor Christie: First off, I said this immediately afterwards. All kinds of discussion about things surrounding these murders that are public policy type issues that people want and need to discuss. But I was urging, let's take a deep breath and think about these families. These are families that lost their husbands and their fathers right before Christmas. Who will be gone forever now. First to those families, we have them in our prayers every day. Because this will be a story that, unfortunately, given the way things work in our society, the story will fade away over time, but the loss for those families will never fade away. And to the charities who've done what they've done, this is the kind of thing you step up and do for heroes. Those police officers are heroes. Gave their lives in protecting New York City. And I'm so gratified that we have leaders of those charities who thought of something that needed to be done and went out and got it done, didn't just give it lip service but got it done. That's extraordinary but it's the least that can be done for families who will be without those people now for the rest of their lives. That's a loss that none of us can completely understand unless we've been through it.
Boomer: You have the opportunity to talk in front of a microphone every day. You get asked a million questions in regard to stuff like this. How careful are you with your rhetoric in situations like this? And how has the explosive political rhetoric exacerbated the problems for the police, not only here in New York City, but all across the country?
Governor Christie: I think you have an obligation as a public official to be very careful about this. This affects lives every day. The lives of people on the police force, no matter where you are in the country, and the lives of the people they're trying to protect. So you have to be very careful about it. I do think the rhetoric has been way overheated in a number of different areas. Fact is we need to be more thoughtful about this than reactive. That's what I try to do with my own comments about it. Having spent seven years in law enforcement as a prosecutor, I saw every day, the way federal agencies and local police officers put their lives on the line. You have to have great respect for that. And also great respect to the way you talk about it publicly as a public official if, as you say, Boomer, you do have a microphone available to you every day.
Boomer: Talking to Governor Christie of New Jersey. One more question in regards to this. Do you blame the NYPD and all those police officers that turned their back on the mayor?
Governor Christie: It's a very very emotional thing Boomer for all the folks who are involved. I absolutely believe that you need to have respect for the office that people hold. That's part of keeping our civil society together. But you can also understand the very emotional reaction from folks who believe that they weren't served correctly. This is a very tough one and one that I think, in the end, cooler heads have to prevail on both sides for people to understand and respect the roles that each play in making sure that we have a peaceful and civilized society. Which is what people want and expect from everybody who serves in government.
Carton: Well said. Over $1 million has been raised between the mayor's fund, that Mayor Bloomberg started after hurricane sandy and of course this great tunnels for tower foundation raised the money to pay off both officers homes. Plus the Silver Shield Foundation has declared to cover the education cost of the children wherever life takes them. Governor, always good talking to you. Good luck to your cowboys along the way and that orange sweater. Thanks for the time. Be well, okay?
Governor Christie: Boomer, why you laughing?
Boomer: No, no, no I just like the sweater.
Governor Christie: Let me ask you about the sweater. Am I to note that you, Boomer Esiason, as a player, never had any superstitions or as a fan, never had any superstitions?
Boomer: I do. When we get into the playoffs for the hockey teams, I'll put certain jerseys in the freezer.
Governor Christie: Right. And you're laughing at me? You're putting jerseys in the freezer and you're laughing at me. Great self-awareness.
Boomer: Gov, here's why I love you. I know when you play third base for us, you're all in, you're all out there and you don't care. Doesn't matter what it looks like. It was amazingly successful. Point being, don't you have handlers? Don't guys like you have handlers around you --
Carton: Who say don't wear that sweater?
Boomer: Yes, yes.
Carton: Apparently not.
Boomer: I want to see my man with a blue shirt and a red tie and i want him to look presidential.
Governor Christie: Boomer, I'm at a football game.
Boomer: I know.
Carton: You have to remember Boomer wears a jacket and tie talking about football the last 15 years. He doesn't know any better.
Governor Christie: Boomer, I have plenty of people who try to give me advice all the time. What I tell them is, if it has to do with my official duties, I'm happy to take your advice. I don't need advice on how to root for the Dallas Cowboys. I have been doing it for 43 years. The other thing people get upset about, we haven't had a heck of a lot of success for a long time as Cowboys fans, so what are they angry at me for? Is there nobody yelling at me when we're losing to the Giants in the last game of the season and miss the playoffs. Losing to the redskins in the last game of the playoffs. Nobody was yelling when Kyle Orton threw that awful interception last year to lose to the eagles at home to make the playoffs. I'm not listening to any of these people who give me a hard time now that we're having success.
Boomer: Shouldn't listen to me either.
Carton: Enjoy Green Bay. Talk to you next week.
Governor Christie: Good talking to you guys. See ya.
Carton: That's Governor Chris Christie of New Jersey.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20150105b.html
