Public Statements
Issue Position: Border Security and Immigration
Issue Position
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie supports securing the border and common-sense fixes to America's immigration system.
1.) Securing The Border:
Governor Christie has called for securing the border with Mexico through:
A border wall where appropriate, specifically in urbanized areas
An increase in manpower, specifically embedding FBI, DEA and ATF agents with our border patrol to interdict guns and drugs being smuggled into the country
Advanced technology such as the use of drones and electronic surveillance to increase efficiency
2.) Universal Workplace Enforcement:
Most who enter the country illegally come here to work. Employers should not be exploiting cheap illegal labor and should be held accountable when they do. Every employer in the country should be using e-verify to check the work status of employees.
Fines for hiring illegal workers should be double the profit a business has made from that worker. This will remove the incentive to hire illegal workers.
3.) Keep Track Of Those Who Are Overstaying Their Visas:
Around 40% of the illegal immigrants currently in the U.S. came into the country legally and simply overstayed their visas. We should be utilizing existing biometric technology to keep track of those who enter the country on a visa, so that that they can be returned home once their visas are expired.
4.) Eliminate Funding For Sanctuary Cities:
As president, Governor Christie will enforce all the laws as president, not just some. He will block federal funding for sanctuary cities who are choosing to ignore the law.
5.) Block President Obama's Illegal Executive Amnesty:
Governor Christie joined the legal fight against President Obama's Executive Amnesty, signing onto an amicus brief that successfully urged the Appeals Court to uphold the injunction.
Governor Christie condemned President Obama's Executive Actions and failure to secure border that have "allowed people to believe that they could come here under any circumstances not under the law and be able to stay here."

Source: https://www.chrischristie.com/issues#border-security-and-immigration
