Public Statements
Issue Position: Economy
Issue Position
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

1) PRO-GROWTH TAX REFORM
Governor Christie believes we need a tax system that lowers individual rates for every American while unleashing the nation's growth potential. Governor Christie will reform the tax code by creating a flatter, fairer and simpler individual income tax system and keep returns simple by reducing deductions and giveaways.

Governor Christie will also lower the Corporate Tax Rate to a more competitive 25% which S&P has suggested could help create as many as 10 million jobs, and allow companies a one-time opportunity to repatriate over two trillion dollars of profits currently sitting overseas at a much lower tax rate which would unleash a wave of new capital investment.

2) GETTING REGULATION UNDER CONTROL
This era in which the Obama administration tries to accomplish its ideological goals through the regulatory state must end. Regulation should be used to implement actions explicitly authorized by statute. Further, the next president should review every rule and executive order published under this administration during the transition, so that on day one, the most egregious and unlawful ones can be revoked.

We should restore the principle that for any new regulatory change proposed that the benefits outweigh the costs. We should also impose a "Regulatory Zero" rule in which for each new rule that is imposed, one of equal cost must be sunsetted or removed. Additionally, we should impose a hard cap on what it can cost for employers to complying with all federal regulation.

3) A NATIONAL ENERGY STRATEGY
As Governor Christie stated in Mexico last fall, we are in the midst of a North American Energy Renaissance. The U.S. and its friendly neighbors and close trading partners Canada and Mexico -- have a major opportunity to increase the competitiveness of our regional economy in the world, and to improve our strategic and security position at the same time.

The U.S needs to build the necessary infrastructure to get product to markets and ensure the smooth functioning of our energy markets, lift the ban on crude oil exports and allow markets to function as well as rationalize the country's approach to regulation to make sure it is fair. We can also ensure the U.S can maximize its energy resources in an environmentally sound manner by developing greater technological capabilities.

4) CREATING INCENTIVES TO WORK
The critical measure of success for any growth plan is people going to work at jobs worth doing. Today, though, there are too many federal policies which discourage work. America must reduce the marginal cost to the employee of taking a job, and reduce the federally-imposed cost to an employer of hiring someone.

Governor Christie proposes eliminating the payroll tax for those above age 62, as well as for those newly entering the workforce, below age 25. This will encourage those nearing retirement to keep working should they want to, and make it easier for the young to enter the workforce. Both will be good for America. He will also repeal Obamacare's 30-Hour Workweek mandate which has been a clear contributor to the massive shift from full time to part time employment under this president.

5) ENSURING THAT AMERICA IS THE HOME OF INNOVATION
America must remain the home of innovation in the world. This will require investing in research and development, focusing education on the needs of employers and increasing access to capital. In addition to investing in universities themselves through research, the U.S. must do a better job matching the skills students learn with the needs of employers.

America has for many years had the deepest, most liquid, most transparent capital markets in the world. Yet America is now losing its edge, in part due to the unintended consequences of regulation. Reform which makes it easier for young high growth companies to access the capital markets is essential. To further encourage private sector innovation, the R&D tax credit should be made permanent as part of broader tax reform.

Source: https://www.chrischristie.com/issues#economy
