Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie's Education Reform Agenda
Governor Christie Is Committed To Delivering A High Quality Education To Every Child While Expanding Access To Affordable Higher Education

NEW JERSEY REFORMS A MODEL FOR THE NATION
Since taking office, Governor Christie acted on his commitment to ensure that every child in New Jersey has access to a high-quality education regardless of their zip code. The sweeping changes he enacted can and should be a model for reform for the nation.

Reform Tenure To Remove Teachers Who Are Failing Students While Rewarding Good Teachers For Performance: Tenure for teachers should be awarded and retained based on performance. In New Jersey, Governor Christie signed into law a sweeping, bipartisan overhaul of the oldest tenure law in the nation. Also, for the first time in New Jersey history, a new contract for teachers in Newark allows them to earn raises and be eligible for additional bonuses based in part on student performance.
Promote College Readiness: Focusing specifically on students from low income families, college readiness programs can enroll these students in transitional courses before they graduate high school to better prepare them for college. In New Jersey's initial pilot of the College Readiness Now Program, 19 community colleges in partnership with over 60 high schools across the state successfully participated.
Provide School Choice For Those In Failing Districts: Students in struggling districts should have the option of attending a public school outside their district of residence without cost to their parents. Enrollment in New Jersey's Inter-District School Choice Program increased more than 5-fold since the program was signed into law in 2010.
Expand Access To Charter Schools: Another way to expand the education options available for children trapped in school districts with the largest achievement gaps is to encourage the best charter school operators. The Christie Administration has increased the overall number of charter schools in New Jersey to 87, serving 37,500 students.
MAKING HIGHER EDUCATION MORE ACCESSIBLE FOR ALL
Governor Christie firmly believes that by ensuring students know the quality of the program they are investing in, giving them the flexibility and innovative tools to get the job done, while expanding access to tuition assistance, America can ensure that every young person can affordably develop the skills they need to compete in the modern economy.

Affordability & Student Aid: Governor Christie proposes to refocus federal student assistance for those at the bottom while expanding alternative funding such as income-share agreements in which students could agree to pay some percentage of their future income for a defined period of time in exchange for private financing as well as tax credits to pay for programs that pay down student debt in exchange for community service.

Transparency & Accountability: Students should be able to see cost itemization for tuition, so they can know what they're really paying for. If colleges can break out those costs, they should also unbundle them -- allowing students, to just pay for the education and not all the add-ons. Greater transparency will also allow schools to analyze and compare their operating costs with other similar institutions.

Innovation And Alternative Education Models: America should strive to give students lots of different ways to learn, and shouldn't fear alternatives to traditional four-year public universities. "Stackable credentials' would allow students to re-enroll at different colleges over time without losing credits so students have the flexibility to jump in and out of education as needed. We should also expand apprenticeships and training programs while linking employers with education institutions to offer a variety of paths for individuals to develop the skills the labor force needs.

Source: https://admin.votesmart.org/candidateSpeech.do?candidateId=111064
