Public Statements
Issue Position: Entitlements
Issue Position
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie's Plan To Reform Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid
Governor Christie has laid out a comprehensive series of proposals to reform entitlement spending, ensuring that America's safety net will continue to exist for today's seniors and future generations, while at the same time helping to reduce the explosion of national debt and demand for higher taxes that unrestrained growth of these entitlement programs will create.

SOCIAL SECURITY
Ensuring Economic Security For Future Generations of Seniors
Social Security exists so America's seniors, after a lifetime of hard work, don't fall into poverty. Governor Christie is proposing that Americans pay into this system throughout the course of their life knowing it will be there if they need it to support them, but if they are fortunate enough not to need it, they will have paid into a system that will continue to help Americans who need it most. This proposal will not impact current retirees, and will be phased-in gradually.

MEDICARE
Protecting Health Benefits For Today's And Tomorrow's Seniors
Medicare spending growth is placing an inescapable burden on future generations and failing to produce high-quality health care results for our seniors. In order to make these programs fiscally solvent for future generations and improve the kind of health care services and treatment those utilizing these programs receive, Governor Christie proposes keeping it simple - if you can afford to pay more for your health benefits you will and if you can't, you won't. Governor Christie proposes expanding the existing sliding scale for Medicare premiums for higher-income seniors.

MEDICAID
Empowering States To Focus On Better Services For The Individual
Governor Christie proposes giving each state a set amount of Medicaid funds indexed to the number of enrollees in Medicaid. Under such an arrangement, Medicaid would continue to provide more funding for states and low-income individuals when the economy is doing poorly and unemployment increases. By implementing a per capita cap system, all states will have increased freedom to tailor Medicaid programs to their citizens in the best-suited manner for their state.

DISABILITY INSURANCE
Refocusing Assistance To Put People Back to Work
Reforming Disability Insurance (DI) is an urgent challenge. The DI trust fund will become insolvent next year. The best way to save this program and ensure it has the necessary resources to assist those who need it is by focusing on ways to help those beneficiaries who can keep working to return to the workforce and encouraging rehabilitation in lieu of permanent disability. We should require applicants to first work directly with employers and rehabilitation specialists to create a plan and explore alternatives and accommodations that can be made to address their specific needs in their current workplace. We should also offer tax incentives that encourage employers to invest in prevention, accommodation and rehabilitation services for their workers as well as to provide short-term private disability insurance.

Source: https://www.chrischristie.com/issues#entitlement-reform
