Public Statements
Governor Christie: Make Sure You Tell Bridget I Did What She Asked
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Dec. 17, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: When I was informed that you all were getting this award, what an extraordinary honor not only to be the Governor of a state where we had this many Blue Ribbon winners this year, but to have that happen right in the town where I live and see all of you, many of you, in lots of different places around town, I have to tell you than this morning my daughter Bridget, who is a middle school student, is very jealous that she can't be here with me this morning. She fortunately is at another Blue Ribbon School winner for this year at the Assumption School in Morristown and that's where she is this morning going to school, but she was going through the list to remind me this morning before she left to get on the school bus about all of her different friends that she plays soccer and basketball with that were all going to be here this morning and she wanted to make sure that I said hello to all of them. So I see a bunch of the girls right in front of me. Good morning. Hello. Make sure you tell Bridget that I did what I was told girls. It's really very, very gratifying for us as a community, because remember, we as a community, as the representatives who are here as well today sitting behind me, we also support you as a community and take pride in what you do. Whether you're a senior citizen who no longer has children in the school system and you live in Mendham Township, you love to see the accomplishment of all of you and you take some pride in ownership of being a supporter of it. Whether you're someone who, like Mary Pat and I when we first moved here, didn't have children yet, but know that you're coming to a community that offers you extraordinarily good public schools that if you are blessed with children someday you'll have a great place to send them, or whether you're parents like we are now who have made a different choice for our students--our children as students, but still believe so strongly in making sure that every child has the absolute best education they can have based on the choice that your parents want to make for you. All of us feel invested in and feel extraordinarily proud of you and what you do. And so I'm sorry that we weren't here the last time. I'm glad that we were able to get it rescheduled before you all go away on your holiday break to make sure we make this recognition in 2014, and on behalf of the people of the state of New Jersey you give us hope for the future. We hope that all of you will go on to be successful however you define success and that you'll have that success here at home, if not in Mendham Township, certainly in the state of New Jersey where we hope that you've had the kind of experience that would make you want to stay.

Source:
