Public Statements
Governor Christie: For Christmas, Pay It Forward
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Dec. 16, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: As we now sit a little more than a week away from Christmas, I want all of you to remember and understand how each one of you have people in your lives who love you and would consider you a special gift. Work hard not just for yourself but for those people as well, because I can guarantee you that your sobriety could be the greatest gift you give to anybody this Christmas. First it's the greatest gift you can give to yourself. The greatest gift you can give to yourself. And if you have a husband or a wife, or significant other, I can guarantee you that for that person, that can be the greatest gift you give to him or her. If you have a son or a daughter, guaranteed the greatest gift you can give to that son or daughter -- whether they're thirty years old or three months old -- is your sobriety. If you have a brother or a sister, I can guarantee you that's the greatest gift you can give them, too. And so as you get up to Christmas, just remember that when you wake up on Christmas morning and you're clean and you're sober, that is the gift. That is the gift that you've given to yourself. No one else has given it to you. You've earned it, you've given to yourself. And it's the gift that you've earned, that you can give to everybody else in your life. To see them that day or call them that morning, and say "I feel good. I'm clean. I'm working.' I can guarantee you that they will feel enormously, enormously happy when they hear that from you and they know it's real. They know it's not one of those lies that we tell, right? But it's the real deal. That will make them feel so good and that's the only gift they'll want, I can guarantee you. You can't wrap that and put it under a tree, but let me tell you it's a heck of a lot better. It's a heck of a lot better. It absolutely is.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20141216d.html
