Public Statements
Governor Christie Issues Canadian Utility Workers Appreciation Day Proclamation
By: Chris Christie
Date: Dec. 5, 2014
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today issued a proclamation declaring Friday, December 5, 2014 as Canadian Utility Workers Appreciation Day. When Superstorm Sandy made landfall in New Jersey, widespread loss of electricity accompanied severe damage and flooding across our state. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, nearly 10 million customers in the Northeast lost electric power. As a result, the North American utility industry, an estimated 67,000 employees total, engaged in an unprecedented mobilization of resources to assist in restoration. This included 800 workers from Canada who traveled to New Jersey to assist in the restoration of our utility services.
"Today we thank all of the Canadians who assisted in the recovery efforts following Sandy for their compassion, generosity and dedication," said Governor Chris Christie. "Superstorm Sandy was a time of crisis and uncertainty in our state and these crews worked to quickly provide our citizens with electric power and begin the recovery process. We appreciate your efforts as our neighbors in our time of need."
Calling them "true friends and neighbors" in remarks to the Calgary Chamber of Commerce delivered yesterday, Governor Christie also personally thanked these utility crews and companies who dispatched from Canada to help restore power and utility service to storm-devastated New Jerseyans across the state.
The 800 workers included linemen, forestry crews, mechanics, logistics supervisors and health and safety personnel. These individuals worked 12-to-16 hour days in difficult conditions and their efforts helped to restore utility services to the 2.7 million residents of New Jersey that lost power in the immediate aftermath of Superstorm Sandy.
Today as part of Canadian Utility Workers Appreciation Day, Governor Christie recognized the following companies for their efforts:
Entegrus Powerlines
Erie Thames Powerlines
Essex Powerlines
Hydro Ottawa
Toronto Hydro
Hydro One
Union Gas
Enbridge Gas Distribution
Gaz Métro
Canadian Gas Association
Electricity Distributors Association
Canadian Electricity Association

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20141205a.html
