Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces Multimillion Dollar Plan to Rehabilitate Camden High School
Press Release
By: Donald Norcross Chris Christie
Date: Dec. 2, 2014
Location: Trenton, NJ

As part of his ongoing commitment to meet the needs and best interests of Camden's students, Governor Chris Christie today announced a major multimillion dollar rehabilitation and renovation project at Camden High School. He was joined by New Jersey Schools Development Authority (SDA) CEO Charles McKenna, Camden Mayor Dana L. Redd and Camden Public Schools Superintendent Paymon Rouhanifard.
"Camden is a city full of promise and potential and so are its students," said Governor Christie. "The more than $50 million investment we are making to rehabilitate and renovate Camden High School is also an investment in the children of this city. The renovated facility will have a lasting imprint, educating a new generation of Camden students while ensuring they have a quality learning environment in which to thrive."
An Interagency Working Group, comprised of members from SDA, the NJ Department of Education and Camden Public Schools, have been meeting regularly to determine the best project for Camden High School. With today's announcement, a plan has been developed that will address Camden High School's facilities deficiencies. More than $50 million has been committed to rehabilitate the school, as well as provide additional features and enhancements that promise to address the programmatic needs necessary to guarantee a 21st Century education for the students of Camden High School.
"Our residents, along with past and present graduates, have a great admiration for this iconic building not to mention all that "The High' or the "Castle on the Hill' represents," Mayor Dana Redd said. "As many are aware, renovations to the building have been talked about for some time and with funding from the State now made available, it will address many critical and longstanding structural deficiencies. I am excited to stand with Governor Christie as we celebrate the history of Camden High and the bright future that lays ahead."
"Making sure that our students have a school that is safe and modern is the first step to ensuring their academic success," said Congressman Donald W. Norcross. "This $50 million investment will not only address the much-needed structural needs at Camden City High School, but it also demonstrates our ongoing commitment to the City of Camden and its residents by providing top rate classrooms where opportunities for success are achieved."
"Over the years, the SDA's commitment to Camden Public Schools has been significant," said SDA CEO Charles McKenna. "The SDA is pleased to support the Governor's announcement of another partnership with the City of Camden and the Camden Public Schools in order to fully rehabilitate, renovate, and transform Camden High School into a state-of-the-art facility."
The procurement process for this project is scheduled to begin in December, with the anticipated advertisement for design services issued in early 2015.
"Camden High School is a landmark in the community, and today marks a new beginning for the Camden High School students and community," said Camden Public Schools Superintendent Paymon Rouhanifard. "It is our hope that this project will restore Camden High School into a world-class high school campus and will help us as we continue to restructure our high school offerings and reinvest in our students to make sure they are ready and able to meet the needs of the 21st-century."
To date, the SDA has invested nearly $261 million in completed projects in Camden, including five new schools and 57 Health and Safety/Grants/Emergent Projects. The SDA's current portfolio of active projects is valued at approximately $2 billion -- including the Capital Project Portfolio (more than $1.5 billion), emergent projects ($100 million) and Regular Operating District grants ($450 million state share).

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20141202b.html
