Public Statements
Governor Christie: Thank You to athe UAE for Their Compassion and Generosity
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Nov. 10, 2014
Location: Unknown

First Lady Mary Pat Christie: Of what we're celebrating today, the UAE has real love of, can I say, football? So, anyway, that's what we're celebrating today. So in addition to that the Ambassador and the UAE have dedicated $500,000 for two fields to be constructed in Sandy devastated areas. So this in Atlantic County is really exciting. And it's not just building the field and leaving but it's really advocating for and planning for a whole program so that we can bring soccer to you children in this devastated area and really make a difference for the longer run in your lives.
Governor Christie: As a father of four, all of whom were involved in sports from the college level on down to intramural soccer for our 11 year old. I know how important these sports activities are to help our kids not only to learn much about comradery and teamwork about winning and about losing, all the things that happen to you in life as you get older are taught on fields like the one behind me and taught in a way that can make them all have a much much brighter and more active future. We're so fortunate to have the support from the UAE Embassy on behalf of their county and on behalf of all the people of New Jersey I want to thank the Ambassador and the UAE for their compassion, their generosity and their commitment to make New Jersey whole again. So it's great as I said to have Yousef here. He has been involved in this, not only as the government's representative here in the United States, but also as somebody who really cares deeply about the recovery that our state is going through and has been going through for the last two years. We've had any number of conversations over that period of time giving him updates, not only as a significant donor but also as somebody who really does care about the people of our state and our nation
Ambassador Yousef Al Otaiba: Two years ago this field was underwater. Today, this community is back and getting stronger every day. "Jersey Strong' as the Governor likes to say. So the great Sandy storm came and went, but the people of Atlantic City never wavered. They stayed and they fought with their community. This field is a symbol of that spirit. It shows the commitment of the neighborhood, of Pastor Days and the local officials -- of everyone in the Atlantic City Long Term Recovery Group all the way up to the Governor. And I hope the people of New Jersey see it as a symbol of friendship from your friends in the UAE.

Source:
