Public Statements
Governor Christie: We're Not Going To Leave Anybody Behind
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 29, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: Today is in part a celebration of what we've done that's gone very, very well. And a lot of people are restored to their homes. A lot of businesses are built back up and are able to serve their customers, make a living, put food on the table for their families. But when we celebrate this today it doesn't for a minute diminish our focus and our attention on those people who still need help. Now, I was in Biloxi, Mississippi a couple of months ago and I met with the Mayor of Biloxi. Biloxi is right on the Gulf of Mexico and when Katrina came in it was one of the most devastated cities on the Gulf. I asked him how long it took them to rebuild their housing. He told me eight years. Eight years to completely rebuild their housing and they didn't lose as many homes as we lost in Sandy. So, it's not going to take us eight years because we've learned a lot from that. But what it will do is make sure that we have perspective, that this is a long, long effort and we're not going to leave anybody behind. We're going to make that sure all those folks that need help and are eligible for help will get help. And whether it's folks we can buy their homes like we've done in the Blue Acres Program here in South River and in the neighboring towns, focused predominately on Middlesex County to make sure that those homeowners will once again not be hurt. Or whether it's rebuilding people into their homes, elevating their homes, we're going to continue to work very hard on that. So, I'm going to stop talking so Councilman Hutchinson can speak and then you all can get out of the rain and me, too. So, thank you. And please know that both me and Mary Pat think about all the folks affected by Sandy, every day. And her work with the Relief Fund and mine as Governor, every day, continues to be focused on making sure that we rebuild and recover completely from this storm.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7UGdkNeCrms&feature=youtu.be

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20141029g.html
