Public Statements
Governor Christie On Quarantine Protocol: Nothing Has Changed
Press Conference
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 27, 2014
Location: Unknown

-Question: If somebody lands in your state
Governor Christie: You're going to give me a hypothetical?
-Question: coming from Western Africa and they've been in the Ebola region, what will happen to them now?
Nothing different than what's happened before if they're just a traveler. They will get screened as normal and the CDC and the Department of Health will make decisions about what to do from there. The different policy that we laid out on Friday above and beyond what the federal government has required is that if you are a healthcare worker who has come in direct contact with someone who has the Ebola virus, you will be screened and be quarantined.
-Question: (inaudible)
Governor Christie: Excuse me. Let me finish the question because you guys always jump ahead and then you don't listen, so listen. Okay. If you are screened and you are asymptomatic, you can be allowed then to go to your home, travel to your home, whether it's in New Jersey, New York or someplace else in the country and be quarantined for 21 days there. If you are symptomatic, you will be quarantined in a hospital in New Jersey until we can find out whether you have the virus or not. As happened with this nurse from Maine, she was symptomatic. She had a fever. She was sent to University Hospital. CDC thought it was a serious enough situation that they ordered an Ebola test. The test came back. It was negative. We waited 24 hours until she had no further symptoms and today she's on her way home back to Maine where she will complete the 21 day quarantine in her home. That's the policy Governor Cuomo and I laid out on Friday. It's the policy that has been instituted since that time that dealt with the woman from Maine and will deal with anybody else who is a healthcare worker who has direct contact with someone who has the Ebola virus. There has been no change. No difference. That's the policy and that's the way it continues to be. And by the way, the state of Florida, the state of Illinois, the state of Maryland, the state of Virginia, all since we've shown leadership, have now adopted that plan.

Source:
