Public Statements
Governor Christie Creates Facing Addiction Task Force To Fight Drug Addiction Through Treatment And Prevention
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 9, 2014
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Christie today signed Executive Order No. 163 to create the Facing Addiction Task Force, a 12-member team of leaders and experts from inside and outside of government to fight drug addiction through treatment and prevention. This team will help move forward Governor Christie's efforts to treat addiction as a disease that affects people of all ages, races, and walks of life. Led by Pastor Joe A. Carter of The New Hope Baptist Church in Newark, the taskforce will help develop a strategy to destigmatize, prevent and treat the disease of addiction with a comprehensive and multi-faceted approach.
The Governor made the announcement following a tour and roundtable discussion with clients and staff of the Catholic Charities' Project Free program, which provides services for approximately 60 women and their dependent children, including substance abuse and mental health treatment, individual and group counseling, as well as day care services to support those treatment efforts.
"Those suffering with addiction are often ashamed of their disease, leading to isolation from their families, communities, and friends and the access to help they need to treat and overcome their disease. In this fight, we must not only improve the services available to help addicted individuals reclaim their lives, but it is just as important that we bring down the invisible barriers to seeking out treatment - ending the stigma and recognize it can affect anyone," said Governor Christie. "I'm bringing together this group of experts, leaders, and individuals with first-hand experience from inside and outside of government to build on our efforts, and give recommendations on where we can strengthen our treatment services, prevention efforts, and strategies to end the stigma on this issue."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20141009b.html
