Public Statements
Governor Christie: Sharing Information Saves Lives
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 7, 2014
Location: Unknown

We have a shared responsibility when it comes to the issue of the health and well being of our families. One of the ways they can and should assist our efforts is through the New Jersey's voluntary Prescription Monitoring Program, it's an innovative data-sharing partnership between the AG's Office and our state's prescribers and pharmacists. It is a vital resource that keeps detailed information on every prescription filled in New Jersey for medications classified as CDS (Controlled Dangerous Substances) including the names of the patient and prescriber, type, dosage and quantity of prescribed medication, date and pharmacy at which the prescription was filled, and payment method the patient used to obtain the drugs. Right now, through the end of October, more than 29,000 physicians and osteopaths are applying to the division for the annual renewal of their authority to prescribe CDS in the state. And for the first time, all doctors who submit their CDS renewal application are being automatically pre-registered for an NJPMP account if they do not already have access to this program. To date, 41% of New Jersey's 62,992 eligible prescribers and pharmacists are registered for access. And one of the things we discussed at the roundtable is that this is a voluntary program and my feeling is that 41% is good, in fact it's a lot better than when I first met with the Medical Society a few months ago when it was in the 20's. But it's still not good enough. Part of today is about encouraging our doctors and our pharmacists to step up and be part of this program that ultimately saves lives. And I also got some suggestions from some of the medical professionals in that meeting to make it even more effective. And we're going to be following up on those suggestions as well.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20141007b.html
