Public Statements
Governor Christie: Be A Face
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

You know for me you're looking at the people that we should be caring about, and they just represent millions and millions of other folks who are at different stages of all this and every day at different stages of it, different stages of acceptance, at different stages of guilt, at different stages of treatment, at different stages of recovery, and what I know is that if we're willing to invest the time and willing to invest the heart and the money that we need to do it that no one, none of God's creatures are beyond salvation and these folks right up here are extraordinary representatives of that. I'm so glad you're here. Thank you for coming.
First off I want to thank all of you for being here today. It is incredibly gratifying to know that all of the different faces that I see out here and I know many of the faces out here are willing to join us in the effort that we're making here to try to change the way we deal with these issues and the way we deal with each other, and I can't thank Pastor Joe enough for his willingness to be a big part of this. The fact is that there's no one of us who is going to be able to help to get the folks the help they need by ourselves. We all are going to have to work with each other to be able to do this, but what drives me to do it is two things. One is to know that what everyone said here today is absolutely true. It can and does happen to anyone. Not only can happen to anyone. It does happen to anyone. Can sounds speculative. It does, and all the different faces you've seen up here today whose lives have been affected by this directly or indirectly. It can and does happen to anyone. The second thing is that there are very few opportunities we have in life to make miracles happen. See, we think about miracles as faraway things sometimes that we read about. But I can tell you from my experience with this that when you get involved in dealing with folks who have this disease and helping to give them the tools to be able to deal with that disease and to save their own lives that that is God's miracle happening on Earth right before your very eyes, and there's nothing more important than that and there's nothing more gratifying than that and there's nothing more uplifting than that because every one of these lives, every one of these lives is an individual gift from God and has to be treated that way.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20141001a.html
