Public Statements
Governor Christie Celebrates Opening of Catrambone Elementary School
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 25, 2014
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today joined New Jersey Schools Development Authority (SDA) CEO Charles McKenna, Long Branch School District leaders and students to mark the opening of the George L. Catrambone Elementary School. The project is the first of the 2011 Capital Portfolio to be fully completed and opened under the Christie Administration, representing a new era of responsible, cost-effective and accountable school construction in New Jersey.
"When I took office and saw the past practices of the school construction program, it was imperative for us to take action with sweeping reforms at the SDA to ensure that the wasteful spending habits of previous administrations not be repeated," said Governor Christie. "This is the first school to both start construction and open to students during my Administration and I am proud to say that we delivered it on time, on budget and with a certificate of occupancy in hand."
The new George L. Catrambone Elementary School is designed to educate approximately 790 students in pre-kindergarten through fifth grades. The facility includes 41 general classrooms, four self-contained special education classrooms, eight small group instruction rooms, a cafetorium with stage, computer room, gymnasium, media center/library, art room and music room.
"The completion of this school represents all the best of what SDA does for communities. From the groundbreaking to the ribbon cutting, this project is representative of the complete reformation of the Schools Development Authority," said SDA CEO Charles B. McKenna.
The SDA has invested more than $267 million toward completed projects in Long Branch, including $40 million for the George L. Catrambone Elementary School. Terminal Construction Corp. of Wood Ridge, New Jersey was the general contractor, Becica Associates, LLC of Cherry Hill was the architect and GREYHAWK North America LLC of Moorestown was the construction manager.
The SDA's current portfolio of active projects is valued at more than $2 billion - including the Capital Project Portfolio (more than $1.5 billion), emergent projects ($100 million) and Regular Operating District grants ($450 million state share). SDA currently has twelve school facilities projects in active construction throughout the state.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20140925a.html
