Public Statements
Governors Cuomo And Christie Sign Bi-State Memorandum Of Understanding To Increase Security For New York And New Jersey
Press Release
By: Chris Christie Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 24, 2014
Location: Trenton, NJ

Amid new global responses to the threat of international terrorism, Governor Chris Christie and Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today adopted protocols under which New Jersey and New York will immediately begin coordinating intelligence-gathering and information-sharing to defend our residents and bi-state transit infrastructures against acts of terrorism. A Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Governors comes nine days after they held a top-level security meeting in New York with national, state and local law enforcement and security heads to begin mapping out an improved, coordinated anti-terrorism plan.

The bi-state agreement to substantially increase security at transportation hubs and critical infrastructure in the metropolitan area is effective immediately. Over the next 100 days, law enforcement and military personnel will join forces within the metropolitan area to engage in counterterrorism operations by increasing visibility, inspections and surveillance on and at trains and train stations, airports, landmarks, and bridges and tunnels. Additionally, New York and New Jersey will participate in a joint emergency exercise in the coming months and continue to evaluate methods for increased intelligence and emergency coordination.

The Governors said the MOU sets the path for delivery, within 30 days, of a classified analysis and coordination plan between New York and New Jersey, as they first announced on September 15 with the heads of NJ/NY State Police, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the States' Homeland Security Advisors, FBI, Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio.

"Global events this week bring the threat into acutely sharp focus," said Governor Christie. "We know that our people and assets remain a target in the minds of depraved individuals around the globe, even in the homeland, and we are gravely committed to protecting and defending ourselves against the threat."

"The New York City area has always been a top target for terrorists wishing to spread hatred and fear, and we would be in a state of denial to say that what is going on internationally has not raised that danger," Governor Cuomo said. "That is why New York and New Jersey are increasing our level of partnership and cooperation - because public safety is paramount and joining together is the best way to defend against any possible dangers. Our residents should rest assured that we are doing everything necessary to keep the region safe."

The MOU signed by the Governors addresses three primary areas of coordination: Enhanced intelligence gathering and information sharing; critical transit infrastructure protection; and reciprocal law enforcement powers between New Jersey and New York.

Among other things outlined in the MOU:
-The states, their respective intelligence fusion centers and Homeland Security directors will conduct an assessment of the tools, technological capabilities and any gaps that may exist to improve situational awareness and increase each state's ability to adapt and respond to real-time, actionable threat intelligence. They will expand their intelligence exchange programs and plan for a rotation of analysts between their respective fusion centers.
-Protections of critical transit infrastructure - Port Authority bridges, tunnels, ports and airports - will be increased through law enforcement deployment, visibility and security inspections (outlined below). The MOU requires immediate planning for the joint undertaking of tabletop and full-scale exercises.
-The State of New Jersey is under standing Executive Orders which permit law enforcement from the State of New York to operate in limited bi-state transportation contexts within the State of New Jersey. Immediately subsequent to the signing of this Memorandum of Understanding, the Governors of each state shall explore feasible expansions of these authorities, including reciprocity for New Jersey law enforcement to operate in New York in similar limited circumstances.
An increased presence uniformed National Guard, New York State Police, New Jersey State Police, Port Authority Police and various partner law enforcement agency officers will maximize public safety and provide a visible deterrent to criminal activity.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

The agreement also calls for New York and New Jersey to expand the operation safe guard program and commit more resources toward educating the public about "See Something Say Something."

Agencies participating in the bi-state security group include: the New Jersey State Police, the New Jersey Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness, New Jersey Transit, New Jersey State National Guard, the New York Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Services, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the New York State Police, the New York Police Department, Metropolitan Transportation Authority Police, the New York National Guard, and other law enforcement and public safety agencies. The multi-agency group is working in conjunction with the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Forces (JTTFs).

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20140924a.html
