Public Statements
Gov. Christie On Gov. McGreevey: We Don't Agree On Every Issue But We Agree On This
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 15, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: One of the reasons I agreed to come and talk about this today is because of him. Now the reason I say that is we need people who have had great accomplishments in their life, from both parties, being willing to work together with each other. And you know, all too often we set up a system in our political affairs where that becomes impossible, or if not impossible, frowned upon to the point where people become reluctant to do it. And I can tell you that from the time I've become Governor, I've reached out to him for advice and to urge him to get out more in public. Because even though we don't agree on every issue or nearly every issue - if we sat down and did a list of public policy issues, right? I mean it would be a relatively spartan list, right, that McGreevey and I agreed on. But what I will tell you is that has never stopped him from giving me advice. When you're in these jobs, the advice you can get from somebody who's actually sat in the chair is qualitatively different than the advice you can get from anybody else. I want him to continue to be a leader in this state on issues that he's passionate about and cares about. And I want all of you to see that no matter what disagreements we may have on other issues, when we agree on something, we're going to work together to try to make it happen and force, because we've been leaders in the highest office in this state, and force the people underneath us; the legislators, the mayors, the council people, the freeholders, the county executives, to not allow the partisan barriers to get up between them to prevent progress because if we can do it, then everybody else beneath us in terms of office status should be able to do it too. So his invitation today was really welcome and I appreciate it.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20140915a.html
