Public Statements
Governor Christie: Time To Reflect On The Blessings We Have As A Country
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 11, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: The world will never be the same as it was on September 10th of 2001. It will never be the same for Americans again. And so yes we do have an obligation to be vigilant and should continue to be. If you see something say something. If there's something unusual in your neighborhood, you see something odd happening, call law enforcement. Don't take it into your own hands. All those things are reminders that we should be giving people and are in public service announcements and other ways giving people every day. But I will tell you as somebody who was nominated as US Attorney the day before 9/11, I was nominated by President Bush on September 10th 2001 that it's a day that will always stick in my mind for that reason. It's a day that will always stick in my mind because of the extraordinary loss of life. It will stick in my mind because both my brother and my wife were within three blocks of the World Trade Center when that happened, and I always, always count my blessings that both of them got out alive. So it's always a very emotional day for me and for Mary Pat and for my younger brother Todd, and I'm sure it will be again for not only us but for the family members and friends of all the people who did lose their lives and others who escaped. So I just think it's a time for us to reflect as a people about the blessings that we have as a country and to remind ourselves that we must always be vigilant to protect our freedom and our liberty. And that there are men and women all across the world right now who are doing that on our behalf. And that we should spend a couple of minutes on September 11th to think about them, their families and the families of those who have lost service men and women in the defense of our liberty and the aftermath of that. So those are the things that cross my mind.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20140911a.html
