Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces First-Ever Agreement with ConnectAmericas to Promote Foreign Trade And Investment Newsroom
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 3, 2014
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Christie today announced that New Jersey has signed a partnership agreement with ConnectAmericas.com, a new social media platform that connects Latin American and Caribbean enterprises with business opportunities throughout North America. New Jersey is the first U.S. state to enter into a partnership agreement with ConnectAmericas, an online investment platform that will aim to provide connections and information across borders for Latin American businesses striving to enter new markets, including within New Jersey.
ConnectAmericas was developed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IBD) with the support of globally renowned companies such as Google, DHL, Visa and Alibaba. The online ecosystem works to promote international commerce by providing contacts, industry-specific information and financing options for Latin American and Caribbean companies looking to expand their markets.
"This partnership will serve as a facilitator in strengthening economic ties with Latin America and the Caribbean -- particularly with Mexico. As New Jersey's second largest trading partner already, we know that expanding that relationship, and building new ties with others in the region, is incredibly important for our economy moving forward," said Governor Christie. "Our joint agreement will result in greater opportunities to work together by increasing access to information as we conduct business and work on economic issues among our countries."
"ConnectAmericas brings together companies and entrepreneurs with potential clients, suppliers and investors through professional online communities that are segmented by industry," said Tracye McDaniel, President and CEO of Choose New Jersey, Inc. "It's a powerful tool, made even more powerful by a partnership that ConnectAmericas has with Google Apps for Business that allows users to connect with their newly acquired business contacts via Google from anywhere in the world."
The announcement was made in conjunction with IBD representative Mercedes RosalbaAráozFernández at an "Invest in New Jersey" symposium in Mexico City, Mexico. Sponsored by Choose New Jersey, the symposium included a keynote address by Governor Christie and industry roundtables led by New Jersey business leaders.
"While face-to-face meetings like the ones that took place at this symposium are ideal for fostering relationships, online platforms like ConnectAmericas can accelerate connections that can prove very valuable for New Jersey companies," McDaniel concluded.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20140903a.html
