Public Statements
Gov. Christie: This Project Is Going To Bolster An Already Great Port
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 2, 2017
Location: Unknown

This project is going to bolster the reputation of an already great port, and one that does as much or more business than almost any other Port in the world, and we are proud of the people who work here more than anything else. Our job is to provide them with as good an infrastructure as we can so they can bring their professionalism to their job every day, and that's why I'm so proud to have partnered with the ILA on this project as well. They have extraordinary men and women who work for them every day and who make all this activity around here happen along with Maher and some of our other operators. Together, we have a great group here that is running one of the best ports in America and now they do not have to worry about infrastructure failures by the state of New Jersey, the state of New York or the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey preventing them from having their businesses continue to grow and have them continue to be able to support their families. And so this is a project that I've been working on for over seven years and the fact that on June 30 it will finally be ready to do what we need to do, which is let those great ships come in here and unload their goods right here in New Jersey is something that is going to be great for generations to come in our state. So, I'm very proud of what's been done here. I want to congratulate everyone who has played a part in it. I want to thank Maher for their continued multi-million dollar investment in New Jersey, I want to thank the ILA again for their support and their help in bringing the best trained people in the world to do this work and I want to thank the folks on my staff as well who have worked extraordinarily hard to make sure that this project was done and done the right way. We are looking forward to what it's going to mean for the state's economy in the years ahead. So thank you all for coming today, congratulations to everyone who had a part in this and we look forward to all the great things that's going to come from this project. Thank you all very much.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170502d.html
