Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Selects Dr. Christopher Rodriguez as Next Director of Homeland Security and Preparedness
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: July 22, 2014
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today announced his selection of Dr. Christopher Rodriguez as New Jersey's next Director of the Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness (OHSP). Rodriguez brings more than a decade of experience in the Central Intelligence Agency, where he held a variety of analytical and management positions. Rodriguez will replace Edward Dickson, who has led OHSP as Director since February of 2012, as he departs to pursue new opportunities in the private sector.

"I am proud to name Dr. Chris Rodriguez as our state's next Director of Homeland Security and Preparedness, bringing his extensive career experience in the U.S. Intelligence Community and most recently in his role overseeing OHSP in this Administration," said Governor Christie. "Given Chris' stellar qualifications and his commitment to public service, I have no doubt that the Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness will continue to grow under Chris' leadership. I thank him for his willingness to take on this role for the people of New Jersey. At the same time, I want to thank Edward Dickson for his commitment to service and leadership for New Jersey as he led OHSP through incredibly trying circumstances for our state."

Dr. Rodriguez, who will be leaving his current position with the CIA, has previously served as a policy advisor on Governor Christie's staff where he oversaw OHSP, the Department of Law and Public Safety, the Department of Military and Veterans' Affairs, and the Department of Transportation from 2011 to 2012.

Dr. Rodriguez served as a senior analyst in the CIA's Counterterrorism Center. In this position, he monitored terrorist groups in the Middle East and South Asia, closely collaborating with U.S. Intelligence Community partners at the federal, state, and local levels to identify and counter persistent threats to the United States and its allies. During his time at CIA, Dr. Rodriguez also oversaw an analytic unit that handled global economic and energy security, as well as related counterintelligence and cyber threats.

Dr. Rodriguez has been recognized with several awards from CIA and the Director of National Intelligence for his leadership and professional achievements, both in the U.S. and abroad. Born and raised in Morris County, Dr. Rodriguez holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Williams College in Williamstown, Massachusetts and a Master's degree and Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20140722a.html
