Public Statements
Governor Christie: ReachNJ Is Aimed At Getting More People To Ask For Help
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 28, 2017
Location: Unknown

You go to any of these facilities you see God's hand at work, you see miracles happening on Earth, you see lives being saved and transformed. And so ever since 1995, 22 years later, I've been on the board at DayTop, I've been a supporter of it governmentally, I was a supporter of it when I was U.S. Attorney and now that I'm Governor, and it is a place where miracles happen on Earth and so are the other treatment facilities that are doing a good job in this state. That's why I'm asking all of you to be involved in a way that's even more than what you're doing now. The satisfaction you will get in return from watching what happens will be more than you can even imagine and it's certainly what's motivated me for the last 22 years on this issue. And if you don't believe it, you saw Vanessa, she's a miracle. I am sure her mother would tell you today she's a miracle. I am sure her mother had lost hope, and was distraught and despondent at what had happened to her daughter's life so quickly and yet today she's a miracle. And the great thing is she's an ongoing miracle every day, she knows that every day, it's her responsibility to use the tools that she's been given to keep herself sober. And she knows that within a minute it could all go away. That's part of the ongoing miracle is because part of this is belief in the human soul that we want to live and we want to do well. And I watch her and she inspires me, she inspires me, and she should inspire all of you, too, and you know what, in every community in this state there are people like her who can inspire you if you give them help and you give them permission to ask for help. So that's what this is all about, that's what the advertising campaign is about, that's what all these things are about is to bring this out of the shadows, bring it into the light, let people ask for help. And if the biggest problem we have is that we need to have more facilities to provide more help we'll deal with that issue, but we first need people to be willing to ask for help.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170428a.html
