Public Statements
Governor Christie: I Never Promised You That This Was Going To Be Mistake Free
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 4, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: : I never promised you, nor would I, that this was going to be mistake free. We're setting up a whole separate government in essence to run these programs and it's hard. All of those things though, that you need to know, and that you have the right to know, don't make you feel any better. It's kind of like when the power was out, right? And you're listening on a transistor radio in your cold house and you hear me on the radio saying 75,000 more households were restored their power today. And you're saying great, but it's not mine and until it's mine I don't really care. And in the same way, the fact that literally hundreds of thousands of people in this state have been helped by these programs and have their lives back to normal, makes you feel good as a fellow New Jerseyan, but doesn't relieve the stress and the strain that your under until your life is returned back to normal. I get that. I understand. And that's why I still -- about 40% of my time every week, of my personal time is still spent on this. Sixteen months later. That's probably 55% less than some of your time because I've spoken to lots of people who are still going through this and spend so much of their time dealing with all the issues I just talked about and others that I didn't even mention. But what you need to know is that all of these folks from my government who are working on this everyday are focused on one singular goal: to try to use this money as best we possibly can, to try to get it to the people who are the most needy and the most damaged, and to get their lives back to normal as quickly as we possibly can. None of that is easy -- none of that is easy for you, none of it's easy for us. We didn't ask for this, but we've got it and we now have to do the best we can to fix it.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20140304c.html
