Public Statements
Governor Christie: There's No Job In The World I'd Rather Have
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 4, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: There's no job in the world that I'd rather have than this one. I was born in this state. I spent my whole life here, dragged Mary Pat here kicking and screaming. This coming weekend 28 years ago we were married. This Saturday is our 28th wedding anniversary. And she's from Pennsylvania and she had no interest in coming here. I'll tell you, she didn't. She spent her whole life in Pennsylvania and she didn't want to come here, but I can tell you now that she loves this state and would never, ever leave it. You know, we've seen our four children all be born here. We're raising them here. Our oldest son even goes to college here, and stayed in New Jersey to go to college, and we love this place. It doesn't mean there aren't challenges. Believe me, I've seen it and felt it. There are tough times that you have to go through when you're Governor of New Jersey. But what I want all of you to know is never once have I thought to myself that, you know, I don't want to do this. You've given me an extraordinary honor and privilege to have this job and to be able to have the opportunity to try to improve the state where I was born and raised and where I intend to spend the rest of my life. So we've got a lot of work to do. We know that. We're going to be here to try to help us all get through this. This isn't easy. If it was easy everybody would do it. It's hard. And I know for all of you and your families I can tell you that you are in my thoughts and in my prayers every day. No one can go through what we went through together and not feel it. I see Chief Boyd up here from Seaside Heights. We went through a lot of difficult moments together in the immediate aftermath of that storm, and then nearly a year later when half the boardwalk in Seaside burned down. And we go through these things together. We support each other, and we know it's not easy. But we don't have any choice everybody. We don't have any choice. We have to work together to get this job done, and the word and the promise that you have from me is that I will work every waking hour of every day to make sure that this job gets done the right way and in a way that will continue to make you proud, and you all, you all give me the energy and the encouragement and the support to be able to do that every day, so thank you for letting me come and visit all of you. I'll see you soon.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20140304b.html
