Public Statements
Gov. Christie: We're Going To Continue To Let People Know How Their Money Is Being Spent
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 20, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: As we know, we've been working hard to make sure that the Transportation Trust Fund money from the supplemental expenditure that we put out in March is getting out and getting to work and so for folks like those here at Capital Health, that type of expenditure is very important to what they're doing so we have behind us the I-95 pavement preservation project. It's resurfacing, it's bridge repair, it's safety improvements, $15 million that is slated to begin soon on I-95 north and south here in Mercer County will positively impact the lives of our residents, improving their commutes by making those commutes safer and easier. And these projects demonstrate just how critical it was to come to a TTF solution that was fair to the taxpayers and would also help to rebuild our infrastructure. This project will extend the functional life of the existing pavement and save on future rehabilitation costs. It's really important because about 86,000 vehicles travel this section of roadway every day and having adequate pavement is imperative to the folks driving on it and that daily commute. So we're going to continue to let people know how their money is being spent and fact is that that $400 million supplemental is a big part of what we're going to do but just the beginning. We've submitted to the Legislature and I expect it to be approved at the time of the budget now a $2 billion spending program in state funds alone matched by $2 billion in federal funds for the TTF for Fiscal Year 2018. That'll be a 25 percent increase over what we have spent each and every year over the last seven years and that amount of money will go for the next seven years beyond that for a total of eight years, the longest reauthorization of the TTF in its history and it's funded through sufficient tax dollars to be able to get the job done. So we're looking forward to continuing to talk about these projects, continue to get them out there, helps to put people in our building trades to work, and helps to improve the infrastructure we travel on each and every day.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170620c.html
