Public Statements
Governor Christie: Today, We Have The Highest Number Of People Employed In The State's History
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 27, 2017
Location: Unknown

You know, I hear candidates for governor now saying that the problem is that New Jersey's economy is not growing. Now listen, I was a candidate for governor once and I understand you say lots of things but someone has to be there as the referee to actually tell people what's really happened. When I became governor, unemployment was nearly 10 percent, nearly 10 percent. Today, and it was higher than the national average, by the way, today, unemployment in New Jersey is 4.2 percent; below the national average of 4.5 percent. Today, in New Jersey, we have 4,331,300 people working. Why is that number important? That is the highest number of people employed in the state of New Jersey in the state's history. So if the economy is not growing enough, yet we have more people working today than we've had in any time in our history- not the go-go 80s, not the tech bubble 90s, no right now, we have more people working than ever. Who is that a testimony to? Not me. It's a testimony to Goya, it's a testimony to LG Electronics, to Honeywell, to UPS, to Amazon, to Quick Chek, to Subaru, to Bass Pro Shops and to Hard Rock. All companies who have grown or arrived here in the last seven years to create private sector jobs and how many private sector jobs have we created? Over 306,000 new private sector jobs. So not only have we recovered all the jobs lost during the last administration, but we have another 56,000 more on top of that. And what happened to the Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund? We advocated for and passed a constitutional amendment that said that governors and legislatures can no longer raid that fund for other purposes. You put the money in and employees put the money in and it should be there when the rainy day comes. So what's happened? We repaid the federal government two years ahead of schedule because of our discipline and today we have a multi-billion dollar surplus in the Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund and what did that allow us to do? Last year alone, we cut unemployment insurance taxes to business by $400 million. A $400 million tax cut for the businesses of this state for money they could put back in, reinvest in their businesses.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170427c.html
