Public Statements
Governor Christie: Back In The Old Days We Would Call Horizon A Monopoly
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 27, 2017
Location: Unknown

See, when I think about Horizon today in 2017, I don't think about non-profit and I don't think about insurer of last resort. I think of a monopolistic insurance company that has over 55 percent of the market in New Jersey and if you don't believe that Horizon calls all the shots in the health care in New Jersey, go to any physician group, any hospital or any one of you who are trying to get private health insurance for your employees in this state. Horizon is practically the only game in town and they know it. Back in the old days, we used to call that a monopoly. Now, I also think about the outrageous and offensive executive salaries that are being paid at a nonprofit. Executive bonuses that exceed 400 percent of salary. Executives being driven around in chauffeur-driven cars, millions upon millions of dollars being spent on in-house lobbyists, millions upon millions more being spent on outside lobbying firms, public relations departments expanding and growing every day costing millions more, not only employing executives but retired politicians and retired political operatives. How are they paying for all of this? Well, just look at what happened last year. It is nothing short of Medicaid profiteering. Profiteering on taxpayer money and profiteering on the poor. Why do I say that? Huge underwriting profits last year by Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield after we expanded Medicaid. In fact, $163 million in profit from serving the poor, which was supposed to be their mission in the first place. That money doesn't come from some magical place, it comes from you, from the pockets of the taxpayers of the State of New Jersey and Federal taxpayers who split the cost of Medicaid. So I'm calling for change, I'm proposing legislation today to put in place reforms, including increased transparency and governance changes that will help to keep these abusive practices in check. Horizon executives right now have the best of both worlds, they are non-profit so they have no prying public shareholders to come in and question their exorbitant salaries and their perks, but they get pay that exceeds that of most if not all of the executives in the New Jersey for-profit healthcare world who do have to answer to independent boards and some of them to public shareholders. That's got to end and this legislation would do just that. So let's talk about exactly what this legislation does, not the lies that Horizon's head of government affairs has been spreading about a bill that he hasn't even seen. This bill would require salary and bonus information for its executives and lobbyists to be placed online for all the public to see, not all that hard, a few key strokes, put it on up there if you want it to be seen. Because the Horizon executives have taken advantage of not having public shareholders, because they hide behind their non-profit status to pay themselves millions, this bill will change the board at Horizon as well. Right now, there are only four people on Horizon's board to protect the public interest, and the rate payers, out of 15 board members. The other 11 are hand-picked by Bob Marino, who is not only the CEO of Horizon but he's also chairman of the board, giving him incredible power. Giving him incredible power. So what do you think? Does he pick independent board members who will question his unfettered authority and his $4 million salary? I don't think so. So here's what this bill would do. It would increase the board from 15 members to 19 members and adding four more public members who would be appointed by the State Legislature, not by the Governor, the State Legislature. So now you would have 11 people appointed by the Horizon CEO and eight people appointed by the public. A much fairer game to be able to have people asking the questions you should have asked on your behalf. How could Horizon be opposed to that unless they had something very big to hide? This bill also will expand the Department of Banking and Insurance's authority to demand more information from Horizon annually on how it's supposedly meeting it's nonprofit mission. Again, if they're meeting their mission, they have nothing to fear. Just turn over the information and prove it. More transparency so the public knows how Horizon is spending your money. The bill authorizes the state to annually asses the level of Horizon's reserves -- that is their excess profits -- and determine the amount of the extra money over what is required both by the State for them to keep ample reserves to pay their claims and there's an even higher reserve requirement to be a Blue Cross Blue Shield member. Above that number too, which is 550 percent, if there's any money above that, that money should be transferred annually into a new state fund to be administered by the Department of Health. What would this new fund do? It would be dedicated to improving health care access for all of our citizens, whether for the treatment of a particular public health crisis, like the drug crisis we're going through right now or improving our current Medicaid program to make sure that people get the kind of coverage that they need.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170427a.html
