Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces New Leadership Transition At New Jersey Transit And New Jersey Turnpike Authority
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Feb. 18, 2014
Location: Trenton, NJ

Continuing to secure capable leaders to deliver responsive and accountable government for New Jerseyans in his second term, Governor Christie today announced new Executive Directors to take over at New Jersey Transit (NJ Transit) and the New Jersey Turnpike Authority (NJTA). Moving from her current role as Executive Director of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority, Veronique (Ronnie) Hakim will become the new Executive Director at NJ Transit, replacing the outgoing Jim Weinstein who served in the role for four years. Hakim will be succeeded by Joseph Mrozek, currently Deputy Commissioner at the New Jersey Department of Transportation.
Both moves are expected to be completed by March 1, 2014. These changes continue the transition to a second-term leadership team for the Administration.
"Both Ronnie and Joe have been effective, capable professionals who focus relentlessly on getting the job done for our state. I want to thank each of them for their willingness to continue to serve the people of New Jersey in these new roles," said Governor Christie. "I also want to thank Jim Weinstein for his dedication and service through our entire first term together. I wish him well in the next phase of his career."
Ronnie Hakim is a career transportation professional with extensive experience serving at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) in New York City for more than 23 years in key executive positions.
Joseph Mrozek has been with the New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) since February 2010 as Deputy Commissioner and brings extensive private and public sector experience to the position of Executive Director of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority.
The transition to the new Executive Directors will commence immediately.
Veronique ("Ronnie") Hakim, Executive Director, New Jersey Transit:
Ronnie Hakim was named Executive Director of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority in September 2010. Since joining the Turnpike Authority, Ms. Hakim has spearheaded needed cost savings initiatives while maintaining the agency's high performance levels. These savings and efficiencies include measures to save $10 million from NJTA's operating budget, continuing funding of the agency's ambitious $7 billion Capital Program at a lower cost of capital and bringing a higher level of transparency and accountability to the agency. Ms. Hakim serves as Chair of Transcom and is on the Board of Directors of the International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association.

Previously, Ms. Hakim worked for more than 23 years at the MTA in New York City, first as Special Counsel at MTA New York City Transit and later as Executive Vice President and General Counsel for Capital Construction at MTA Capital Construction. In that position, she provided senior management with policy and legal advice on numerous large-scale projects, including the Second Avenue Subway, the LIRR East Side Access Project, and the No. 7 Subway Extension Project. Ms. Hakim holds a B.A. in political science from the University of Rochester and a J.D. from the Pace University School of Law.
Joseph W. Mrozek, Executive Director, New Jersey Turnpike Authority:
Joe Mrozek was appointed Deputy Commissioner of NJDOT in February 2010. Prior to becoming NJDOT Deputy Commissioner, he served as Managing Partner of the Moffitt International Inc.'s (MII) Northeast Division and has more than 30 years experience in both staff and line senior management positions in several diverse industries.
Prior to joining MII, Mr. Mrozek served as an independent management consultant to International Benefits Consulting and Actuarial firm. He began his business career with Chase Manhattan Bank, then joined Asea Brown Boveri's (ABB) Lummus Global/subsidiary holding. He also served as Senior Vice President of Administration and Human Resources.

Mr. Mrozek is a graduate of Seton Hall University with a B.S. and an MBA. He has also completed programs conducted by The Wharton School and Columbia Graduate School of Business in Finance, Strategic Planning and International Marketing. He is past chairman of the Employee Relations Committee of the National Constructors Association and a former member of the International Association of Corporate and Professional Recruiters (IACPR).

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552014/approved/20140218b.html
