Public Statements
Christie Administration Seeks To Shift Sandy Recovery Funds to Support Tenant-Based Housing Vouchers And Create Lead Hazard Reduction Program
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Feb. 3, 2014
Location: Trenton, NJ

The Christie Administration today announced the state's request to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to amend the current New Jersey Disaster Recovery Action Plan to provide $17 million in tenant-based housing vouchers for low-income families and to create a $5 million Lead Hazard Reduction Program to protect children from increased lead poisoning threats in Sandy-damaged homes.
"This amendment continues the Christie Administration's commitment to helping all Sandy-impacted families, regardless of income, settle into safe and affordable homes," said New Jersey Department of Community Affairs (DCA) Commissioner Richard E. Constable III, whose department administers many of the state's Sandy Recovery programs. "Additionally, this amendment seeks to remove lead hazard threats, which have become increasingly problematic as a result of flooding from Sandy, in communities affected by the storm."
The substantial amendment would shift funding to provide rental assistance in the form of tenant-based vouchers for low-income families that were displaced by Sandy and, in so doing, prevent Sandy-related homelessness. More than 800 families receiving vouchers as a result of Sandy would be helped by the tenant-based housing vouchers proposed in the substantial amendment.
It would also create the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, which would provide $5 million in funding for lead assessment and remediation in Sandy-impacted homes, which are potentially at greater risk of lead threats due to flooding that has caused lead-based paint to flake. This new program would complement an effort to test young children, pregnant mothers and Sandy recovery workers for blood lead levels being administered by the New Jersey Department of Health with Social Services Block Grant funding from the federal government. Flooded homes built prior to 1978 are more likely to experience increased lead hazards.

Source:
