Public Statements
Gov. Christie: Prescription Collection Is Vital In Our Multi-Pronged Approach To Fight Addiction
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 26, 2017
Location: Unknown

We have to take a multipronged approach to this problem. We're not going to arrest our way out of this problem. We've tried that for about 30 years and it doesn't work. It doesn't mean that we won't continue to arrest folks who are dealing these drugs and profiting from them. In our state we will continue to do that because people who profit from killing others need to go to prison. But the fact is that we have to do other things as well and that's part of what today is all about. Last October, Americans turned in 366 tons of prescription drugs at over 5,200 sites operated by the DEA and local law enforcement. And more than 4,000 of these sites were operated, like this one in Toms River, by local law enforcement partners. Overall, in the12 previous Take Back events, DEA and its partners have taken in over 3,500 tons of pills. So we need to continue to do this and the Attorney General's Office is leading the effort on this and I appreciate Chris doing that along with his Division of Consumers Affairs. They are doing a great job in coordinating with all of the different businesses in the State of New Jersey and our local and county law enforcement partners in getting this done. I want to thank Walgreens, too. They're being an incredibly responsible corporate citizen by setting these kiosks up. It's going to now be more than 500 pharmacies across 36 states and Washington DC will have these kiosks permanently in Walgreens stores. And so you won't have to wait for any particular day to do it if you have a Walgreens near you, you can go in any day and deposit these in the kiosk and they will safely get rid of them. Just from an environmental perspective, please don't flush them down the toilet. Okay like, it's better than having your kids take them but that kind of thing going into the water system is not good for anybody in this state. And so we don't want to create more environmental problems while trying to eliminate another problem. There's a safe way for you to dispose of these and with more and more of these kiosks coming all over the state, you're going to have an opportunity to do that when it's convenient for you and not just at any other particular time.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170426g.html
