Public Statements
Governor Christie: Every Kid Means Every Kid
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

Now, in some cases -- I believe too many -- our children are not receiving the education they deserve. While many public schools are strong, too many, too many are still failing. While the vast majority of teachers are performing well, some are underperforming, and they should be removed from our children's classrooms. See the need to be better is particularly acute in New Jersey's cities. Our urban schools demand our attention, and believe me, they have mine. Where bold action was necessary, we have taken bold action. And we've made a commitment to the kids in our cities that they have a right to the same quality education as kids in our suburbs. In our largest school system, in Newark, we have brought in a new organization and new resources, not only in the form of state aid but in collaboration with parents, and teachers, and community leaders on the ground. One result -- we negotiated a historic contract with the teacher's union and delivered real merit pay alongside increased teacher involvement in that process. Most importantly, we want to encourage innovation while listening to the specific needs of our urban communities. It's the reason why we've empowered our superintendents in Newark and in Camden to make choices that work best for their kids, their parents and their schools. In Newark, that superintendent is Cami Anderson. Cami has moved to pay the best teachers more, to stop actions that are failing kids, to empower 50 new principals. To create cooperation between the public schools and the public charter sectors and to reorganize the school systems' structure to put the focus on kids, their schools, and their parents first. And what are we seeing? Well, so good early developments. Early childhood enrollment has increased by more than 1,000 students. And in her tenure the graduation rates have increased by 10%. Newark is leading the conversation in making sure every kid -- those who are behind, those who are ahead, and those who have special education needs -- are lifted up. Under Cami Anderson, every kid means every kid.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20140114p.html
