Public Statements
Governor Christie: For Me, It's Personal
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Jan. 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

Now, one part of this for me, it's personal. In this room today is a man who was a drug addict at 16 years old. His life was at risk, he was imprisoned, but treatment saved him. He was rehabilitated at Daytop Village, in our hometown of Mendham. He then went on to graduate from high school, to get a college degree, and ultimately got a law degree and passed the bar examine. I had the privilege of hiring him as a summer intern at the U.S. Attorney's Office many years ago, and working with Craig Hanlon. Craig is with us now in this Chamber. If you need proof that reclaiming a life is possible and that every life has precious and has value, and that no matter what condition you find that life in that life is salvageable if we reach out and given them the tools they need to help themselves. That proof is in this Chamber today. A practicing lawyer, who at 16 years old was in jail as a drug addict. Craig, welcome -- and thank you for making New Jersey a better place. Because of the years I've known Craig, I know personally the passion and strength that comes from the human desire to make your life better. And I believe we can do more to help give people a second chance. That's why today I'm proposing an initiative to expand integrated treatment and employment services for individuals receiving drug treatment services. By providing grant funds in the amount of $500,000 to be managed in partnership with The Nicholson Foundation, we will place individuals in jobs and help improve their retention. We will work directly with treatment providers so that they integrate employment services with drug treatment services for drug court participants. Research shows that employment during substance abuse treatment helps ensure continued participation in that very treatment and gives them sustainable long-term employment. So, now with this partnership we'll help empower individuals who want and deserve the opportunity to live a life like Craig's. A life redeemed and well lived.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20140114m.html
