Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces Expanded ReachNJ Information
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 26, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Chris Christie today announced a new interactive component to ReachNJ, enhancing the state's one-stop drug addiction prevention, treatment and recovery website to connect people with the nearest collection sites for Project Medicine Drop and Walgreen's Safe Medicine Disposal program.
"The ReachNJ website now facilitates a way for more New Jerseyans to anonymously rid their medicine cabinets of potentially deadly and addictive prescription drugs as part of our state's growing, cost-free medicine drop program," Governor Christie said. "Too often, the availability of opioids in the home or a parent or grandparents' home is the first step to addiction, especially for vulnerable populations, including children. ReachNJ is developing into a one-stop model for states joining our fight against this deadly disease. We will continue enhancing and raising awareness of ReachNJ resources and services, in partnership with local civic partners and the recovery community."
Governor Christie, local officials, and the anti-drug community commemorated National Take Back Day, which is being held Saturday, April 29, by visiting the Toms River Police Department in Toms River, the location of one of the drop boxes. Toms River collected 2,000 pounds of drugs in 2016, the State's highest collection amount. Last year, 68,200 pounds of prescription drugs were dropped off at collection locations throughout the state. Ocean County alone accounted for almost 12,000 pounds. Since its launch in 2011, Project Medicine Drop has resulted in the disposal of 157,162 pounds - - just over 78 tons.
Project Medicine Drop is operated by the Department of Law and Public Safety's Division of Consumer Affairs and is available seven days a week, 24 hours a day. As of December 2016, there have been 212 stationary drop boxes and 148 mobile drop boxes issued statewide. Additionally, another 25 Project Medicine Drop boxes will be installed throughout the Garden State this year. In the next few weeks, boxes will be located at police departments in Cape May City, Cape May County; Franklin, Gloucester County; Lebanon and Franklin, Hunterdon County; Delran and Lumberton, Burlington County; Bound Brook, Somerset County; and, Totowa, Passaic County.
In December, Governor Christie joined Walgreen's to launch their Safe Medicine Disposal Kiosk program in New Jersey. Walgreen's has drop boxes at 16 pharmacy locations throughout the state.
In addition, the Prescription Monitoring Program (PMP), an innovative data-sharing partnership between the New Jersey Attorney General's Office and the state's prescribers and pharmacists, keeps detailed information on every prescription filled in New Jersey for medications classified as Controlled Dangerous Substances (CDS), including potentially addictive opiate painkillers. Since September 2011, the database has captured information on more than 67.8 million written prescriptions. In an effort to prevent "doctor shopping" across state lines, New Jersey's PMP successfully collaborates with South Carolina, Minnesota, Rhode Island, Virginia, Connecticut, Delaware, and New York.
The latest data shows that prescribers are successfully making use of the ability to view cross-border prescription information, and in 2016, the interstate hub enabled a total of 591,411 data requests between New Jersey and our interstate partners, a 417-percent increase from 2015.
These Christie Administration initiatives build upon the success of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration's National Take Back Initiative, and the American Medicine Chest Challenge, which is sponsored in New Jersey by the DEA, Partnership for a Drug Free New Jersey, and the Sheriff's Association of New Jersey.
National Prescription Take Back Day serves as an important reminder of the potential dangers of prescription medications. Residents are encouraged to participate this Saturday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., by finding a collection site here and dropping off expired or unused prescriptions. It is free and anonymous, with no questions asked.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in 2012 physicians in America wrote 259 million prescriptions for opioid painkillers -- enough to give a bottle of pills to every adult in the country. Americans consume more opioids than any other country, and an estimated 20 percent of young people with prescribed opioid medications report using them to intentionally get high or increase the effects of alcohol or other drugs.
Today, drug overdoses cause more deaths than gun homicides and car crashes combined and took the lives of more people in the U.S. than HIV/AIDS did during its peak in 1995. Nearly two-thirds of these overdoses were linked to opioids like Percocet, OxyContin, heroin, and fentanyl.
In February, Governor Christie signed into law the nation's strongest reform, including a five-day maximum limit on opioid prescriptions. The Governor launched ReachNJ.gov and 1-844-ReachNJ during his 2017 State of the State address, creating one stop for people to access drug addiction prevention, treatment, recovery, and re-entry services and resources.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170426c.html
