Public Statements
Governor Christie: The Mets Doing Anything Is A Great Relief
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Dec. 13, 2013
Location: Unknown

I wouldn't characterize myself as angry Matt. It just you know, I don't like when mistakes are made, because of the question you asked me, right? Like, are you ultimately responsible? Yeah. I mean it's OK when I make the mistakes, you know, that I'm responsible. When others make the mistakes I'm you know, it bothers me. But I think anger would probably be a little bit too strong a word. Bothered probably would be the better word, you know? I was bothered by it but, you know, folks around here -- when I'm angry you tend to be able to see it. I don't hide it all that well. I'm not angry but I'm bothered when people make mistakes that wind up reflecting poorly on their performance, because their performance is the performance of this Administration, and so I'd rather have us all doing things well, and so I'm bothered whenever that happens. But, you know, as I said before, I commend Senator Baroni for his service, for his four years there. I know how hard that job is and he worked very hard at it. So did Mr. Wildstein at the job he had and, you know, it's unfortunate for them that a mistake got made near the end of their tenure but, you know, that's just the way life works sometimes and no, I wouldn't call myself angry, but bothered, yeah. I mean, I'd rather not be doing this, but, you know, this is the job. So, you know, when you lead this is what you've got to deal with sometimes, but other times, you know, I'm standing behind here when the folks that work for me have done extraordinary things, herculean things, that I get to smile and stand here and put my arms around them and take credit for it. So if you're going to do that you got to be prepared to do this too, and that's OK. I'm a big boy. I can handle it.
Governor Christie: Now we're into the sweet spot, thank you very much. Well, I do think for Yankees fans it's very interesting that Curtis Granderson is coming to the Mets and wearing Babe Ruth's number, I think that's particularly interesting. Listen, as a Mets fan, the fact that they're doing anything in the offseason to improve the team is a moment of great relief for me and to the extent that we can move north of 74 wins next year as a result of some of this stuff will be great and I hope that Colon at 40 years old--like I hope that he's really staying healthy in the offseason, takes care of himself so that he's ready to pitch 200 innings in the spring, but I'm happy with all the things they've done in the offseason, because I think every one of them gives us the chance to improve the team. And as somebody who spends a lot of time watching these games, seeing some better baseball would make my summer a lot more pleasant.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20131213b.html
