Public Statements
Christie Administration Expands Drivers License Transfers to Include Residents of U.S. Territories
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 25, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today announced that New Jersey is now honoring the transfer of valid and current drivers licenses of newly-relocated residents of U.S. territories and commonwealths without retesting. The commonsense change expedites the process and brings uniformity to how the state handles these applicants and those who want to transfer licenses from the 50 states and the District of Columbia.
"This is consistent, flexible good government in action," said Governor Christie. "With these procedural changes, we now not only have a uniform process here in New Jersey but also one that is consistent with our neighboring states -- in Delaware, Pennsylvania, New York and Connecticut. Our goal is ensuring in a practical, sensible way that all American citizens are treated the same at the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission."
Under the change, those making an application for a New Jersey drivers license who have a valid license from American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands will no longer have to take a written or a road test in order to qualify but will still have to present the 6 Points of ID that is required of everyone.
"When we learned of and then examined the inconsistency in drivers license transfers, it became clear that we needed to make the necessary changes to include our fellow citizens from these islands," said Motor Vehicle Commission (MVC) Chairman and Chief Administrator Raymond P. Martinez.
As with all drivers license transfers, customers seeking the license transfer will also have to provide proof that their driving privileges are in good standing and not suspended or revoked. For transferees from the states, this is usually done electronically through a secure database called the national Problem Driver Pointer System (PDPS) or the National Driver Registry (NDR). The territories do not participate in these programs.
New Jersey's 39 MVC agencies will also have the contact information for the counterpart DMV departments in each of the US territories and will assist the new resident in obtaining an abstract as needed.
New Jersey's neighbors in Pennsylvania, Maryland and New York already waive the retesting requirements for transferees from the territories.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20131025a.html
