Public Statements
Governor Christie: Folks Still Suffering Are Not Forgotten
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 22, 2013
Location: Unknown

DHS Commissioner Jennifer Velez: You know, I grew up in South Hackensack and Moonachie in the trailer park, so -- and when it rains and when it's windy it's loud, right? And so I can really see that, and Governor you were here right after -- right after the storm. You came to Moonachie. You met some really phenomenal people. So, this is great to have this place for families to come and gather. It's incredible for kids and seniors. I'm thrilled that we get to do that.

Governor Christie: Yeah I know, it's really good. It's a great idea and it's the kind of thing that we have to continue to promote to make people comfortable with the idea of making this a living place, a place where people really feel comfortable and the interactions you're already setting up and the partnerships are really key to that. So, it makes people feel more and more comfortable and they see familiar faces and folks who they're comfortable with are also here. That makes them feel, I think, comfortable about coming as well, so I think it's going to be really importantIt's hard to imagine for folks who don't -- and I remember in the first few days afterwards when I was going all over the place, and I was prepared for it, and you're never really prepared for it. I had gotten briefings from the National Guard and other people who had been on the scene right from the beginning, but you're never really prepared to see and you don't expect that that can do that level of destruction, but it can and it did, and for me from place to place that I traveled in the week or two especially afterwards it was extraordinary. So it's -- the point being from my perspective, we know that there's still a lot of things to do. We know there's still a lot of work that has to get done and we still know there are a lot of people who are really in need, and so we've got to be able to do more than one thing at once. We've got to be able to celebrate some of the successes we've had, but in no way forget the fact and I think this is an example of the fact that we're not forgetting, that people have ongoing needs that need to be addressed and that will be addressed. We're going to make sure that that happens because the folks who suffered the most are not going to be forgotten, not by me at least. I can guarantee you that.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20131022e.html
