Public Statements
Governor Christie Expands Business Community Support with Endorsement of New Jersey Food Council
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 14, 2013
Location: Bridgewater, NJ

Adding to the broad base of support he has received from New Jersey's leading business advocacy organizations, Governor Christie was today endorsed by the New Jersey Food Council. The Food Council represents 1,200 retail food stores, wholesalers, manufacturing and service companies that collectively employ more than 200,000 people. The announcement represents yet another endorsement gained by Governor Christie in his campaign for reelection that he did not receive in 2009.
The endorsement further affirms of the Governor's strong record of improving New Jersey's business climate by lowering taxes, the creation of over 142,000 private sector jobs, and his enactment of bipartisan solutions to New Jersey's biggest challenges.
The Council specifically cited the Governor's support of priorities to serve working families and the retail food and distribution industry generally, including the Food to Fuel Program, WIC reform, the Economic Opportunity Act and the Unemployment Insurance Tax.
"This Governor's principled pro-growth policies have focused on our job creating small businesses in the private sector in order to reignite New Jersey's economy," said Richard Saker of Saker ShopRites and Chair of the Food Council Committee for Good Government, the Political Action Committee of the New Jersey Food Council. "We are encouraged by the important progress the Governor has made in improving the climate for job creation and economic growth by lowering taxes, focusing on common sense regulation, and cutting red tape. We thank the Governor for his fiscally disciplined effort to continuously balance the State budget over the past four years by cutting spending, not by raising taxes on families and business."
The announcement was made at the Super Foodtown in Port Monmouth. Owned and operated by the Azzolina and Scaduto families, Food Circus Super Markets have eight area locations along the shore that were completely shut down without power as a result of Superstorm Sandy.
In the immediate aftermath of the storm, the team at all eight Food Circus Super Markets pulled together to respond to immediately meet the needs of the community, including making donations of food, water, and supplies, and opening on limited generator power to serve the community. With flashlights, store staff escorted people five at a time to do their shopping, ultimately serving hundreds of local residents in their time of need.
"Not only has Governor Christie provided bipartisan results to get our economy moving and support private sector businesses, he was the steady and confident leader New Jersey needed during our time of crisis," said New Jersey Food Council Chairman Phil Scaduto, of family owned and operated Food Circus Super Market. "The food distribution sector is a lifeline industry, and we recognize and accept the responsibility of getting our communities back to normalcy after such extreme events like Sandy. Without the Governor's leadership, we wouldn't have been able to provide our customers and communities with the support they needed during that difficult time."
"After a decade of recklessness and dysfunction, New Jersey is finally back on the right path -- because we've chosen to reach across the aisle to get things done in a bipartisan way," said Governor Christie. "Today, our fiscal house is in order, taxes are lower, our businesses are hiring people once again, and we are fueling our growth with a bipartisan job creation bill I signed last month. I thank the New Jersey Food Council for their recognition of our efforts, their partnership, and now their support moving forward as we continue to fight to move our state forward."
Governor Christie has received broad support from New Jersey's business community leaders and organized labor alike. He was endorsed by the National Federation of Independent Businesses, the heads of the Statewide Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of New Jersey, the Essex County Latino-American Chamber of Commerce, the Hispanic American Chamber of Commerce Foundation of Essex County, and over one hundred individual Hispanic-owned businesses from across the state. At the same time, his commitment to creating jobs, investing in New Jersey's infrastructure, and promoting a friendly business climate has also drawn incredible support from New Jersey's labor and building trades community, with 26 organizational endorsements.

Source: https://www.christiefornj.com/press/governor-christie-expands-business-community-support-endorsement-new-jersey-food-council
