Public Statements
Gov. Christie: I Want To Thank Amazon For Their Faith And Commitment To New Jersey
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: April 21, 2017
Location: Unknown

Our partnership that we sealed five years ago, as Chris mentioned, in May of 2012, is strong and it continues to thrive with the news that Amazon plans to open three new fulfillment centers, bringing the total to 10 in New Jersey and creating at least another 2,500 new fulltime jobs and maybe more. It's great news for everybody here in New Jersey. These new sites in Cranberry, Edison and Logan Township join Amazon's seven existing facilities: Avenel, here in Carteret, Florence, Logan Township, Moonachie and Robbinsville with a workforce that has now expanded to 13,000 fulltime employees here in New Jersey. I want to thank Amazon for their faith and commitment to New Jersey. Amazon is now among a long list of really, really good companies that are flourishing in our new, pro-business landscape that we've created over the last four years featuring lower taxes and always having featured a top-notch workforce here in New Jersey, well-educated. Amazon's action is yet another affirmation of those plans that we executed on as an administration and that we've worked with with our business community. Now you see what's happening here at Amazon as being reflected in what's being reported about the business activity here in New Jersey. The long-term news coming out of the US Bureau of Labor Statistics is very clear and very positive. New Jersey's economy is continuing a steady upward climb. Federal data shows we have seven consecutive years now of private sector employment growth. We are not cherry picking numbers like some critics - it's the Bureau of Labor statistics who have reported every year since 2012 that New Jersey job growth is hitting levels not seen since the year 2000. Today, our unemployment rate is down to 4.2 percent. This is the lowest unemployment has been in New Jersey in 10 years, since 2007, and well below the national rate of 4.5 percent. Today, we have more New Jersey residents reporting to work than at any time in our history; 4.33 million people are reporting to work every day in New Jersey

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552017/approved/20170421c.html
