Public Statements
Christie Administration Announces $50 Million In Federal Hazard Mitigation Program Grants To Help Protect Communities Against Future Disasters
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 8, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

As part of its ongoing efforts to rebuild stronger in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, the Christie Administration today announced that $50 million in federal Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) funds will be allocated to counties to enable local and regional resiliency projects that will better protect the state in the event of a storm or other disaster. The Administration is partnering with county emergency management coordinators in this effort in order to leverage their knowledge, perspective and expertise.
"Collaborating with county and local officials has been part of our fundamental resiliency strategy to protect our communities from future storms and disasters," said Governor Christie. "The state will continue to partner with these stakeholders to provide technical assistance and other support to realize meaningful and cost-effective projects."
County coordinators will work with their local municipalities to prioritize regional and local resiliency measures to address the state's most vulnerable areas, to better protect lives and property, and to help ensure continuity of critical services and enhance the reliability of infrastructure in future storms. Communities that have been awarded Post-Sandy Planning Assistance Grants from the state will be able to access professional planning resources, which will help them to further examine and carry out innovative resiliency projects. For information on the Post-Sandy Planning Assistance Grant program, visit http://www.nj.gov/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20131001a.html.
Funding local mitigation projects is another step in the Christie Administration's commitment to plan and implement comprehensive strategies to rebuild New Jersey in a stronger and more resilient manner. In collaboration with federal, state and local leaders, as well as universities, planning organizations, and stakeholders, New Jersey has also funded other initiatives under the HMGP, including: the kickoff of a $300 million buyout program to provide approximately 1,000 homeowners the option of selling their storm-damaged properties in repetitive flooding areas; $100 million to enable homeowners living in certain flood zones to recoup up to $30,000 of the cost to elevate their homes; and $2.8 million to help counties and corresponding communities update their hazard mitigation plans, incorporating lessons learned from Sandy.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20131008a.html
