Public Statements
Democrat River Edge Mayor Sandy Moscaritolo Endorses Governor Christie For Reelection
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 6, 2013
Location: Bridgewater, NJ

Continuing to earn cross-aisle support from elected officials up and down New Jersey, Governor Christie was today endorsed by the 49th elected Democrat in his reelection campaign, River Edge Mayor Sandy Moscaritolo. The endorsement marks the eighteenth Democrat mayor to stand in support of Governor Christie.
"Since taking office, Governor Christie has taken a decisive and responsible stand in order to put the best interests of all New Jerseyans ahead of partisan politics. His bipartisan successes in capping property taxes and implementing historic reforms to save our state's collapsing pension and health benefits system, along with balancing four consecutive budgets without raising taxes, have given families and businesses across the state results they can be proud of," said River Edge Mayor Sandy Moscaritolo. "Governor Christie has an unwavering willingness to do what is right, not merely what is popular, as he displayed throughout the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. He deserves another four years as the Governor of New Jersey and I am proud to endorse him for reelection."
Democrats outnumber Republicans in River Edge by a three to two margin (30.0% to 20.5%), and the town was carried by President Obama in 2012. River Edge includes an Asian American population of over 20% and a Hispanic population of nearly 8%.
"From our first day in office, I made it a priority of this administration to bring people together, regardless of party, to work with one another and get things done for the people of New Jersey. Today is a gratifying day for me, as it stands as a symbol of how far our state has come over the past three and a half years," said Governor Christie. "Our job is not yet done, though. We still have work to do to ensure a prosperous future for our children and our grandchildren. I thank Mayor Moscaritolo and I am proud to have him stand with me in this campaign."
To date, forty-nine Democrat elected officials have endorsed Governor Christie for reelection, including: State Senator Brian Stack, Essex County Executive Joe DiVincenzo, Essex County Sheriff Armando Fontoura, Long Branch Mayor Adam Schneider, Orange Mayor Dwayne Warren, Belleville Mayor Ray Kimble, Bloomfield Mayor Ray McCarthy, Glen Ridge Mayor Peter Hughes, Livingston Mayor Rudy Fernandez, Paterson City Council President Anthony Davis, Burlington City Mayor Jim Fazzone, Manville Mayor Angelo Corradino, Chesilhurst Mayor Michael Blunt, Harrison Mayor Ray McDonough, Sea Bright Mayor Dina Long, Harrison City Council members Laurence M. Bennett, Jesus R. Huaranga, James Doran, Victor Villalta, Carol Mandaglio, Michael Dolaghan, Francisco Nascimento, and Anselmo Millan, Garfield Deputy Mayor Tana Raymond, Belleville Town Council members Steve Rovell and Michael Nicosia, Glen Ridge Council President Stuart Patrick and Councilman David Lefkovitz, Point Pleasant Borough Mayor William Schroeder, Spring Lake Mayor Jennifer Naughton, Spring Lake Council President Janice Venables, Spring Lake Council members Bob Drasheff and Priscilla Reilly and Union City Commissioners Tilo Rivas, Lucio Fernandez, Maryury Martinetti, and Celin Valdivia, Secaucus Mayor Michael Gonnelli, Secaucus Town Councilmembers James Clancy, Robert Contantino, Gary Jeffas, William McKeever, and Susan Pirro, River Vale Mayor Joe Blundo, Scotch Plains Mayor Kevin Glover, Teaneck Councilmen Yitz Stern, Elie Katz, and Mark Schwartz, and River Edge Mayor Sandy Moscaritolo.

Source: https://www.christiefornj.com/press/democrat-river-edge-mayor-sandy-moscaritolo-endorses-governor-christie-reelection
