Public Statements
Governor Christie Signs Legislation Allowing For Easier Access To Services For New Jersey Veterans
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 29, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

Building on his record of support for New Jersey's veterans and their families, Governor Chris Christie today signed legislation requiring the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission (MVC), upon submission of satisfactory proof, to indicate a veteran status on a driver's license or identification card. The legislation will allow for easier access to services and incentives for veterans by conveniently identifying them as a former member of the Armed Forces. It builds on the "County Identification Cards for Veterans Act" signed by Governor Christie in 2012 that empowered county officials to create identification cards for resident veterans.
"Providing every possible support for New Jersey's veterans and their families has been a priority of mine since taking office," said Governor Christie. "Plain and simple, this legislation will make life easier and more convenient for veterans of all ages. With this single point of identification, veterans will now have easier access to services and discounts at businesses across the state, which is the least we can do for the brave men and women who have sacrificed so much to serve our nation."
Governor Christie signed the bill during the 28th annual Governor's military review and awards ceremony in Sea Girt, an event he participates in each year as the Commander-In-Chief of the New Jersey National Guard. This was the first military review since Superstorm Sandy.
"When tragedy struck last year, the men and women of our National Guard played an instrumental role in keeping our citizens safe and secure," added Governor Christie. "By helping evacuate, shelter, and provide food and water until folks could return home, the National Guard stood with New Jersey during its darkest hours, and we will all be forever grateful."
Throughout his term in office, Governor Christie has supported New Jersey's veterans and their families through increased funding and support for various veterans-based housing, employment, and educational services and programs, including increased funding for the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs (DMAVA) in the Governor's Fiscal Year 2014 Budget. He also has signed a series of job-creating bills for veterans, including measures easing access to teaching, nursing, and EMT certificates, extending occupational licenses after returning from active service, and making it easier to obtain Commercial Drivers Licenses. Additional information for veterans programs and services is available on DMAVA's website.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20130929a.html
