Public Statements
Governor Christie Expands Support in Law Enforcement Community...
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 24, 2013
Location: Bridgewater, NJ

Expanding the support he has earned from leaders and leading organizations representing law enforcement professionals in New Jersey, Governor Christie today introduced the Career Public Safety Officials for Christie coalition and unveiled its statewide leadership team. Representing the Governor's support in and among law enforcement communities across New Jersey, Career Public Safety Officials for Christie will be led by a statewide leadership team of law enforcement leaders and include supporters from all 21 counties.
"Today I am honored to have the support of the law enforcement men and women from across our state who, each day, serve their communities with courage, distinction, and a tireless dedication to protecting our families, friends, and neighbors. Their sacrifice demonstrates true heroism and I thank every law enforcement official for the work that they do every day and for the lives they saved during Superstorm Sandy," said Governor Christie. "It is an honor to stand with these men and women and it is truly gratifying to have them play a key role in our campaign."
Just yesterday, Governor Christie received the backing of the Port Authority Police Sergeants Benevolent Association, Port Authority Lieutenants Benevolent Association, Port Authority Police Detectives Endowment Association, and Waterfront Commission Police Detectives Endowment Association. The Governor was previously endorsed in January by the 1,300-member Port Authority Police Benevolent Association and in March by the New Jersey Career Fire Chiefs Association.
Governor Christie has also earned the support and endorsement of the National Coalition of Latino Officers, the Essex County Police Chiefs Association, and Essex County Sheriff Armando Fontoura.
"Over the last three and a half years, Governor Christie has demonstrated steadfast support for New Jersey's law enforcement community. Under his bold leadership, he has provided law enforcement officials in every corner of the state with the tools we need to serve our communities and keep our residents safe," said Essex County Sheriff Armando Fontoura. "Along with our colleagues in uniform from throughout New Jersey's law enforcement community, we are honored to stand with Governor Christie and be a part of his campaign for reelection."
Governor Christie furthered his commitment to New Jersey's law enforcement community in the Governor's Fiscal Year 2014 budget, by providing the largest pension payment in New Jersey history to meet the state's obligation to its public servants.
The Career Public Safety Officials for Christie coalition is led by a bipartisan statewide leadership team and county coordinators from across the spectrum of public safety professions including police, fire, and corrections officers in all of New Jersey's 21 counties.

Source: https://www.christiefornj.com/press/governor-christie-expands-support-law-enforcement-community
