Public Statements
Energy Department Partners with State of New Jersey to Study Ways to Improve the Reliability of New Jersey's Transit System in Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy
Press Release
By: Chris Christie Ernest Moniz
Date: Aug. 26, 2013
Location: Secaucus, NJ

As part of the Obama Administration's ongoing commitment to provide support to communities affected by Superstorm Sandy, the Energy Department today announced that it will partner with the State of New Jersey, NJ Transit and the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities to assess NJ Transit's energy needs and help develop a conceptual design of an advanced microgrid system. Under this partnership, the Department's Sandia National Laboratories will assist NJ Transit in its efforts to enhance the reliability and resiliency of electricity used for its rail and system operations.
U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz and Governor Chris Christie traveled to Secaucus, New Jersey, to announce the memorandum of understanding at NJ Transit and discuss making the region's critical infrastructure more resilient in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy.
"As we rebuild New Jersey from Superstorm Sandy, I am committed to making our state stronger and more resilient. NJ TRANSITGRID is an important step in that process," said Governor Christie. "This first-of-its-kind electrical microgrid will supply highly-reliable power during storms, and help keep our public transportation systems running during natural times of disaster, which is critical not only to our economy, but also emergency and evacuation-related activities. The Obama Administration has been an integral partner with this innovative project, and we will work closely with them in the months ahead to make NJ TRANSITGRID a reality."
"The President's Climate Action Plan calls for making our nation's infrastructure smarter and stronger so that it can withstand new and more serious environmental threats and increasingly severe weather events," said Secretary Moniz. "The partnership announced today marks an important step in this direction by working to improve the electric grid system in New Jersey and the broader region so that it is more resilient and better equipped to maintain power during natural disasters."

Source:
