Public Statements
Christie Administration Expands "reNew Jersey Stronger' Housing Initiative With $70 Million Landlord Rental Repair Program
By: Chris Christie
Date: July 24, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

The Christie Administration today launched a $70 million Landlord Rental Repair Program to provide grants to help rental property owners repair, reconstruct or elevate rental units damaged by Superstorm Sandy. The program is part of the "reNew Jersey Stronger' Housing Initiative, and will provide up to $50,000 per unit to be made available at affordable rental rates. Eligible owners of rental property in the 9 most-impacted counties from Sandy will be prioritized, but the grants will be available for rental properties damaged by the storm in all 21 counties. It is anticipated the program will benefit approximately 1,500 rental units.

"The Landlord Rental Repair Program is another piece of my Administration's ongoing commitment to assist New Jersey renters and rental property owners who are continuing to rebuild and recover from the effects of Superstorm Sandy," said Governor Christie. "This new $70 million grant program is a key piece of the $379 million we are investing to create new affordable housing units statewide over the next two years."
In an effort to increase the supply of affordable rental housing in hard-hit communities, rental property owners seeking to participate in the Landlord Rental Repair Program must agree to rent their rehabilitated units to low- and moderate-income families. They also must agree that the property will be a year-round rental, either converting it from a part-time rental or continuing to rent it year around.
"Because rental property restoration is critical to the long-term health of our state after Superstorm Sandy, we are pleased to add the Landlord Rental Repair Program to our overall housing recovery efforts," said New Jersey Department of Community Affairs (DCA) Commissioner Richard E. Constable, III, whose Department oversees the "reNew Jersey Stronger' initiative and many of the key recovery programs. "In addition to increasing the supply of rental housing in areas that were damaged by the storm, the Landlord Rental Repair Program will also serve to help revitalize damaged neighborhoods by transforming blighted buildings into newly renovated rental properties."

Properties with 25 or fewer units are eligible for the Landlord Rental Repair Program and the properties must have sustained damage from Sandy. Preference for funding will be given to smaller projects with seven or fewer units, properties with mold remediation needs, and those that will be used for special needs housing. The owner of the property must either be the pre-storm owner, a new owner, or a prospective owner that can demonstrate valid site control.

Source:
