Public Statements
Governor Christie: This Answer Always Makes My Political Advisors Nervous
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: June 18, 2013
Location: Unknown

Student: What's your favorite basketball team, baseball team and football team?
Governor Christie: Alright. My favorite basketball team is the New York Knicks which has been a bit of a frustrating enterprise but the last couple of years they've had good seasons. They've had some fun games to watch. My favorite baseball team is the New York Mets. See now these are probably Yankee fans, right that are booing. Are those Yankee fans that are booing?
Students: Yeah!
Governor Christie: Here's what I don't understand about Yankee fans. The Mets stink. We're awful and the Yankees are usually really good so why do you boo us? You should feel badly for us. We root for this awful team that never wins and yet the Yankee fans boo us. I don't understand that. Now here is one of the things, the last answer is one of the things that gets all of my political advisors nervous, so get ready for a nervous moment for them. They're going to get nervous now because my favorite football team is not the New York Giants, it's not the New York Jets and it's not the Philadelphia Eagles, get ready now, my favorite football team are the Dallas Cowboys which by the way is not the smartest thing for the Governor of New Jersey to want to be is a fan of the Dallas Cowboys. But I was a big fan when I was your age. I was a big fan of Roger Staubach who was the quarterback for the Cowboys back then. And the Giants and the Jets pretty much stunk when I was a kid and my father was a Giants fan and I used to remember watching him when I was eight, nine years old and every Sunday he would watch the Giants and yell at the TV set. I used to think to myself why would I want to root for a team that makes you angry? So I decided not to and the Cowboys were really good back then and I liked Roger Staubach so I've got a chance now to talk about the fun people I've gotten to meet. I've actually gotten a chance to meet Roger Staubach who lives in Texas now full time and came up to New Jersey for an event and I got to meet him and he signed the football for me which I have in my office so that's pretty cool. So you asked favorite baseball, basketball and football teams, right? Those were the three you asked for. And by the way, just to finish the politically incorrect answers, if you ask me about hockey, I'm a New York Rangers fan, not a New Jersey Devils fan but here's the problem. There were no Devils when I was growing up so there was only the Rangers and so that's how I became a Rangers fan and you've got to be loyal to your teams even when they're doing well or doing poorly, you've got to be loyal to your teams, the teams you grew up liking are the teams you should keep liking.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20130618d.html
