Public Statements
Christie Administration Announces Launch of "reNew Jersey Stronger" Housing Assistance Initiative
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: May 24, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

Marking a major step forward in the recovery from Superstorm Sandy, the Christie Administration today launched the reNew Jersey Stronger housing assistance initiative to assist homeowners impacted by the storm. Beginning today, eligible homeowners can apply for grant assistance at www.renewjerseystronger.org or by calling 1-855-SANDYHM (1-855-726-3946).
The grants are designed to encourage homeowners to resettle in their primary residences and help them reconstruct, rehabilitate, elevate and mitigate their homes.
"We are working incredibly hard to get money out to Sandy-impacted individuals as quickly as possible, and today's announcement demonstrates our commitment to this mission," said Governor Chris Christie. "Sandy may have damaged homes in New Jersey, but it did not destroy New Jerseyans' spirits. With the help of initiatives such as reNew Jersey Stronger housing grants, we will be back, stronger than ever."
Today's launch of the housing assistance programs comes less than a month after the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) approved New Jersey's Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Disaster Recovery Action Plan. The Action Plan details how the State will utilize $1,829,520,000 in federal funding to help homeowners, renters, businesses and communities impacted by Superstorm Sandy. The reNew Jersey Stronger housing assistance initiative will utilize $780 million of the allocation.
"While homeowners can apply online and by phone today, they will also be able to apply in-person on June 8 at Sandy Housing Assistance Centers which will be located in those counties most impacted by the storm. Housing counselors both at the centers and over the phone can help applicants navigate the entire process by providing support and clear guidance," said Richard E. Constable, III, Commissioner of the NJ Department of Community Affairs (DCA), which will administer the distribution of CDBG Disaster Recovery funds for New Jersey. "Our reNew Jersey Stronger housing assistance programs will help thousands of Sandy-impacted individuals."

Source:
