Public Statements
Governor Christie Signs Joint Resolution Designating March As Multiple Sclerosis Education and Awareness Month in New Jersey
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 28, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

Continuing his commitment to supporting New Jerseyans living with disabilities, Governor Chris Christie today signed AJR-17 designating March as "Multiple Sclerosis Education and Awareness Month" to help raise public awareness for multiple sclerosis (MS) and the more than 14,000 New Jerseyans living with the disease. Commonly a disabling disease of the central nervous system, MS interrupts the flow of information within the brain, and between the brain and body. Nationwide, it's estimated that between 350,000 and 500,000 Americans have been diagnosed with MS.
"Today, Multiple Sclerosis affects more than 14,000 New Jerseyans and countless families throughout our state," said Governor Christie. "While we've yet to find a cure for the disease, I'm proud that because of our collaborative work we've been able to create the Multiple Sclerosis Task Force and make New Jersey an Employment First state, helping to improve the quality of life for residents living with MS. By signing this measure, we can continue to raise public awareness and promote greater education, understanding, and support for those with MS and their families."
Earlier this month, Governor Christie was named the National Multiple Sclerosis Society's 2012 Governor of the Year during their annual Public Policy Conference in Washington, DC. In honoring the Governor, the Society specifically cited several administration actions and initiatives, including signing the Multiple Sclerosis Task Force bill in 2012, ensuring access to prescription medications to uninsured residents impacted by Superstorm Sandy, and making New Jersey an Employment First state.
Primary sponsors of AJR-17 include Assemblymembers Timothy J. Eustace (D- Bergen and Passaic), Connie Wagner (D- Bergen), Nancy F. Munoz (R- Morris and Somerset), and Craig J. Coughlin (D- Middlesex). Senate sponsors include Senators Fred H. Madden, Jr. (D- Gloucester and Camden) and Joseph F. Vitale (D- Middlesex).

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20130328e.html
