Public Statements
Christie Administration Submits Disaster Recovery Action Plan To Federal Government For Approval
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 28, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

The Christie Administration today submitted the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Disaster Recovery Action Plan to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for review and approval. The Action Plan outlines how the State will utilize $1,829,520,000 in federal funding to help homeowners, renters, businesses and communities impacted by Superstorm Sandy.
As part of the grant process, members of the public had an opportunity to comment on the Action Plan during a seven-day period that closed March 19. The Plan submitted to HUD includes the public comments that were submitted along with the State's responses. The comments informed the final Action Plan that was sent to the federal government, including suggestions and revisions that assisted the Department of Community Affairs (DCA) in establishing a process to better identify public housing needs, to better explain how citizen participation helped develop the Action Plan, and to provide clarity on what "first-come, first-served" means in the context of applicable programs.
"The programs designed as part of the Action Plan will help address the unmet needs of Sandy-impacted homeowners, renters, and business owners as they rebuild their lives and recover from their losses," said Governor Christie. "I thank HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan for his assurance of a quick review so that we can begin getting relief out to the many people who were devastated by Superstorm Sandy."
Pursuant to HUD guidelines, the Action Plan focuses predominantly on the nine counties most affected by the storm (Atlantic, Bergen, Cape May, Essex, Hudson, Middlesex, Monmouth, Ocean, and Union) and on assisting low-to-moderate-income families. Following HUD approval, more than 26,000 homeowners, more than 5,000 renters and more than 10,000 businesses will be helped, as well as dozens of local governmental units.

Source:
