Public Statements
Christie Administration's Partnership with Lockheed Martin Secures Continued Investment, Economic Development, and Innovation for New Jersey
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 28, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

Recognizing the importance of collaborative partnerships that bolster economic development and scientific innovation, Governor Chris Christie today commended Lockheed Martin for building on its 40-year commitment to New Jersey and securing a $100 million contract with the federal government to develop the next generation of Aegis radar defense technology. Lockheed Martin recently won the U.S. Navy's Aegis Combat System Engineering Agent program contract, preserving area jobs, with a bid to provide systems engineering and development support to all Aegis-equipped ships between now and 2018.
Lockheed Martin's commitment to New Jersey has already attracted some of the best scientific talent to the state and strengthened the state and local economies. This new contract secures its footprint in South Jersey, along with an incentive agreement with the state to invest in equipment and infrastructure at its Moorestown facility, and an innovative higher education research partnership to foster the next generation of high-skilled, talented workers.
"New Jersey is well-known for its role in the development of some of the world's most important technological innovations, including the Lockheed's development of the Aegis System," said Governor Christie. "With the awarding of this contract and our continued partnership to sustain the economic vitality of the region, not only will Lockheed Martin continue the vital work of protecting our nation, the company will continue its commitment to the Garden State, the local community and the great workers it employs."
Lockheed Martin has established itself as an international leader in major systems management, hardware production, systems integration and worldwide field support of the world's most advanced surface ship radar and weapon systems. The company, which employs about 4,000 workers in Moorestown and more than 1,300 at other New Jersey locations, is the Navy's current manufacturer and provider of onboard ship radar systems, produced primarily at the company's Moorestown facility.
In December 2011, Governor Christie wrote to the Navy admiral in charge of Integrated Systems, noting the long history of Lockheed in New Jersey, and the company's decades-long role in the Navy's Aegis program, as well as the state's commitment to the defense-related business community.
Lt. Governor Kim Guadagno noted that, as part of New Jersey's ongoing commitment to help New Jersey businesses succeed, the New Jersey Business Action Center provided a comprehensive incentive proposal to Lockheed Martin. To support Lockheed Martin's bid, the New Jersey Economic Development Authority last year approved a $40 million Grow NJ incentive grant for new machinery and equipment and modifications and infrastructure improvements to Lockheed Martin's Moorestown facility.
"With more scientists and engineers per square mile than any other place on earth, New Jersey is the ideal location for both Lockheed Martin and the Navy's Aegis program," said Lt. Governor Guadagno. "By working closely with Lockheed Martin, the New Jersey Partnership for Action, which was created by Governor Christie, played a key role in not only helping the company win this contract, but in keeping and creating jobs for New Jersey workers. All New Jerseyans should take great pride that our state is a world leader in science and technology, a position recognized by countless companies and the U.S. Navy."
In addition, New Jersey is working with Lockheed Martin to create a New Jersey Advanced Research Technology and Talent Center, a partnership among the state, Lockheed Martin, Secretary of Higher Education Rochelle Hendricks and the state's higher education community. The center will enable academic researchers and Lockheed Martin's technologists to collaborate in developing advanced technologies, training and educational experiences.
Lockheed Martin's Moorestown facility is their largest in New Jersey. In addition, the company has several other locations in the state, including Atlantic City, Cherry Hill, Edison, Egg Harbor Township, Hightstown, Marlton, Mays Landing, Mount Laurel, Pleasantville, Teterboro and Tinton Falls. The company's facility in Cherry Hill also serves as headquarters for the Advanced Technology Laboratories.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20130328b.html
