Public Statements
Christie Administration Announces $8.7 Million Disaster Case Management Award for Sandy Survivors
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 22, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

The Christie Administration today announced the award of up to $8.7 million to Catholic Charities, Diocese of Trenton for Disaster Case Management (DCM) services for New Jersey residents in need of post-Sandy assistance. The competitively bid contract will be effective April 1, 2013 through October 30, 2014. Currently, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) administers the program with Catholic Charities, USA.
"Disaster Case managers are a critical social service support for New Jersey residents impacted by Superstorm Sandy," said Governor Christie. "As individuals and families work towards storm recovery, they will have access to professionals that can guide them to programs and services to address a variety of needs they may have."
Catholic Charities, Diocese of Trenton will administer services statewide to New Jersey residents impacted by Sandy through designated outreach locations. To facilitate recovery, Catholic Charities will provide one-to-one guidance, linking those impacted by Sandy to federal, state or local resources.
In its bid, Catholic Charities, Diocese of Trenton indicated that it will coordinate Disaster Case Management activities with Catholic Charities, New Jersey, as a consortium to serve disaster survivors statewide. Partner agencies include Catholic Charities of the Dioceses of Camden, Metuchen, Newark and Paterson.
"Catholic Charities, New Jersey brings to this contract years of experience in providing disaster assistance in New Jersey and throughout the country," said Department of Human Services Commissioner Jennifer Velez. "This expertise is essential to understanding and supporting residents' efforts to rebuild and recover their lives."
DCM differs from other individual disaster assistance programs at federal and state levels. Its services help clients make wise use of available resources and provide comprehensive referrals to services that include health care, transportation assistance, and furniture assistance.
DCM is a federally funded program administrated by the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency. In partnership with the affected State, DCM enables a whole community approach through funding to voluntary, faith-based and nonprofit organizations. It promotes: (a) effective delivery of post-disaster case management services, (b) partner integration, (c) provider capacity building, and (d) state- level program development.
The program provides funding and technical assistance to ensure holistic services to disaster survivors. Participation in the DCM does not require FEMA registration. Disaster Case Management services under Catholic Charities, Diocese of Trenton can be accessed by calling 1-(877) 510-6762.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20130322d.html
