Public Statements
U.S. Navy Decision to Award Lockheed Martin Aegis Contract Acknowledges New Jersey as National Leader in Science and Technology
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 5, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

Calling today's announcement an affirmation of New Jersey's role as a national and international leader in science and technology, Governor Chris Christie congratulated Lockheed Martin on winning the U.S. Navy's Aegis Combat System Engineering Agent program contract. Lockheed Martin is the Navy's current manufacturer and provider of onboard ship radar systems, which are produced primarily at the company's Moorestown facility. The company employs about 4,000 workers in Moorestown and more than 1,300 at other New Jersey locations.
"With more scientists and engineers per square mile than anywhere in the world, it makes sense that the Navy will want to keep the development and manufacturing of its Aegis system right here in New Jersey," said Governor Christie. "This is very good news for Lockheed Martin and for New Jersey, which is proving again its place as a leader and home for innovation and growth for great companies with top-notch employees."
In December 2011, Governor Christie wrote to the Navy admiral in charge of Integrated Systems, noting the long history of Lockheed in New Jersey, and the company's decades-long role in the Navy's Aegis program, as well as the state's commitment to the defense-related business community.
Lt. Governor Kim Guadagno noted that, as part of New Jersey's ongoing commitment to help New Jersey businesses succeed, the New Jersey Business Action Center provided a comprehensive incentive proposal to Lockheed Martin. To support Lockheed Martin's bid, the New Jersey Economic Development Authority last year approved a $40 million Grow NJ incentive grant for new machinery and equipment and modifications and infrastructure improvements to Lockheed Martin's Moorestown facility.
"New Jersey was committed to Lockheed Martin, its employees and the Aegis program and is extremely proud of the Christie Administration's role in helping Lockheed position itself to win this critically important contract," said Lt. Governor Guadagno. "New Jersey can be proud of its place as a leader in science and technology and in keeping jobs right here."
New Jersey is also working with Lockheed Martin to create a New Jersey Advanced Research Technology and Talent Center, a partnership among the state, Lockheed Martin, and the state's higher education community. The center will enable academic researchers and Lockheed Martin's technologists to collaborate in developing advanced technologies, training and educational experiences.
"The collaboration with Lockheed Martin is a perfect example of how industry and higher education can work together on crucial projects," said Secretary of Higher Education Rochelle Hendricks. "The New Jersey Advanced Research Technology and Talent Center will attract and retain top talent and enhance our State's capacity to perform cutting edge research while increasing the potential to develop new commercial products. We look forward to future partnerships with the EDA and other key state agencies, so our colleges and universities can conduct research to drive innovation and benefit our State's economy."
"New Jersey has been a global leader in technology and innovation, and Lockheed Martin's decision to establish this R&D and talent center in our state is testament to the importance of collaboration between industry, government and academia," said Tracye McDaniel, president and CEO of Choose New Jersey. "Building those bridges is crucial to successful economic competitiveness and job creation today. It is partnerships like these that help companies like Lockheed Martin win important contracts and retain high-value jobs that are so vital to New Jersey."
Lockheed Martin's Moorestown facility is their largest in New Jersey. In addition, the company has several other locations in the state, including Atlantic City, Cherry Hill, Edison, Egg Harbor Township, Hightstown, Marlton, Mays Landing, Mount Laurel, Pleasantville, Teterboro and Tinton Falls. The company's facility in Cherry Hill also serves as headquarters for the Advanced Technology Laboratories.

Source: http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552013/approved/20130305b.html
