Public Statements
Governor Christie Strengthens Programs to Empower New Jersey's Most Vulnerable Citizens and Provide Critical Health Services
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: March 4, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

Acting on his commitment to deliver improved and expanded health services to New Jersey's most vulnerable citizens, Governor Chris Christie and Human Services Commissioner Jennifer Velez today visited the Metropolitan Family Health Network (MFHN) in Jersey City to outline how these programs provide critical health services and care for individuals and families who need it most. The program is one of 105 Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) sites in New Jersey that is supported with $50 million in funding in Governor Christie's Fiscal Year 2014 Budget to cover the costs of treating the uninsured. Since 2006, Metropolitan Family Health Network (MFHN) has provided quality, affordable healthcare to thousands of residents of Hudson County.
"Centers like Metropolitan Family Health Network demonstrate what we are trying to accomplish on the state level - to provide a comprehensive array of services for those in need in an efficient, effective manner that focuses on each individual's unique needs," said Governor Christie. "There's no doubt that community health centers play a significant role in providing healthcare access to New Jersey families who need it most. That's why our support remains at an all-time high, and with new programs being implemented, such as our Medicaid expansion, our ability to deliver preventive services will be even stronger."
Physicians and healthcare professionals at MFHN provide comprehensive services for children, adults and pregnant women, including a full service pharmacy and a dental suite. There are more than 50,000 patient visits a year to Metropolitan's three center sites - two of which are located in Jersey City and one other in West New York.
"FQHCs are a critical element to the health care infrastructure for under-insured and uninsured New Jersey residents," said Human Services Commissioner Jennifer Velez. "With the expansion of Medicaid, we are building on reforms to the program that were underway, emphasizing prevention and coordination of care so that clients get the services they need to stay healthy."







Source:
