Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces Aggressive Plan to Strengthen and Rebuild Jersey Shore's Sandy-Damaged Route 35
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Feb. 19, 2013
Location: Trenton, NJ

Taking action to repair and restore the Jersey shore's transportation system, Governor Chris Christie today announced an aggressive schedule to completely rebuild a 12.5-mile storm-damaged stretch of Route 35 along the Barnegat Peninsula in Ocean County. The highway, which serves as the primary north-south route along the Jersey Shore peninsula from Point Pleasant Beach to the entrance of Island Beach State Park, sustained severe damage during Superstorm Sandy and requires immediate attention so that residents and visitors can resume normal travel in Ocean County. The reconstruction project will rebuild this span of Route 35 in a stronger, more resilient manner, while also providing better drainage, a smoother driving surface, improved accommodations for pedestrians and bicyclists, and more economical repair and upkeep costs.
"The destruction wrought by Sandy is evident almost everywhere you look up and down Route 35, from Point Pleasant Beach to the entrance of Island Beach State Park. In the days after the storm, our transportation professionals did truly remarkable work along the entire highway, removing thousands of truckloads of debris and sand to make way for emergency responders, contractors and homeowners. As we have marked the rebuilding of our homes and businesses throughout the state, we now look forward to rebuilding Route 35 stronger and better," said Governor Christie. "Today, we're announcing an investment of more than $200 million in federal highway funds to rebuild this stretch of Route 35. This commitment demonstrates the determination we have to rebuild after epic devastation and heartbreaking losses as residents, businesses and this Administration work together to restore the Shore in ways that will help us all stand stronger."
The New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) expects to seek bids on the first of three highway construction contracts next month, with shovels in the ground this summer. The project has been divided into three geographic sections, with contracts for the other two sections advertised for bids by July, 2013.

Source:
