Public Statements
Governor Christie Announces Ratification of American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Contract
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: Oct. 1, 2012
Location: Trenton, NJ

Governor Chris Christie today announced that the state's second largest civilian public employee negotiating unit, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), ratified a four-year contract that appropriately holds salary increases to a level reflecting the state's fiscal realities and continuing budget constraints. AFSCME represents nearly 9,000 employees.
The negotiated settlement, which was ratified by AFSCME Council 1 on September 12, clears the way for a new labor contract retroactive to July 1, 2011. Its financial terms are identical to those reached with locals of other of the state's civilian public employee negotiating units, including that of the Communications Workers of America, representing approximately 35,000 employees, the largest public employee negotiating unit, as well as the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers and Service Employees International Union. The Christie Administration also previously announced a new four year agreement reached with PBA 105. The across-the-board salary increases in the ratified AFSCME agreement, are as follows: July 1, 2011 -- 0 percent; July 1, 2012 -- 0 percent; July 1, 2013 -- 1 percent , and July 1, 2014 -- 1.75 percent.
"As we work to return New Jersey to a stable and sustainable fiscal position for the long-term benefit of all our residents and taxpayers, I appreciate the union membership's collective understanding that we all must work together to achieve those goals for our state and its future," said Governor Christie.
As Governor Christie has previously noted, he has similar expectations from the other public employee unions with which the Administration continues to negotiate labor contracts.
The agreements reached by the Christie administration to date cover approximately 54,000 employees.

Source:
