Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie's Remarks at Jewish Federation of Greater MetroWest New Jersey Launch
Statement
By: Chris Christie
Date: July 31, 2012
Location: Unknown

Governor Christie: Thank you very much. Ambassador [Aharoni], thank you for being here and Max [Kleinman], thank you for the introduction, and to all of you congratulations. This is a great night, and I'm thrilled to be here to help celebrate with you the bringing together of these two great organizations to make one even stronger, better one over the course of the next number of years. I want to thank all of the elected officials who are here today. It's important that New Jersey elected officials at every level show their respect and support for organizations like this one that mean so much to the culture of our state, to the business world that we have here in New Jersey, and to the raising of our families. It's extraordinarily important. I want to give special thanks to the Speaker for being here tonight. She has been an extraordinary partner with me and the Senate President to attempt to get things done here in New Jersey, to have a productive relationship regardless of party, and so it's always great to share a stage with the Speaker of the Assembly. Speaker Oliver deserves our thanks and our support tonight, so thank you Speaker for being here.
As the Ambassador mentioned earlier today, I signed into law legislation denying state and local public contracts to any person or entity who's engaged in investment activity in the energy or finance sectors of Iran. The federal government's actions to implement sanctions against Iran came in response to Iran's continued pursuit of an illicit nuclear program, unconventional weapons development, a deteriorating human rights situation, support for international terrorism, and a continued threat to the State of Israel. Those of us who care about the future of freedom and democracy in the world understand that despots must be met with unified opposition by those who believe in freedom and liberty and prosperity, and America has no greater friend than the State of Israel and each and every elected official who has a position of responsibility in the United States should be standing up and doing exactly the same thing that the elected officials you see here along with me have now done in New Jersey. We should be standing with Israel and standing against the type of tyranny and the attempted development of nuclear capability by Iran that will destabilize the entire world and lead us to even more conflict, and so we need to stand with Israel and New Jersey will continue to do so.

Source:
