Public Statements
Governor Chris Christie Calls on Legislature to Join Him and Immediately Act to Deliver Middle-Class Tax Relief
Press Release
By: Chris Christie
Date: July 2, 2012
Location: Unknown

Continuing his commitment to put in place an immediate tax relief plan for New Jersey families, Governor Chris Christie today conditionally vetoed A-3201, preventing a tax increase and sending a responsible, middle-class tax relief plan back to the Legislature to be acted on immediately. With his veto, the Governor again affirmed that the days of endless tax increases on New Jerseyans are over and urged members of both parties to support tax relief through a compromise proposal that is in line with bipartisan efforts and that makes relief a reality today.
"Once again, we have an opportunity to show the rest of the nation that New Jersey is the model for effective governance in America. Now is the time to stop the posturing and gamesmanship and instead deliver tax relief to the people who need and deserve it -- the middle-class families of our state," said Governor Christie. "This requires putting people before party and accepting that the days of tax increases that killed our economy are over. Lowering taxes on the most overtaxed people in the nation is the new reality and our obligation after years of sacrifice. I urge the Legislature to join me in this effort by acting immediately on this bill that provides the path forward to meaningful, middle-class tax relief, economic growth and competitiveness."
Governor Christie returned the bill to the legislature with amendments to deliver tax relief for New Jersey families, rather than another tax increase. The amended legislation will provide New Jersey residents with household incomes up to $400,000 an income tax credit equal to 10 percent of their annual property tax bill for the prior year, up to $1,000 when fully phased in after four years. Net-profits from a trade or business (derived from federal Schedule C income) will not be counted against the household income threshold.
At the same time, the Governor's proposal includes a full restoration of the Earned Income Tax Credit proposed in his January State of the State Address. At 25 percent of the federal tax credit, the state EITC will be fully implemented in taxable year 2013, providing a $550 benefit to the average eligible beneficiary - struggling working families who most need the help.









Source:
