Public Statements
Deal Issues 2016 Veto Statements
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Unknown

Veto Number 1
HB 757: Domestic relations; religious officials shall not be required to perform marriage ceremonies in violation of their legal right; provide
House Bill 757 Veto Statement Previously Released
Veto Number 2
HB 59 creates a blanket waiver of sovereign immunity, with limited exceptions, as to claims seeking a declaratory judgment or injunctive relief against the state and local governments. This sweeping waiver of sovereign immunity would allow unprecedented judicial intervention into daily management decisions entrusted to the executive branch of government. While the concept of sovereign immunity is relatively simple on its face, it is complex in application and it is likely that HB 59 would have unforeseen ramifications that would impede government operations. While the purported purpose of HB 59 was to legislatively address a recent judicial decision, the waiver of sovereign immunity contained therein is not sufficiently limited. As I have not been persuaded of the need for this comprehensive waiver of sovereign immunity, I VETO HB 59.
Veto Number 3
HB 216 expands the eligibility for workers' compensation benefits to firefighters diagnosed with cancer, allowing such benefits for any firefighter in Georgia if a medical expert can prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the cancer was caused from exposure to any risk factor while performing work related duties. Firefighters play an integral role in keeping Georgians safe, their unselfish everyday sacrifice does not go unnoticed by this office and they will continue to have my support. However, while the authors' intent of this bill is respected, I am concerned that codifying an exception for one occupation at this relatively low standard of proof with no time limitation on diagnosis or restriction on eligible types of cancer is a broad solution for a problem not yet abundantly demonstrated in Georgia. The Association County Commissioners of Georgia have also expressed concern that the shift in this burden of proof may potentially lead to tremendous uncertainty in projecting the future financial liability for workers' compensation. Similarly, the Georgia Municipal Association is concerned that HB 216 makes no distinction between paid and volunteer firefighters. Paid employees are automatically granted workers' compensation coverage, while cities and counties must affirmatively vote to include volunteer firefighters in their coverage. Finally, since I took office, I am unaware of any firefighter that has filed a workers' compensation claim for a cancer diagnosis. Signing this bill into law has the potential to exhaust our State Board of Workers' Compensation and our state judicial system with litigation at the expense of our cities and counties. For these reasons, I VETO HB 216.

Source:
