Public Statements
Deal: Mohawk Industries to Create 200 Jobs in Dalton
Statement
By: Nathan Deal
Date: April 21, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Mohawk Industries, the world's largest flooring manufacturer, will expand its existing vinyl flooring operations in Dalton-Whitfield County. This project will significantly increase the company's current U.S. luxury vinyl tile (LVT) manufacturing capacity. The $100 million capital investment in infrastructure and equipment will generate approximately 200 jobs for the region.
"Mohawk's continued expansion in Georgia underscores how a premier flooring manufacturer helps Georgia's entire floor covering industry remain competitive," said Deal. "This is a great indicator of the strength of the carpet and floor covering industry. We look forward to Mohawk's continued job creation and investment in our state."
The project will increase Mohawk's production of flexible and rigid LVT (WPC) products for both residential and commercial applications. Mohawk currently employs more than 34,000 individuals worldwide and approximately 10,250 in Georgia.
"Mohawk currently is starting up its Dalton LVT plant, which will be operating at full capacity by the end of 2016," said Brian Carson, president of Mohawk Industries' Flooring North America segment. "This major investment to expand our U.S. LVT production will meet increased demand for our unique products and enhance Mohawk's position as the global leader in LVT, the world's fastest growing flooring category."
Mohawk acquired the IVC Group in 2015, positioning the company at the forefront of the global vinyl flooring market. The acquisition added state-of-the-art manufacturing capabilities in both in Europe and North America, including the world's largest, most efficient LVT production lines in Dalton-Whitfield County.
"As the flooring industry leader, we will bring the same exceptional design and performance features to the LVT that we have in our other product categories," said Carson. "Combined with our industry-leading national distribution system, this expansion will provide our customers with the broadest product offering and the highest level of service in the LVT category."
"This is the third major investment on this site and this expansion will complete the build-out of the property that we prepared for IVC back in 2010," said Whitfield County Commission Chairman Mike Babb. "This is proof that the economic development process works and that the effort was worthwhile. We are very pleased that the company continues to grow and thrive and we appreciate all that Mohawk does to help our community."
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) regional project manager Stephanie Scearce represented the Global Commerce division in partnership with Mohawk Industries, Dalton-Whitfield Joint Development Authority and Dalton Utilities.
"We are excited about Mohawk's choice to expand their operations in Dalton-Whitfield County," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Existing industry accounts for a major portion of the state's investment and job opportunities, and we look forward to working with Mohawk and our partners in Dalton-Whitfield County to ensure they have the resources they need to continue to deepen their economic footprint here."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-04-21/deal-mohawk-industries-create-200-jobs-dalton
