Public Statements
Deal: Edencrete to Create More Than 250 Jobs in Augusta
Statement
By: Nathan Deal
Date: April 13, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that EdenCrete Industries Inc. (ECI), a manufacturer of carbon nanotube enriched concrete solutions, will establish its global manufacturing headquarters operation in Augusta. This project represents the creation of more than 250 new jobs and an overall investment of $67 million in the local community.
"When global manufacturing companies like EdenCrete Industries Inc. choose to locate to Georgia, it is a testament to the international reputation of our top-ranked business climate," said Deal. "I am confident ECI will benefit from our leading talent and robust industry network in order to find the support it needs to successfully serve its customers around the world. I am proud to welcome ECI to Georgia."
ECI is a wholly owned subsidiary of Australian-based Eden Energy Limited. With this business venture, ECI will expand the manufacturing of its proprietary product, EdenCrete™, in the U.S.
"We selected Georgia, and in particular Augusta, to establish our global manufacturing base, not only because of the government's great support for industry as is evidenced today and Georgia's highly efficient transport access to the both the North American and international export markets, but also, because of the warmth of its people, the quality of its workforce and the attractive standard of living and opportunities that it offers our future employees," said Greg Solomon, chairman of Eden Energy.
EdenCrete™ is ECI's carbon-strengthened concrete additive which significantly improves a wide range of performance characteristics of concrete. The product is suitable for use in the construction and maintenance of concrete roads, bridges and other infrastructure networks.
"Augusta-Richmond County welcomes ECI to our continually growing business community," said Augusta Mayor Hardie Davis. "Their innovative products and process is exactly the kind of company that finds the perfect location in Augusta."
The Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) has already approved the use of EdenCrete™ in its 24-hour highway concrete repair mix and plans a further field trial of EdenCrete™ for use in new concrete highway construction. EdenCrete™ also has the potential for use in other concrete applications including the construction of high-rise buildings, marine and coastal structures, water storage pipelines and pre-fabricated concrete structures and products.
"ECI combines a long-time manufacturing process with new age technology innovations, and we are proud to welcome them to the Augusta Corporate Park," said Augusta Economic Development Authority Chairman Henry Ingram. "Walt Sprouse and Scott Poag worked with the company, the Georgia Department of Economic Development, Augusta Utilities, Mayor Hardie Davis, the Augusta-Richmond County Commission and many others to make this day a reality."
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) project manager David Dunagan represented Georgia throughout this project in partnership with the Augusta Economic Development Authority, Augusta-Richmond County Commission, City of Augusta, Augusta Utilities, GDOT and Cranston Engineering Group, P.C.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-04-13/deal-edencrete-create-more-250-jobs-augusta
