Public Statements
Deal: HD Supply to Create 500 Jobs In Cobb County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 10, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that HD Supply Holdings, Inc., one of the largest industrial distributors in North America, will create 500 new jobs and invest more than $100 million in Cobb County throughout the next 5 years.
"Our pro-business climate, highly-skilled workforce and manufacturing infrastructure continue to attract companies like HD Supply to Georgia," said Deal. "The company's expansion will allow them to continue growing as a leader in the industrial distribution industry. I am confident that HD Supply will benefit from opening a new facility in our state and further prove why Georgia is a top destination for job creators."
The new jobs include a range of positions in sales, merchandising, operations, supply chain management, information technology, and finance, among others. HD Supply currently employs approximately 200 associates at its Atlanta headquarters. The new HD Supply Leadership Development Center and headquarters building will consolidate existing HD Supply and HD Supply Facilities Maintenance field support organizations.
"HD Supply is thrilled to deepen its commitment to and partnership with Cobb County and the state of Georgia," said HD Supply Chairman, President and CEO Joe DeAngelo. "This strategic growth investment establishes our HD Supply Leadership Development Center, which will accelerate growth as we attract and develop talent, drive customer-centric partnerships and extend our One Team culture."
HD Supply provides a broad range of products and value-added services to more than 500,000 customers in maintenance, repair and operations, water infrastructure and residential and non-residential construction markets. The company's leading businesses include HD Supply Facilities Maintenance, HD Supply Waterworks, and HD Supply Construction & Industrial - White Cap.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-03-10/deal-hd-supply-create-500-jobs-cobb-county
