Public Statements
Deal Announces Sixth Record Year in International Trade
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 10, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that the state experienced a record increase in total trade for the sixth consecutive calendar year, maintaining its national ranking as the 11th-largest exporting state and 7th-largest importing state.
"We proudly offer access to the fastest-growing port in the nation, the world's busiest airport and a collaborative business environment unmatched by other states," said Deal. "These assets provide a gateway for Georgia companies to thrive in global markets, and Georgia's international representation is well-aligned to support them. Today's news further demonstrates that international trade remains an important economic driver for our state."
In 2015, the state's imports increased by 5.7 percent to $88.55 billion and companies in Georgia exported to 217 unique countries and territories--representing a $38 billion sum. Georgia led the nation in the export of chemical woodpulp, poultry, kraft paper and paperboard, carpets, Kaolin and chemical products such as insecticides. The top export industries were aircraft/spacecraft, non-electric machinery, non-railway vehicles, electrical machinery and paper/paperboard, making up 56 percent of Georgia's total exports.
Georgia's top 10 export destinations accounted for 56 percent of total exports; the top five export countries accounted for 41 percent. Canada remains Georgia's largest export partner, followed by Mexico, China, the United Kingdom and Germany.
"Georgia's global connectivity is a critical factor in the state's competitiveness and economic development," said Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) Commissioner Chris Carr. "We know that international trade means quality jobs and investment for our state, and our international trade team will continue to work with exporters, communities and private-sector partners to create new market opportunities for Georgia products and services."
The state's imports outpaced exports by approximately $50 billion. Georgia ranked first in the Southeast in dollar value of imports. The state's top five import partners were China, Germany, South Korea, Mexico and Japan, accounting for 61 percent of total imports.
To celebrate companies who have entered into new international markets, Deal will recognize the 2015 GLOBE (Georgia Launching Opportunities by Exporting) Award winners at the Go Global reception on March 8. For more details on the event, visit Georgia.org/GoGlobal.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-02-10/deal-announces-sixth-record-year-international-trade
