Public Statements
Deal Announces Additional Investment in Medical Schools
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 10, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced the state will invest an additional $70 million in two medical schools as a result of a settlement agreement offer from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The recipients, Morehouse School of Medicine and Mercer University, were selected based on their continued efforts to place graduates in rural and underserved areas throughout the state.
"The state should receive these funds as a result of a health care lawsuit settlement regarding Medicaid reimbursements," said Deal. "It is only fitting that we in turn invest this money in health care education programs, particularly those that prioritize placing primary care physician graduates in high-demand areas throughout the state. Likewise, this funding fulfills a decades-old commitment made to Mercer University by the state. With this investment in its health care program, we are making good on that promise. Finally, we look forward to continue working with these two medical schools to advance their health care training and delivery efforts."
"Morehouse School of Medicine is extremely pleased and honored that Gov. Deal continues to recognize the significant contributions that we are making to increase the number of primary care providers who practice in underserved urban and rural communities in the state of Georgia," said President and Dean of Morehouse School of Medicine Dr. Valerie Montgomery Rice. "This additional investment from our state lawmakers will allow us to continue to increase the enrollment of our medical school and residency programs, as well as ensure increased access to innovative and critical health services for the residents of our state."
"We are grateful to Gov. Deal and members of the General Assembly for their ongoing and steadfast commitment to improving the delivery of healthcare to Georgians in rural and underserved areas of our State, including exploring new and innovative approaches to meeting rural health challenges, said Mercer University President William D. Underwood. Mercer University is committed to use these funds to make a profound difference in the education of future physicians from Georgia. These funds will directly support future physicians who demonstrate a commitment to providing primary care in areas of the greatest need."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-02-10/deal-announces-additional-investment-medical-schools
