Public Statements
Deal Touts Economic Impact of Georgia Tourism Industry
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal was joined by leaders from Georgia's tourism industry for the annual Tourism, Hospitality & Arts Day at the Capitol to highlight the $57.1 billion impact of tourism on Georgia's economy. Representatives from the industry presented Deal with a check representing the $3 billion in state and local tax revenue generated from tourism-related expenditures.
"Georgia's tourism industry plays a vital role in our states economic well-being," said Deal. "This crucial sector makes up 10.2 percent of the state's entire workforce and has a positive effect on nearly every community in Georgia. This success of our tourism industry is a clear indicator that Georgia is on the minds of travelers across the globe."
Deal also unveiled the cover of the official 2016 state travel guide which celebrates the "Year of Georgia Music." The full-color, magazine-sized guide spotlights the state's rich music heritage, world-class venues and unique festivals and features Leesburg native and country music superstar, Luke Bryan, along with many other musicians throughout the state.
"Tourism spurs economic growth and creates jobs in Georgia, making it a vital component in our economic development success," said Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) commissioner Chris Carr. "Georgia is home to an abundance of unique experiences that set us apart from other destinations."
The Year of Georgia Music will be featured on multiple marketing platforms including the ExploreGeorgia.org website, social media channels, marketing materials, advertising opportunities and special events.
"Georgia musicians laid the foundations for many of the music genres that visitors from around the world now recognize as distinctly American music," said GDEcD deputy commissioner for tourism Kevin Langston. "The Year of Georgia Music allows us to shine a spotlight on these artists and on the places that inspired them to create their unique sounds -- and also the places where travelers and locals alike can discover tomorrow's breakout artists performing today."
The state's official travel guide provides visitors with information on Georgia's tourism assets including trip ideas, attractions, accommodations and events. More than 700,000 guides are distributed annually through the state's 12 Visitor Information Centers, the ExploreGeorgia.org website, travel and trade shows and 1-800-VISIT GA. GDEcD partnered with Atlanta Magazine Custom Media, the award-winning publisher of Atlanta Magazine and Southbound Magazine, to produce the travel guide.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-01-26/deal-touts-economic-impact-georgia-tourism-industry
