Public Statements
Deal Announces Major Transportation Investments
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 12, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal, joined by legislators and Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) representatives, today released a comprehensive infrastructure maintenance plan made possible through the Transportation Funding Act of 2015. The announcement included an 18-month project list, representing a $2.2 billion investment, and a 10-year list, representing more than $10 billion in investment. Deal also launched an accountability measure, available on www.GAroads.org, to track spending and progress.
"One year ago, I stood before the General Assembly and urged members to prioritize Georgia's transportation needs," said Deal. "In order to maintain our roads and bridges, improve congestion and accommodate the movement of freight traffic, we could no longer afford to kick the can down the road. Legislators on both sides of the aisle took action, working together to pass legislation addressing these critical needs. Today, we are delivering on our promise.
Through the leadership of GDOT Commissioner Russell McMurry, Planning Director Jay Roberts and State Transportation Board Chairwoman Emily Dunn, we are delivering results for Georgians in every corner of the state. In fact, for every dollar invested, Georgians will see four dollars in return. Over the next 18 months, nearly 60 percent of the projects contracted will be for maintenance of our roads and bridges. We are also upholding our promise of transparency through the GA Roads website, which provides clarity through features unprecedented in state history. This infrastructure investment will continue delivering dividends for years to come and keep Georgia a top destination for business and families."
"We are excited that we now have the ability to start addressing the back log of work to Georgia's critical infrastructure and increase preventative maintenance across the state," said GDOT Commissioner Russell McMurry. "Over the next 18 months, GDOT will deliver contracts that resurface nearly 2,500 miles of roads, replace more than 100 bridges, and provide critical rehabilitation to more than 300 bridges. Our first priority is to take care of the existing transportation system which is reflected in our vision for the next decade and beyond. Using the recent successes of the innovative Design Build and Finance method on the I-285/400 project and Northwest Corridor project as a blueprint, we will continue to deploy similar strategies to improve people and freight mobility throughout our state."
"As the GDOT board chair, I am proud of the historic level of cooperation among the department and board, the General Assembly and the governor that has led us to this day," said Chairwoman Emily Dunn. "We are very appreciative of the hard work and leadership of our governor and the legislature which has paved the way for increased investment in our roads and bridges. At the end of the day, we all share a common duty to the people of Georgia, and we look forward to improving the quality of their transportation system for years to come."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-01-12/deal-announces-major-transportation-investments
