Public Statements
Deal: Aspen Aerogels to Create More Than 100 Jobs in Bulloch County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Nov. 9, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Aspen Aerogels, Inc., a leading provider of high-performance aerogel insulation, will create more than 100 jobs and invest more than $70 million in Statesboro.  
 
"Aspen Aerogels is a major addition to Georgia's thriving technology industry," said Deal. "The company's Statesboro location offers close proximity to our top-notch transportation infrastructure and some of our first-class academic institutions. I am confident that our highly-skilled workforce and competitive resources will be uniquely beneficial for Aspen's growth in Georgia."
 
Aspen Aerogels manufactures energy infrastructure insulation used in refineries, petrochemical plants, LNG facilities, power plants and related operations. Aspen Aerogels manufactures its products in the U.S. and exports more than 60 percent of annual production to international markets.
 
"The factors we considered to choose Bulloch County as the site for our second manufacturing facility were compelling," said Don Young, President and CEO of Aspen Aerogels. "The 43-acre Statesboro site is served by rail and provides excellent access to the Port of Savannah. The City of Statesboro and the surrounding region is served by a well-developed technical education system featuring Georgia Southern University, Ogeechee Technical College and East Georgia State College. In addition, the region is home to a strong, available workforce and will provide Aspen with secure and low-cost utilities and good access to critical raw materials. We also received great support from the State of Georgia, Bulloch County and the City of Statesboro. We are excited to become an active member of the local community."
 
Aspen Aerogels currently employs more than 250 personnel at facilities in Northborough, Mass.,  and East Providence, R.I.
 
"The Statesboro-Bulloch County community is proud to have Aspen Aerogels choose to locate here," said Garrett Nevil, Chairman of the Bulloch County Board of Commissioners. "The decision is a great example of our community's team working together to bring this company and its quality jobs to our area."
 
"The City of Statesboro welcomes Aspen Aerogels to our progressive and business friendly community," said Statesboro Mayor Jan Moore. "We believe that Aspen will be a great success story for our community."
 
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) project manager Wylly Harrison represented the Global Commerce division throughout this project in collaboration with the Development Authority of Bulloch County, Georgia Quick Start, Georgia EMC and the Georgia Ports Authority.
 
"Being a part of the No. 1 business climate in the nation means access to a skilled workforce, a collaborative group of state and local partners, a well-connected infrastructure and a high quality of life," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "We continue to attract top-tier prospects, like Aspen Aerogels, because of this unique combination, and we look forward to working with them to build upon their existing success in the thermal management industry."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-11-09/deal-aspen-aerogels-create-more-100-jobs-bulloch-county
