Public Statements
Deal Launches Georgia WorkSmart
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 26, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today launched Georgia WorkSmart, a work-based learning initiative, at the King's Hawaiian facility in Flowery Branch. This initiative aims to meet employers' workforce needs by developing and implementing customized training programs through apprenticeships, internships and cooperative education opportunities. King's Hawaiian is one of 30 companies to submit letters of commitment and will hire 25 apprentices trained through the program.
 
"Building upon the High Demand Career Initiative, Georgia WorkSmart is another step in ensuring our current and future workforce is prepared to meet employer needs. This program will help lead the way in establishing effective partnerships between businesses and educators to better prepare jobseekers for employment opportunities throughout the state," said Deal. "This collaboration between the public and private sectors will continue making our state more attractive for businesses."
 
This initiative is a collaborative partnership between the Workforce Division of the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, the Technical College System of Georgia and other state agencies.
 
"We continue to hear from the business community about a need for more work-based learning opportunities to strengthen their current and future workforce," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Georgia WorkSmart allows businesses to customize training programs to meet their specific workforce needs."
 
At the launch of Georgia WorkSmart, representatives from the U.S. Department of Labor announced an approximately $3 million American Apprenticeship Initiative Grant awarded to GDEcD. The grant will provide funding to create apprenticeship programs related to advanced manufacturing in Georgia.
 
"Our goal is to supply employers with a workforce trained for today's business climate," said Technical College System of Georgia Commissioner Gretchen Corbin. "We look forward to working with companies to create detailed, customized curricula that focus on the specific skills that will allow the trainee to succeed in that work environment."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-10-29/deal-launches-georgia-worksmart
