Public Statements
Deal: Linzer Products Corp. to Create 200 Jobs in Candler County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 20, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that Linzer Products Corp., a leading producer and provider of painting accessories, will create 200 new jobs and invest $4 million in Candler County by 2016.
 
"Our pro-business climate, highly-skilled workforce and manufacturing infrastructure continue to attract top-notch companies like Linzer to Georgia," said Deal. "Metter is an ideal location that will allow Linzer to continue growing as a leader in the paint manufacturing industry. With this new facility, Linzer is utilizing Georgia's competitive assets while yielding economic benefits for the Candler County community."
 
At full capacity, the new facility will house a 222,000-square-foot manufacturing and distribution center, becoming Linzer's largest operation in the U.S.
 
"This investment is key to meeting the needs of our customers, allowing us to produce high-quality products with greater efficiency and to deliver those products quickly throughout the Southeast region of the United States," said Brent Swenson, president of Linzer Products. "We're also pleased to contribute to the economic growth of this community."
 
Linzer has existing operations in California, New York, New Hampshire and Illinois, and the Metter facility will be the first enterprise in the Southeast. 
 
"We are excited to welcome Linzer to Metter and Candler County," said City of Metter Mayor Billy Trapnell. "They are a great international corporation that produces quality products used worldwide. To have them locate their newest plant here, which will be their largest in the United States, is wonderful news. It has been a pleasure to work with their entire team in reaching this decision. We are confident that the Linzer products made in "Metter' will without a doubt be not only "better', but the best in the paint products industry."
 
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) Assistant Director of Entrepreneur & Small Business Development, Ryan Waldrep, supported the company on behalf of the state. Other partners include the Candler County Industrial Development Authority, supported by Hannah Mullins, and Georgia's Workforce Division. 
 
"We are thrilled that Linzer made the decision to build their new facility in Candler County," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "We work hard to put forth a unified effort at every level in order to bring quality jobs to Georgia, and we are proud to be a part of the team that successfully brought this great company to our state."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-10-20/deal-linzer-products-corp-create-200-jobs-candler-county
