Public Statements
Deal: ADP to Create 450 Jobs in Augusta
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 15, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that ADP, a global provider of cloud-based human capital management will create 450 new jobs and invest more than $20 million over the next few years.
"ADP's decision to expand their Augusta facility is a great credit to our state's established infrastructure for high-tech companies," said Deal. "Augusta is at the forefront of establishing itself as a hub for growing technology companies. With this expansion, ADP is a part of a group of innovative companies that have invested in Georgia to utilize some of the nation's brightest talent and benefit from our state's competitive technological resources."
 
To meet growing market demands, ADP will add 60,000 square feet to the existing building, which currently employs 1,019 associates. The newly created jobs will include management and non-management positions. With the facility operating at full capacity ADP will continue to streamline human resource management protocol for small to multinational sized businesses. 
 
"ADP established operations in Augusta in April of 2007 to serve clients across North America. Our expansion to the Augusta Solution Center is based upon the continued success in attracting top talent which supports our Human Capital Management products and adds value to the client experience," said Dave Brendza, ADP Vice President and General Manager of the ADP Augusta location. "At ADP, we are confident the diverse talent pools which feed our workforce, remain abundant in this geography. We would also like to recognize our community partnerships for their continued support as ADP expands in Augusta." 
 
Founded in 1949, ADP serves over 630,000 customers in more than 100 countries.
 
"Our organization helped to bring ADP to Augusta nearly eight years ago, and it was a game changer for our Information Technology status and workforce," said Henry Ingram, Chairman of the Augusta Economic Development Authority. "ADP has been an outstanding member of the Augusta community, and we were pleased to work with Adela Kelley of the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) in bringing this expansion to Augusta. ADP helped us to coin our slogan "When it comes to workforce, companies come to Augusta'."
 
GDEcD senior project manager Adela Kelley represented the state and worked with the Augusta Economic Development Authority on this project.
 
"One of Georgia's greatest economic development assets is to be able to offer companies access to a highly-skilled, quality-trained pool of labor," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Augusta's recent success in the information technology sector has been a win-win for the state as this area has become a magnet for high-profile companies and talent. We are thrilled that ADP has been so successful in Augusta, and we look forward to seeing them grow with this new expansion."
 
Source:
