Public Statements
Deal Streamlines Agencies to Enhance Criminal Justice Reforms
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 5, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that the Department of Community Supervision (DCS), created this year as a part of Georgia's criminal justice reform efforts, will assume responsibility for the Governor's Office of Transition, Support and Reentry (GOTSR). With this transition, GOTSR will continue working to ensure successful implementation of reentry initiatives throughout the state.
"This integration is another step forward in reforming Georgia's criminal justice system," said Deal. "Under the umbrella of the Department of Community Supervision, the Governor's Office of Transition, Support and Reentry will continue its critical role in providing assistance to returning citizens and their communities while reducing our recidivism rate. By streamlining services, eliminating redundancies and enhancing communication throughout state government, we ensure a better system of oversight."
DCS Commissioner Michael Nail will serve as interim director of the reentry office. GOTSR was established in 2013 to develop and implement a systematic reentry plan for returning citizens and their communities.
"The reentry initiatives we've employed have already begun improving outcomes and providing support for those in our criminal justice system," said Nail. "The realignment of the Department of Community Supervision and the Governor's Office of Transition, Support and Reentry services will enhance our ability to better serve nonviolent offenders while saving Georgians money. The resources and knowledge both agencies have are invaluable to our efforts in advancing criminal justice reforms in Georgia."
As a result of this consolidation, Jay Neal will join the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council as criminal justice liaison. 

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-10-05/deal-streamlines-agencies-enhance-criminal-justice-reforms
