Public Statements
Deal: Sandler AG to Create More Than 140 Jobs in Houston County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today during an economic development mission to Germany that Sandler AG, a German textile supplier, will complete construction of a manufacturing plant in Perry. This represents an investment of more than $30 million and will create more than 140 new jobs in Houston County.
"Sandler's leadership team in Germany is taking advantage of a significant opportunity for growth in Georgia," said Deal. "We have the capability to provide them with access to a skilled workforce, a distribution-friendly location and a strong pro-business climate. These factors were key in Sandler's decision to come to Georgia, and I look forward to seeing the positive impact this project will have on our state."
Sandler is a privately-held, family-owned company that supplies textiles to international manufacturers, including a number of American Fortune 500 companies. The new Georgia facility will function as a production plant, warehouse and base for national sales and distribution. Sandler will begin recruiting employees and filling jobs for the facility in early 2016.
"Establishing a new non-wovens manufacturing plant in the U.S. was an important decision from a strategic point of view and one of the most important steps in our company history," said Sandler CEO Dr. Christian Heinrich Sandler. "Establishing a presence in Houston County will allow us to answer to the increasing importance of the North American markets and to account for the growing demand from outside Europe."
With about 650 employees and annual sales of approximately $346 million worldwide, Sandler maintains a strong presence in markets for companies that produce hygiene, automotive, filtration, construction and engineering, home textile and fashion products. The corporation is one of Germany's highly-valued and efficient "Mittelstand" companies that focus on the optimal production of single product types. 
"Houston County's central location between the Port of Savannah and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport was a key element in Sandler's decision to choose Georgia for their new operation," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "In addition to Georgia's world-class logistical assets, our state, local and private-sector relationships confirmed to Sandler that Houston County is where they can be most successful going forward."
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) Senior Project Manager Nico Wijnberg is Georgia's representive for the project and has worked closely with Electric Cities of Georgia and the Houston County Development Authority throughout development and early construction.
"We are proud to have a company of this caliber locate in our Georgia Ready for Accelerated Development certified industrial park," said Houston County Development Authority Chairman Mark Byrd. "This project is an example of our community and a company coming together with the ultimate goal of bringing quality jobs to our citizens. We are excited to see the relationship that has evolved with Sandler over the past few months continue to flourish."
Germany is one of Georgia's top two investor nations and holds the top ranking in terms of company locations. German companies operate nearly 500 facilities in Georgia, employing 23,250 people. Georgia's exports to Germany totaled $1.33 billion last year. Georgia and Bavaria are members of the Regional Leaders Summit, a strategic alliance of seven regions from four continents that promote the exchange of best practices for mutual business topics.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-09-25/deal-sandler-ag-create-more-140-jobs-houston-county
