Public Statements
Deal: August Tax Revenues Up 9.4 percent
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 14, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that the Global Commerce division of the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) helped create a total of 26,951 new jobs and generate $4.75 billion in investment during FY15. This growth is a result of the expansion or relocation by 329 companies including those in software and technology, aerospace and food processing sectors.  
"These figures represent real economic growth and employment opportunities for Georgians," said Deal. "The state's pro-business climate, world-class infrastructure and highly skilled workforce makes Georgia stand above the competition for companies seeking relocation and expansion. Our economic development agency's top ranking is a testament to the business environment we have established to create jobs and promote investment in Georgia."
GDEcD figures show that Georgia's software and technology industry grew new job opportunities by 128 percent and increased investment by 219 percent over the previous fiscal year. Companies headquartered in Georgia saw a 110 percent increase in job growth and increased investment by 374 percent. The food processing industry saw a 21 percent increase in relocation or expansion announcements and a 28 percent increase in jobs. A 20 percent increase in projects for Georgia's aerospace industry resulted in a 13 percent increase for jobs in the sector.
Businesses already located in Georgia accounted for three quarters of the total economic development announcements (244 of the 329 projects) in FY15. These companies produced 75 percent of the overall investment ($3.58 billion of $4.75 billion) and 63 percent of the total jobs created (17,004 of 26,951). Companies new to the state accounted for 25 percent of investment and 37 percent of the total jobs created.
International projects had a significant impact in Georgia in FY15. These companies accounted for 35 percent of the total investment and accounted for 27 percent of the new jobs announced by GDEcD. The total number of jobs created by internationally-based companies grew 152 percent and Germany-based companies' investment grew 15 percent. The automotive industry has seen particularly strong growth, with announcements from Mercedes-Benz, Häring (an automotive supplier in Hartwell), Geiger (an automotive supplier in Suwanee) and NIFCO KTW (an automotive supplier in Toccoa).
"Our state has had an exceptional year in creating jobs and investment opportunities because of our partnership approach to economic development," said Chris Carr Commissioner of GDEcD. "Under the leadership of Governor Deal, our economic development partners, including local governments, state agencies, utility partners, chambers and Georgia businesses, worked hand in hand to keep Georgia a top state in the nation to do business."
 GDEcD received numerous honors and disitinctions including being named the No. 1 "best in class" state-level economic development agency in the country at the International Economic Development Council Annual Conference. GDEcD also received a Gold Shovel award by Area Development Magazine for the effectiveness of Georgia's overall economic development. Additionally, Keurig Green Mountain Inc. was a recipient of a 2015 CiCi Corporate Investment award from Trade & Industry Development.
During FY15, GDEcD expanded efforts to provide small businesses and entrepreneurs with basic information and resources. Deal also proclaimed Feb. 16-20 as Georgia's first-ever Small Business Week to celebrate the achievements made by small businesses. GDEcD also unveiled a microsite for small businesses -- www.georgia.org/smallbusiness -- to coincide with the state's renewed focus on supporting small businesses in Georgia.
"Fiscal year 2015 was a great year for our Global Commerce team with projects of regional significance in nearly every corner of the state," said GDEcD Deputy Commissioner Tom Croteau. "I am so proud of our Global Commerce team and economic development partners who work tirelessly to create jobs and investment opportunities for Georgians."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-09-14/deal-august-tax-revenues-94-percent
