Public Statements
Deal: Suniva Expansion to Create 500 Jobs
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 9, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that Suniva Inc., a leading manufacturer of high-efficiency crystalline silicon solar cells and modules, will expand its facilities and invest $96 million in Gwinnett County. Operating at full capacity, the expanded facility in Norcross will create up to 500 jobs.
"We welcome Suniva's continued growth in Gwinnett County and feel that the Quick Start program and Georgia's economic environment will be of major benefit to the growing company," said Deal. "Suniva's growth from a Georgia Tech start-up to a top manufacturing company demonstrates that STEM fields continue to provide one of Georgia's richest sources of employment and economic growth. Georgia's universities are equipped with incredible research potential and Suniva's success speaks to the potential of both Georgia's businesses and students." 
Headquartered in Norcross, Suniva will expand existing facilities to support the increase in the production capacity of solar cells. The $96 million investment will primarily go to the construction of facilities and new equipment. New jobs at the expanded facility include management, administrative, supervisory and production positions.
"High demand for our products continues to validate that as the U.S. solar market matures, sophisticated buyers are increasingly valuing power density and quality," said John Baumstark, chairman and chief executive officer of Suniva. "We are proud that the best American-made solar technology originated in Georgia, and are very pleased that we are able to continue our growth, here where we started."
Suniva is advancing solar technology by using proprietary processing techniques that optimize each step of production to achieve higher performance than other solar offerings. Suniva's products conform to the Buy American Act, as they consist of more than 80 percent American materials and qualify for Export-Import financing.
"This expansion confirms and enhances Gwinnett's reputation as a hub for research, development and technology in the Southeast," said Gwinnett County Board of Commission Chairman Charlotte Nash. "Suniva remains an important contributor to the technology industry in our region and we are grateful for their decision to remain and grow in Gwinnett."
Suniva will take advantage Georgia's Quick Start workforce training program as well as Georgia Tech's FaciliTech program which will apply lean principles in the design and layout of a new facility. Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) Director of Existing Industry & Regional Recruitment Lindsay Martin supported Suniva on behalf of the state of Georgia in partnering with the Gwinnett Chamber of Commerce and Georgia Power. 
"We are proud that Suniva started in Georgia with support from Georgia Tech and the Georgia Research Alliance, and we are excited to see Suniva's continued success in our state," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Our ecosystem of innovation has become the perfect backdrop for technology companies who want to locate or expand in Georgia."
In 2007, Suniva received funding from the Georgia Research Alliance (GRA) which fosters economic development in Georgia using research capabilities within the state. In addition, Suniva Founder Ajeet Rohatgi, Ph.D. from Georgia Tech was named a GRA Eminent Scholar. 

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-09-09/deal-suniva-expansion-create-500-jobs
