Public Statements
Deal: Vanguard National Trailer Corp. to Create 400 Jobs
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Aug. 31, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that Vanguard National Trailer Corp., a leading semi-trailer manufacturer based in Monon, Ind., will invest $30 million in a new manufacturing facility in Dade County. Once operating at full capacity, the new location will create 400 jobs.
"We are excited to welcome Vanguard National Trailer Corp. to Dade County," said Deal. "Their decision to establish a manufacturing and assembly plant in Georgia is a testament to our economic development assets that are critical in generating job opportunities for Georgians. I am confident that Vanguard Trailer Corp. will benefit from opening a new facility in our state and further prove why Georgia is a top destination for job creators. "
Vanguard National Trailer Corp. will develop nearly 100 acres of land and build a new 350,000 square-foot facility near Trenton. The newly-created jobs will include both office and manufacturing positions. Vanguard National Trailer will also take advantage of Georgia's Quick Start program, the nation's No. 1 workforce training program.
"The entire Vanguard team is very excited about expanding our production capabilities," said Vanguard president and CEO Charlie Mudd. "We are grateful to the State of Georgia, and particularly the Georgia Department of Economic Development, for all of their efforts to help us with this project."
Vanguard National Trailer Corp. manufactures dry freight and refrigerated semi-trailer vans for the North American transportation industry.
"The Dade County Commission is excited to welcome Vanguard Trailer Corp. to Trenton, Dade County," said commission chairman and county executive Ted Rumley. "The capital investment and 400 new jobs will have a significant impact in our community as well as phase II of our new industrial park."
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) senior project manager Brittany Holtzclaw supported the company on behalf of Georgia in partnership with the Dade County Industrial Development Authority, the Northwest Georgia Joint Development Authority, Georgia Power and the Georgia Department of Transportation.
"We are excited that Vanguard Trailer Corp. is locating to Georgia and taking advantage of one of the state's greatest economic development assets in Quick Start," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "I am confident that Vanguard will be successful for many years to come and will find Georgia to be an excellent place in which to do business."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-08-31/deal-vanguard-national-trailer-corp-create-400-jobs
