Public Statements
Deal Announces $36.8 Million in Community Development Awards
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Aug. 21, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that 78 Georgia communities will receive a total of $36.8 million in assistance to help grow their local economies. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development awarded funding to the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which is administered by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA).
"Strong, vibrant communities help attract companies to the state," said Deal. "The projects funded by this program will enhance the quality of life for Georgians while supporting job growth and economic development. By leveraging this funding with private investment and local funds, small and rural communities are able to maximize the opportunities afforded by the CDBG program and strengthen the foundation for a prosperous business climate."
Of the 78 Georgia communities, 66 counties will receive approximately $31.9 million in CDBG funds for infrastructure improvements, neighborhood restoration projects and facilities that attend to citizens in need. The remaining 12 communities already received $5 million in CDBG Employment Incentive Program and Redevelopment Fund capital for economic development investments and redevelopment projects, generating 640 jobs and $198,506,713 in private investments.
The CDBG program supports projects in Georgia's small and rural communities that create jobs and assist low-to-moderate income residents. Awards ranging from $282,435 to $800,000 will be used for specific projects such as constructing health facilities, revitalizing senior citizen and youth centers and fixing water, sewer and drainage issues within the community.
"The history of the impact that the annual CDBG awards have made on infrastructure, revitalization, and job creation and retention throughout Georgia is remarkable," said DCA Commissioner Camila Knowles. "The project application review process is a highly competitive one, and we appreciate the diligence that went into each community's application. The DCA staff looks forward to working with the awarded communities as they use these resources to make a difference in the lives of their local citizens."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-08-21/deal-announces-368-million-community-development-awards
