Public Statements
Deal: Kodak to Expand and Develop Cutting-edge Product at Columbus Facility
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Aug. 7, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Eastman Kodak, a cutting-edge imaging technology company, will expand. At full capacity, Kodak will employ 240 personnel and invest approximately $28 million to meet increased demands for its rapidly growing KODAK SONORA Process Free Printing Plate product line in Columbus. The expansion will mark the first time these printing plates have been manufactured in the United States, and the Columbus facility will serve as the sole manufacturer of all SONORA Plates sold in the Americas. Kodak marked the opening with a ceremony attended by Kodak CEO Jeff Clarke, Eastman Kodak Print Systems Division President and Senior Vice President Brad Kruchten, government officials, community leaders and customers.
"To remain competitive in an evolving market, companies such as Kodak need access to high-quality resources that can be found in Georgia," said Deal. "Kodak's decision to expand existing facilities here speaks to the strength and vitality of Georgia's business climate and labor force."
Kodak's SONORA Process Free Plates are designed to reduce the water, chemical and energy waste typically involved with commercial printing without sacrificing quality or productivity. In 2014, the Georgia Association of Water Professionals honored Kodak with the "Exceptional Achievement in Water Pollution Prevention/Waste Minimization" and "Outstanding Operation of an Industrial Waste Pretreatment Facility" awards. With this development, Kodak will continue to be a highly competitive driver of sustainability for the state of Georgia.
"We are excited to build on our more than 20-year history in the great city of Columbus and are looking forward to working with the local community to help meet the growing demand for SONORA Process Free Plates," said Clarke. "This expansion has accelerated our goal of helping printers become more sustainable with SONORA Process Free Plates."

Source:
