Public Statements
Deal: CSM Bakery Solutions to Relocate to Sandy Springs
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: July 21, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that CSM Bakery Solutions, a company with origins in the Netherlands, will relocate its global headquarters to Fulton County, creating 120 jobs and investing more than $5.5 million into Sandy Springs. CSM Bakery Solutions is an international leader in its industry, producing a broad range of bakery ingredients, products and services.
"Today's news is an affirmation that our pro-business climate is gaining global recognition," said Deal. "Georgia offers a top-notch combination of trade and industry resources and the brightest minds to harvest them. I am confident that CSM Bakery Solutions will benefit from relocating its global headquarters to our state and provide yet another case in point for other companies to emulate."
By moving its global headquarters to Sandy Springs, CSM will consolidate several regional functions into one centralized location. This transition will generate a total employment in Georgia of more than 800. These new and relocating employees will serve the company in an array of areas, including senior leadership, sales, marketing, business development, administration and other support positions.
The facility will also include a Customer Experience Center where CSM will showcase its culinary expertise and many of its products and solutions in a customer-friendly environment. The move is expected to be complete by mid-2016.
"We're very grateful to the state of Georgia and the city of Sandy Springs for their collective efforts and generosity in helping to bring CSM Bakery Solutions' global headquarters to the Atlanta area," said CSM President and CEO Robert Sharpe. "Critical in our decision were the area's transportation infrastructure, schools, cost and quality of housing, and business-friendly atmosphere -- all in support of our multicultural workforce."
As one of the baking industry's largest players, with revenues of approximately $3 billion and more than 45,000 global customers, CSM employs more than 8,500 people around the world and offers a broad portfolio of well-recognized brands supported and developed from its eight innovation centers.
Mary Ellen McClanahan, project manager and director of entrepreneur and small business development at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), represented CSM Bakery Solutions on behalf of the state of Georgia, partnering with the City of Sandy Springs, the Metro Atlanta Chamber and Georgia Power.
"Moving a company's headquarters is not a simple undertaking," said Sandy Springs Mayor Rusty Paul. "We appreciate the confidence CSM Bakery Solutions has in both the state of Georgia and the city of Sandy Springs to provide the ingredients needed to connect with its customers and build long-term growth."
"We are thrilled that CSM Bakery Solutions has selected Atlanta for its global headquarters," said Brian P. McGowan, executive vice president and chief operating officer for the Metro Atlanta Chamber. "The region's road and rail network, low cost of living and doing business, growing roster of international companies and large retail and restaurant presence will be strong assets for CSM as the company grows and connects with more customers around the world."
"Georgia's ability to attract innovative companies to relocate their global headquarters to the state underscores the high-caliber talent found here," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Our strong transportation assets, including the busiest and most efficient passenger airport in the world, coupled with a thriving culinary scene, will continue to help CSM Bakery Solutions better provide for its growing customer base."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-07-21/deal-csm-bakery-solutions-relocate-sandy-springs
