Public Statements
Deal: Film Industry Generates $6 Billion for Georgia's Economy
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: July 9, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that Georgia-lensed feature film and television productions generated an economic impact of more than $6 billion during fiscal year 2015 (July 1, 2014-June 30, 2015). The 248 film and television productions shot in Georgia represent $1.7 billion in spending in the state.
"As evidenced by today's announcement, Georgia's film industry has had a significant impact on our state," said Deal. "These statistics represent job creation, increased business opportunities and the revitalization of communities statewide, and I am committed to building a strong film-ready workforce in Georgia to ensure that the industry continues to flourish here."
Providing a sustainable workforce to meet the needs of productions coming to Georgia is a priority for the state. Deal established the Georgia Film Academy earlier this year, bringing together the University System of Georgia, the Technical College System of Georgia and members of the film industry to collaborate. Working together, they established a program to provide students with degrees or certifications that fulfill industry needs and demands.
"Georgia is one of the fastest-growing entertainment production centers in the world with 42 productions currently filming across the state," said Chris Carr, commissioner of the Georgia Department of Economic Development. "More than 100 new businesses have relocated or expanded in Georgia to support the industry -- creating jobs for Georgians as well as economic opportunities for our communities and small businesses -- ensuring Georgia's place in the industry well into the future."
The highly anticipated Georgia-lensed "Ant-Man," set to premiere nationwide in theaters on July 17, made a major economic impact in Georgia during filming (October-December). "Ant-Man" employed 3,579 Georgians, spent more than $106 million in Georgia and utilized 22,413 hotel rooms during filming. In addition to filming at Pinewood Atlanta Studios, "Ant-Man" shot scenes in Atlanta including the state-owned Archives Building, Bank of America building and on Broad Street.

Source:
