Public Statements
Deal: National Beef to Create 200 Jobs in Colquitt County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that National Beef Packing Company, LLC, a leading beef processing and packing company will expand its operations in Moultrie, creating approximately 200 jobs and roughly $9 million into the expansion.
"The growth of food processing in Georgia outpaces the national average," said Deal. "Our state offers the right resources, including a diverse cluster of companies and an interconnected logistics framework, necessary to help National Beef better reach its growing market in the region. I look forward to witnessing its continued success in Colquitt County."
National Beef is headquartered in Kansas City and operates five other facilities across the nation. The Colquitt County facility, strategically located in Moultrie in 2001, houses consumer-ready beef, pork and ground beef processing operations that service customers throughout the Southeastern region of the United States. With this new expansion, National Beef will raise the number of its employees to more than 420.
"We are excited about the decision to invest in the expansion of our Moultrie facility," said National Beef's Moultrie Georgia General Manager Kareem Kelly. "The company's investment of approximately $9 million is an exciting step in the continued growth of our consumer-ready business."
One-third of the nation's top food processing companies have operations in Georgia. Michelle Shaw, assistant director of existing industry and regional recruitment at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), supported the company on behalf of Georgia, partnering with Darrell Moore at the Moultrie-Colquitt County Development Authority.
"National Beef has been an excellent corporate citizen," said Moultrie-Colquitt County Development Authority Chairman Larry Franklin. "It has grown to be a cornerstone of our business community by providing quality job opportunities to the citizens of South Georgia and supporting numerous community organizations and charities. We are proud to have National Beef in Colquitt County and our Development Authority will do everything we can to support existing industry and bring new companies to Moultrie. This project will strengthen National Beef's presence in Moultrie and will create jobs and business opportunities throughout the region."
"Georgia's strategic location to a majority of the U.S. market makes our state a top choice for food processing companies," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "In addition, Georgia ranks in the top 5 states for food processing employment, which speaks volumes about the pool of talent here. It's clear that National Beef will find the right resources to remain competitive and grow its business with expanded operations in Moultrie."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-06-24/deal-national-beef-create-200-jobs-colquitt-county
