Public Statements
Deal: Georgians Rise to Transportation Challenges
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 4, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today at Liberty Plaza, Gov. Nathan Deal signed into law HB 170, legislation that addresses Georgia's critical transportation infrastructure needs. The legislation is based off recommendations from the Joint Study Committee on Critical Infrastructure Funding, which was tasked with identifying funding solutions for Georgia's transportation needs. The new law will generate almost $1 billion in new transportation funding annually.
"Each day, Georgians set out in the pursuit of a brighter future, and it is our roads and bridges that bear the weight of our success," said Deal. "We've reached the point where we can no longer keep up with the growing infrastructure demand that encourages job creation, maintains our businesses' bottom lines and takes us home to our families. This investment reflects our modern-day population and current infrastructure usage. Today, we are ensuring that Georgia's economic engine will remain running for generations to come. I commend the courage of the General Assembly for tackling this issue head-on and prioritizing public safety and future growth over politics."
"Georgia's economic future depends on our ability to move people and goods quickly and safely throughout our state," said Sen. Steve Gooch, study committee co-chairman. "Strengthening our transportation network affects each and every one of us by creating an environment that encourages private sector job growth and allowing us to make it home in time for family dinner and Little League games."
"I appreciate Governor Deal's steadfast leadership on this important issue," said Rep. Jay Roberts, study committee co-chairman. "My colleagues in the General Assembly took courageous action to move transportation forward in Georgia. We now have a sustainable and reliable revenue source that will allow our state to prioritize the necessary maintenance, improvements and growth of our transportation infrastructure."
"Without this bold action taken by Georgia's legislators, our state was at risk of falling behind," said Deal. "The leadership demonstrated by these men and women showed a vision oriented in the future, not in the past. The steps taken were tough, but necessary, and I appreciate the hard work on all sides of the aisle in order to boost our ability to do business, and keep Georgians safe."
The law's provisions will take effect on July 1.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-05-04/deal-georgians-rise-transportation-challenges
