Public Statements
Deal: Carcoustics to create 200 jobs in Gwinnett County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 13, 2017
Location: Washington DC

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Carcoustics, a supplier to the automotive industry, will create 200 jobs and invest $6 million in a new Buford facility over the next five years. The newly created jobs will include positions in manufacturing.
"Georgia offers automotive industry suppliers such as Carcoustics the resources necessary to compete worldwide," said Deal. "In choosing Georgia, Carcoustics will enjoy the benefits of a well-trained workforce, a thriving automotive industry and the nation's top business environment. I'm proud to see yet another German company locate here in Georgia, as our efforts to build international relationships continue to yield positive results. I welcome Carcoustics to Georgia's growing community of auto industry suppliers and wish them great success here."
The international Carcoustics Group model brings together a central research center and a manufacturing structure that provides proximity to major markets, allowing the company to quickly make new products available worldwide.
"We are very happy to have found the location for our new plant in the South of U.S. here in Georgia," said Stefan Vallentin, project manager at Carcoustics. "We have a great international transport connection here and are logistically well located between BMW in South Carolina and Mercedes in Alabama. There are many more potential customers such as Automotive Tier I/ Tier II, Volkswagen, Mercedes Vans and Volvo and Asian OEMs like Nissan, Honda, Toyota, Kia and Hyundai. This offers us new possibilities regarding the Carcoustics growth strategy, especially in the U.S."
"We are proud to welcome such a noteworthy company as Carcoustics to Gwinnett County," said Gwinnett County Board of Commissioners Chair Charlotte Nash. "They are joining a strong and growing base of international companies who have found Gwinnett to have the ideal mix of talent, resources and location. We look forward to Carcoustics' continued success and growth in our community."
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) Director of International Investment Nico Wijnberg represented the Global Commerce division in partnership with Partnership Gwinnett, the Metro Atlanta Chamber, Georgia Power and Georgia Quick Start.
"Carcoustics joins the list of international companies that recognize metro Atlanta's prime location, rich resources and skilled talent pool," said Hala Moddelmog, president and CEO of the Metro Atlanta Chamber. "We're pleased to join our regional partners in welcoming the company to our thriving supply chain and automotive ecosystems."
"We are excited about the continued economic development opportunities that are arising in Gwinnett County," said GDEcD Commissioner Pat Wilson. "Carcoustics is joining a growing number of German automotive manufacturers who have found a home in Georgia, and we look forward to supporting their future growth."
About Carcoustics
Carcoustics is an innovative, midsize company headquartered in Leverkusen, Germany. The company develops and produces solution-oriented acoustic and thermally effective components for the automotive industry. Carcoustics also offers the benefit of its expertise in a wide range of technologies to other industrial sectors and customized solutions are at the heart of its product portfolio. Carcoustics' customers include major manufacturers of cars, trucks, domestic appliances, agricultural machinery and HVAC systems. For more information, visit https://www.carcoustics.com.

Source: https://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2017-06-13/deal-carcoustics-create-200-jobs-gwinnett-county
