Public Statements
Deal Instructs Agencies to Prepare for Medical Cannabis Law
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 27, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today signed an executive order directing state agencies to begin preparations for enactment of H.B. 1, legislation that will allow the use of cannabis oil for eight medical conditions. Deal will sign the bill after the session to ensure that no conflicts arise with other pieces of legislation.
"This executive order is the first step in bringing home families who've sought relief elsewhere and for providing new medical solutions for Georgians suffering from debilitating conditions," Deal said. "I've instructed the Georgia Composite Medical Board and the Department of Public Health to begin taking immediate steps ahead of this law's enactment. At the same time, law enforcement, health care providers and other stakeholders should make appropriate preparations.
"While we want to treat suffering patients and bring children home as quickly as possible, it is critical that we take every precaution to safeguard private health information and ensure the security of the new patient registry. In the coming days, these agencies will continue providing updates and further guidance to patients and the public."
Under this legislation, the Georgia Composite Medical Board will draft a patient waiver and a physician certification form. Upon completion, the forms will be available to patients meeting the specified criteria through DPH. Once certified by the appropriate health care provider, patients will be provided with documentation allowing for possession of low-THC cannabis oil.
"I look forward to the day when I can sign this legislation into law -- a day that is coming soon," Deal said. "While many advocates dedicated countless days to this worthy cause, Rep. Allen Peake deserves special recognition for his selfless devotion to these affected families. He provided both the hand that guided our General Assembly and the shoulder that many families leaned on. Today, we're beginning to reap the harvest of that hard work. Soon, families will be reunited and more Georgians will gain access to the treatment they require. I'm proud to see Georgia leading in this way."
"I would like to express my deepest gratitude to Governor Deal and his staff for seeing this legislation through and making it a priority in the General Assembly," said Peake (R-Macon). "I commend Governor Deal for taking the initial steps today to prepare our state for HB 1 to become law very soon. I continue to look forward to that day when this bill is signed and our Georgia families can finally come back home."
Patients with the following conditions are eligible for medical cannabis oil under this law: cancer, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), seizure disorder, multiple sclerosis, Crohn's disease, mitochondrial disease, Parkinson's and sickle cell.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-03-27/deal-instructs-agencies-prepare-medical-cannabis-law
