Public Statements
Deal: Applied Systems to Create 150 Jobs in Atlanta
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 19, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Applied Systems, a Chicago-based software company focused on the insurance industry, will expand its Atlanta operations, creating 150 jobs in the Buckhead area.
"Technology companies such as Applied Systems choose Georgia because they trust that our state is the best place to grow their business," said Deal. "Today's announcement is yet another example of how our financial technology community is thriving because Georgia has the highly skilled workforce and resources necessary to support its rapid growth. I look forward to the high-quality jobs that this industry-leading company will bring to the area."
Applied Systems is a leading provider of software to the insurance industry and the world's largest provider of agency and brokerage management systems. The company employs 1,200 people in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Applied Systems first opened its Atlanta location in 2011.
"Expanding our business in Atlanta provides many benefits to our organization, including the opportunity to attract highly talented software development professionals in the area to continue our company's rapid growth," said Applied Systems CEO Reid French. "We look forward to growing our presence in Atlanta and becoming a larger part of its vibrant technology community."
Applied Systems has signed a lease to occupy 20,838 square feet of office space in Buckhead Tower at Lenox Square. As part of its planning process, the company conducted a formal evaluation of other cities in which Applied Systems operates as potential locations for expansion.
"We are excited to work with Applied Systems as the company expands its presence in metro Atlanta. The region's roster of top technology and financial companies, robust workforce and leading universities will be strong assets as the company seeks to fill critical software jobs," said Executive Vice President and COO of the Metro Atlanta Chamber Brian P. McGowan.

Source:
