Public Statements
Deal: Senate Gives Hope to Parents, Students
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today praised the Senate for passing legislation that would allow for an Opportunity School District (OSD) to aid chronically failing schools throughout the state. The constitutional amendment resolution and the implementing legislation will now move to the House for consideration.
"Today, we are one step closer to creation of an Opportunity School District, and one step closer to restoring children's and parents' hopes for a brighter future," Deal said. "We've seen the successes that Louisiana, Tennessee and Michigan attained with similar, bipartisan measures. Working together, I believe Georgians can achieve the same for our students and families. I congratulate Sen. Butch Miller on his diligence and hard work in advancing these education reforms, and I commend the courage of the 37 other senators who supported this legislation. As the House considers this bill, I am confident that its members will also put the needs of Georgia's most vulnerable students first. Through the efforts of our legislators, we will put this referendum on the ballot so that Georgians can assure that a child's chance of success isn't dependent on his or her ZIP code."
The OSD legislation requires a constitutional amendment, for which there must be a two-thirds majority in both houses and majority approval by Georgia voters at the next general election. The OSD would allow the state to intervene in schools that have received failing grades for three consecutive years. The district could add no more than 20 schools per year, for a total of 100 at any given time. The schools would remain in the OSD for no less than five years and no more than 10 years.
"The Opportunity School District will allow us to bring new focus by education experts, better governance and best practices to schools that have underachieved for too long. The children trapped in these schools can't wait. I believe all children can learn, but we have an obligation to provide access for high-quality education to those students and parents who are anxious for a better future. It's my vision -- and that of many legislators here -- that every high school graduate in Georgia should have the skills needed to enter the workforce or further their educations in college."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-03-05/deal-senate-gives-hope-parents-students
