Public Statements
Deal Recognizes International Trade Leaders' Statewide Economic Impact
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 14, 2017
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal, in conjunction with the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), today presented 24 businesses with GLOBE (Georgia Launching Opportunities By Exporting) Awards at the 2017 Go Global reception. This state-led awards program recognizes companies that entered into a new international market in the previous year.
"The Go Global event highlights innovative businesses and the enormous impact trade has on Georgia's economy, while providing industry leaders an opportunity to network and strengthen relationships with international partners," said Deal. "These businesses contribute heavily to Georgia's success in exports and significantly bolster the state's economy by reaching new markets. In 2016, total trade between Georgia and the world exceeded $121.7 billion and exports exceeded $35.5 billion. With our strong international presence, Georgia is ready and able to support companies looking to achieve new levels of success while reinforcing Georgia's position as a leader in global commerce."
The fourth annual Go Global reception allows Georgia companies to network with the state's international representatives from 11 strategic markets including Brazil, Canada, China, Chile, Colombia, Europe, Israel, Japan, Korea, Mexico, the United Kingdom and Ireland. The top markets among this year's winners include Australia, Japan, Latin America and the United Kingdom.
"It is because of the dedication of this year's GLOBE Award winners that Georgia is able to tout another year as a leader in international trade," said GDEcD Commissioner Pat Wilson. "International business and trade are both extremely vital to Georgia's economy, and I am proud of the important work that these companies have done to keep us competitive in the global economy."
The 24 GLOBE Award winners from 15 counties collectively expanded into 129 new markets in 2016. Of the winners, 75 percent are classified as small businesses, employing less than 100 employees.

























Source:
