Public Statements
Deal: Caesarstone to Create 130 Jobs in Bryan County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 17, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Caesarstone, a manufacturer of high-quality engineered quartz surfaces, will expand in Richmond Hill, creating 130 jobs.
"Caesarstone's expansion underscores just how well our partnerships with the international community can strengthen Georgia's network of advanced manufacturing companies," said Deal. "During my economic development trip to Israel last summer, I had the opportunity to visit Caesarstone at Kibbutz Sdot Yam. I'm thrilled that Caesarstone has found such success here in Georgia, and I have no doubt that it will continue to benefit from our solid workforce and strong logistics system for years to come."
Caesarstone announced its first U.S.-based manufacturing plant in the Belfast Commerce Centre in November 2013. Due to a steady increase in sales in the United States and Canada, the company is further expanding its U.S. manufacturing operations. The company will continue to use the intermodal facility at the Port of Savannah and it also plans to utilize the access to rail to import raw materials for its production process.
"We are pleased with the assistance and support received from the state of Georgia, Bryan County and Richmond Hill," said Caesarstone CEO Yos Shiran. "We see Richmond Hill as a long-term home for our North American manufacturing operations."
Alyce Thornhill, project manager on the existing industry team at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), worked with Ronen Kenan, managing director of GDEcD's office in Israel along with the Development Authority of Bryan County and Georgia Power.
"We are delighted Caesarstone has chosen to expand in Belfast Commerce Centre in Richmond Hill," said Development Authority of Bryan County Chairman Derrick Smith. "By initiating expansion plans before even opening the facility in Bryan County, it demonstrates how strong Caesarstone's business is and further confirms the park is a strategic location for internationally headquartered companies seeking access to U.S. markets. Both the original project and the planned expansion are a result of collaboration at the local level with the city of Richmond Hill, Bryan County Board of Commissioners, and Development Authority of Bryan County working with the private landowner, TerraPointe, to create new jobs and investment in the community. We also appreciate the Georgia Department of Economic Development and Georgia Power's assistance with the projects."
"Caesarstone has continued to invest in Richmond Hill and in Georgia's advanced manufacturing sector since it located to Georgia over a year ago," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "This newest expansion underscores how our business ties with key international regions, coupled with one of the fastest growing ports in the U.S., can help leading companies such as Caesarstone stay competitive in the global marketplace."
Caesarstone joins more than 40 Israeli companies already operating in Georgia, including Amdocs, Verint, Given Imaging, PCI (Blades), Alpha Omega and Baran Telecommunications.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-02-17/deal-caesarstone-create-130-jobs-bryan-county
