Public Statements
Deal: Comcast to Create 300 Jobs in Fulton, Gwinnett Counties
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 17, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that Comcast will expand its business in greater Atlanta, creating 300 new jobs in Fulton and Gwinnett counties and relocating to a new, more modern regional headquarters in Peachtree Corners as part of the company's overall effort to enhance the customer experience.
"With approximately 4,000 employees in Georgia, Comcast has long been a strong corporate partner of our state," said Deal. "Not only has the company created high-quality jobs, but Comcast has also continued to invest in technology infrastructure statewide. With our competitive business climate that includes a solid logistics infrastructure and some of the best and brightest minds in technology, I have no doubt that Comcast will continue to flourish in Georgia."
Comcast has selected Peachtree Corners in Gwinnett County for the location of its new regional headquarters, which will house the company's existing 532 full-time local employees. The new 88,000-square-foot state-of-the-art facility will feature four floors, a high-tech demonstration lab and a Comcast University space for employee training and continuing education. The company will add 150 positions at its new headquarters and 150 additional employees to its existing facility in Alpharetta on North Point Parkway.
"By bringing 300 new jobs to Atlanta, Comcast continues to support Georgia's economic development by building a strong, highly skilled workforce, deploying innovative products and services, and investing in the most advanced broadband network in the state," said Comcast Regional SVP Doug Guthrie. "Our new regional headquarters in Peachtree Corners puts us in a larger, more contemporary environment, allowing us to better meet the needs of our customers across our service area. I want to thank Governor Deal, Economic Development Commissioner Chris Carr, Fulton Chairman John Eaves, Gwinnett Chairman Charlotte Nash, our partners from the state, and those from Fulton and Gwinnett counties for their terrific support."
Lindsay Martin, director of existing industry and regional recruitment at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), assisted Comcast on behalf of Georgia, along with Partnership Gwinnett and Progress Partners of North Fulton.
"Today's announcement reflects how Georgia's thriving communities work together with leading global companies such as Comcast to grow our industry base," said Carr. "These newly created jobs and this increase in investment not only represent career opportunities for Georgians, but they will also help further the state's technology sector."
As one of the Georgia's largest employers, Comcast boasts 4,000 representatives and holds a 20-year record of spending over $200 million per year in Georgia. Comcast operates nearly 190 facilities, offices and call centers statewide, allowing it to be on-site and responsive to its customers. In Marietta, Alpharetta and Buckhead, Comcast has opened XFINITY Customer Centers, which provide an interactive way for customers to experience products and services, such as the X1 platform and the XFINITY Home suite of products, as well as easily exchange equipment and pay bills.
In recent years in Atlanta, Comcast has launched Cloud DVR, a service that enables customers to watch live television on mobile devices and take their content on the go, a growing trend known as TV Everywhere. Comcast has also deployed several hundred thousand local Wi-Fi hotspots in businesses, homes and popular outdoor venues, allowing a virtually seamless online experience for customers. Comcast has invested heavily in expanding its 10-gigabit fiber network that serves businesses, government agencies and other commercial organizations across greater Atlanta, providing the fastest broadband speeds available.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-02-17/deal-comcast-create-300-jobs-fulton-gwinnett-counties
