Public Statements
Deal: Tyson Foods to Create 500 Jobs in Dooly County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 27, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Tyson Foods, Inc., one of the world's largest producers of chicken, beef, pork and prepared foods, will expand in Vienna, creating 500 jobs and investing $110 million over the next year.
"Tyson Foods' decision to expand in Georgia underscores how our No. 1 business climate and highly skilled workforce keeps leading companies competitive in today's fast-paced market," said Deal. "Tyson Foods is one of our state's largest employers in food processing, and I'm confident that it will continue to benefit from our top talent and robust industry network in order to deliver high-quality jobs to Georgia's citizens."
The expansion will add 100,000 square feet to the current Tyson Foods processing facility. The Vienna plant has been producing chicken for food service customers, including restaurant chains, but will convert to supply fresh tray pack chicken to meet the needs of regional retail customers.
"We're grateful to the Georgia Department of Economic Development and everything it has done to make this project possible," said Tyson Foods' President of Poultry Noel White. "We appreciate doing business in Georgia and are glad we can invest in our Vienna plant."
Tyson Foods provides a wide variety of protein-based and prepared foods products, including leading brands such as Tyson®, Jimmy Dean®, Hillshire Farm®, Sara Lee® frozen bakery, Ball Park®, Wright®, Aidells® and State Fair®. Tyson Foods is the recognized market leader in the retail and food service markets it serves, supplying customers throughout the United States as well as customers in 130 countries. It has approximately 124,000 team members employed at more than 400 facilities and offices in the United States and around the world.
Georgia is the No. 1 exporter of poultry in the nation, and poultry processing employs nearly 30,000 Georgians, more than any other food processing sector. Candice Scott, project manager of existing industry at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), supported the expansion on behalf of the state of Georgia, along with the Dooly County Industrial Development Authority.
"This is a major expansion with such a great deal of investment and job creation for Dooly County and the surrounding community," said Dooly County Economic Development Council Director Bob Jeter. "Tyson Foods could not have selected a better location. Dooly County is grateful to Governor Deal and his staff for all their work and efforts to make this possible."
"One-third of the country's top 100 food processing companies have operations in Georgia," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "This, coupled with access to solid logistics infrastructure and the nation's top-ranked workforce training program, Quick Start, create the ideal location for Tyson Foods, a leader in meat processing, to grow its presence."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-01-27/deal-tyson-foods-create-500-jobs-dooly-county
