Public Statements
Deal: Osmose Utilities Services to Create 100 Jobs in Fayette County
Statement
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 21, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Osmose Utilities Services, Inc., an inspection, maintenance and rehabilitation service provider for electric utilities and telecommunication companies, will build a new headquarters in Peachtree City, creating as many as 100 new jobs over the next year.
"The fact that Osmose operates around the country, yet chose to locate and expand its headquarters to Georgia, is a huge compliment to the state and our workforce," said Deal. "Georgia's No. 1 business climate creates a reliable and stable home for companies and corporations, big and small. Here, they will continue to discover an abundance of resources, talent and infrastructure necessary for growth."
Osmose will build a facility for its new headquarters at 635 Highway 74 South in Peachtree City. The newly created jobs resulting from the project will include executive, administrative, IT/technology and supervisory positions.
"Our work within the utility industry spans all 50 states, but we are excited to be expanding our corporate headquarters into Peachtree City, Georgia," said Osmose President and CEO Larry Larson. "In addition to being a highly desirable place to call home, Fayette and the surrounding counties offer an excellent talent pool we can draw from as our business continues to grow."
Lindsay Martin, senior project manager at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), supported the company on behalf of the state of Georgia, along with the Fayette County Development Authority.
"We are so honored Osmose is a part of our community," said Fayette County Development Authority Manager of Retention and Expansion Emily Poole. "We are very much looking forward to their future growth in Fayette County, and are delighted at their continued investment here."
"More and more companies are choosing Georgia to locate their headquarters," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Osmose's decision to establish its headquarters in Georgia explains how our pro-business climate supports this critical business operation. With access to a skilled workforce and a solid network of companies, Osmose will continue to grow and remain competitive here."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2015-01-21/deal-osmose-utilities-services-create-100-jobs-fayette-county
