Public Statements
Education, Transportation Investments Needed
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 13, 2015
Location: Unknown

I am honored to join this chamber for the beginning of yet another legislative session. In my State of the State address, I will detail where I stand on some topics of interest to this group, including education reform and improvements to our transportation network. Tomorrow I will present a plan for changes to our K-12 education system that will promote better results in our classrooms. In addition, while many suggestions and options are on the table, I want to make clear that I support increasing funding for strategic transportation investments. Details of how this will be accomplished will certainly require discussion. I look forward to continuing that conversation tomorrow.
Today I want to talk about what it will take to keep Georgia leading the nation as the No. 1 place to do business. State and local governments, local chambers and others have joined together to get us to the top. I want to thank those of you here for your vital support throughout the past four years. I ask you to continue to stand with me as we seek to land more jobs and more investment. What this business community does over the next four years--and perhaps more importantly what it doesn't do--will echo throughout our state for decades to come.
Holding on to the No. 1 spot will require advancements in our transportation network and K-12 education system, but it will also require developing a better workforce through a focus on higher education. My budgetary and policy initiatives will, for example:
* Encourage earlier access to higher education courses through the broadening of dual enrollment programs
* Entice those who never completed college to come back and earn their degree, and
* Expand and strengthen apprenticeship programs with companies throughout our state--some of you are already involved in this
These contributions will help reinforce our economy and business climate. Investors and site selectors regularly cite the quality of our labor pool as a critical factor in their decisions. While Georgia performs well in this category, we cannot afford to let our workforce gaps widen into ravines. A job that remains open because of a lack of capable applicants undermines the diligent efforts it took to get it here. We must therefore work to fill these gaps by directing our young people to careers in those areas where jobs are in demand.

Source:
