Public Statements
Issue Position: Transportation
Issue Position
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

Building from a Strong Base
A state's infrastructure is key to economic competitiveness and Georgia's transportation network has always been a selling point. Georgia boasts a strategic location as the gateway to the American Southeast as well as a strong collection of competitive assets, including two Class One rail lines, the most capable airport in the world along with an extensive network of regional airports, and the fastest growing ports in the nation. These assets have enabled Georgia to stand out for its ability to move people and goods efficiently.
Investing Strategically to Tackle our Network's Shortcomings
Traffic congestion and unnecessary delays pose a real threat to our continued economic growth and quality of life. In these tough economic times, we must prioritize transportation investment to ease congestion and improve mobility. As we have one of the best transportation systems in the country, our focus on improved safety, connectivity and reliability will help Georgia continue to grow. Our key to success is making outcomes-driven infrastructure investments and practicing excellent stewardship of our transportation resources.
Investing in Georgia's Ports
Our ports are one of the primary drivers of economic growth in our state, and Gov. Deal has already pledged $266 million to the deepening the Port of Savannah to ready Georgia for 2014, when the newly enlarged Panama Canal will begin sending larger, Post-Panamax ships to the East Coast.
Expanding Options by Looking to the Private Sector
In these challenging budget times, the state must look for opportunities to partner with the private sector to make necessary transportation improvements. Due to our positive demographic trends and strong balance sheet, Georgia is a particularly attractive location for public-private partnerships.
Economic development requires the ability to move people and goods efficiently.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/issues-0
