Public Statements
Issue Position: Healthcare
Issue Position
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 1, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

Confronting the Challenges of Obamacare
The enactment of the federal takeover of healthcare has dramatically changed the healthcare landscape in Georgia and the nation. For the first time in the history of the United States, the new law requires citizens to purchase a health insurance plan or face financial penalties if they do not comply. While the United States Supreme Court ruled to uphold this provision of the law, they made the financially devastating Medicaid expansion optional for states. The proposed expansion plan would require our state Medicaid program to cover an estimated 620,000 newly eligible citizens in 2014, representing a 34 percent increase in current program participation. Conservative estimates project that the total cost of Obamacare is around $4.5 billion over the next 10 years. This dramatic expansion creates an unsustainable budgetary burden that threatens to crowd out all non-healthcare investment.
On October 1, 2013, the Federally Facilitated Exchange went live in Georgia and 33 other states. The state prudently decided not to spend untold dollars on building and maintaining an exchange that would be state-based in name only. From the beginning, the Federal Exchange has been plagued with serious technical glitches that have undermined its operation. Our state's healthcare delivery system would benefit greatly from greater flexibility in operating federal programs, like Medicaid, and we will continue to protect state authority in operating state-based programs.
Fostering a Culture of Wellness
Improving the health and wellness of Georgians is essential to promoting our state as a great place to live, work and play. For far too long, the incidence of diabetes, hypertension, obesity and similar health conditions has risen in Georgia. The consequent rise in healthcare costs has adversely affected our productivity, quality of life and our ability to attract jobs to Georgia. This troubling trend must be reversed through a concerted effort to promote healthy lifestyle choices and disease prevention.

Source:
