Public Statements
Issue Position: Environment and Energy
Issue Position
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

Protecting Access to Water
Governor Deal remains committed to protecting Georgia's water supply through enhanced conservation methods, developing new storage capacity, and defending any attempt by neighboring states to limit Georgia's water rights. Recently, Florida has filed suit against the state of Georgia over water use. We remain confident in Georgia's progress in water conservation, and recent federal rulings have only boosted our belief that ultimately we will emerge victorious in this frivolous lawsuit.
Expanding Water Supply
Over the next two decades between the years 2010 and 2030, the state's population is projected to grow by an additional 4.6 million people. We must prepare for the expected population growth as well as the droughts that are sure to come. To that end, we will allocate $300 million over the next four years to get the ball rolling on these efforts in strategic locations around the state.
We have directed Georgia Environmental Facilities Authority ("GEFA") to develop and launch the Governor's Water Supply Development Program. This program will mobilize state resources to assist local governments in developing new sources of water. This program will position the state to better negotiate with our neighboring states, as well as securing our economic future.
Economic development requires dependable water supplies.
Natural Resources
Protecting Georgia's Natural Resources
Georgia has taken steps in recent years to protect the state's natural, cultural and historic treasures, and we will continue to promote stewardship to ensure that Georgia retains its pristine environment for future generations of sportsmen and nature lovers. The state's natural resources must be protected for both their ecological and economic value, as they drive tourism and support jobs around the state, particularly in economically challenged regions.
Economic development depends on the sustainable utilization of our rich natural resources.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/issues-0
