Public Statements
Deal: Castellini Group to Create 300 Jobs in Clayton County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Dec. 8, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Castellini Group of Companies, one of the largest fresh produce distributors in the United States, will develop a large-scale fresh-cut fruits and vegetables processing and produce distribution center in Conley, creating 300 jobs and investing $52 million into the project over the next several years.
"With our No. 1 business climate and highly skilled workforce, Georgia has become a hub for growing companies that require a strong logistics infrastructure," said Deal. "I'm confident that our state will provide Castellini with the support and resources it needs to remain competitive in today's fast-moving market, and in return, deliver high-quality jobs to our citizens."
The company will construct a facility to process and distribute produce to leading wholesale, retail and food service customers on the East Coast. The new distribution center in Georgia strengthens the Castellini Group of Companies' position in the Southeast, enabling them to reach 80 percent of the U.S. market within a single day's truck drive. Site preparation for the 180,000-square-foot facility has already begun and is slated to open in September 2015.
"Our expansion in the Southeast will allow us to better serve current customers and continue our growth strategy by opening up new markets," said Castellini Group of Companies President and CEO Bill Schuler. "By working together with the state of Georgia and Clayton County, we're able to further grow our business while bringing much-needed jobs and economic growth to the region. We appreciate all the assistance they've provided to help make this initiative a reality."
The Castellini Group of Companies, based in the Greater Cincinnati area, offers a full spectrum of fresh fruits and vegetables and value-added services, which include a complete line of organic produce, fresh-cut processing, tomato repacking and transportation for its retail, foodservice and wholesale customers.
Charlie Moseley, senior project manager at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), supported Castellini Group on behalf of the state of Georgia, along with the Georgia Power Co., the Clayton County Office of Economic Development, the Georgia Department of Transportation and the Metro Atlanta Chamber.
"Castellini's marquee investment in the Highway 42 corridor near the Gillem Logistics Center brings a new level of corporate presence to an area we have long sought to improve, and we are so grateful to the company leadership for selecting Clayton County for these new jobs," said District 1 Commissioner Sonna Gregory.
"We are so proud of the incredible partnerships that evolved over the two-year course of this hugely impactful project," said Clayton County Economic Development and Film Office Director Grant Wainscott. "From our county water authority and community and transportation development departments to our statewide project team, this new industry for Georgia is great proof of the collaboration that happens every day in our communities."
"Leading companies continue to choose Georgia as the ideal location to better reach their customers," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "This emphasizes the importance of our solid logistics and distribution infrastructure, one that has received a significant increase in investment over last fiscal year's numbers. Castellini will also take advantage of a highly skilled workforce and network of thriving businesses to support and grow its presence in the Southeast."
About the Castellini Group of Companies
Founded in 1896 in the original Cincinnati produce terminal market, Castellini Co. is one of the oldest companies in the produce industry. Today, the Castellini Group of Companies combine to form one of the largest distributors of fresh produce in the United States, including a complete line of fresh-cut, value-added, organic, specialty, locally grown products and transportation services for the retail and foodservice markets.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-12-08/deal-castellini-group-create-300-jobs-clayton-county
