Public Statements
Deal: Unisys to Create Up to 700 Jobs in Richmond County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Nov. 3, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Unisys, a $3.5 billion global provider of information technology and services, plans to locate a new service center in Augusta, creating up to 700 jobs over the next five years.
"With our top-ranked business climate and highly skilled workforce, more global technology companies such as this one are choosing to call Georgia home," said Deal. "Our state will be able to provide Unisys with the support it needs to remain competitive in the marketplace and, in turn, this company will provide our citizens with high-quality, good-paying jobs. Georgia's technology sector is thriving, and I'm confident that we have all the necessary resources for Unisys to successfully serve its customers around the world."
Unisys will initially use the center to provide services to the U.S. Army, which recently selected Unisys for the Army Enterprise Service Desk, a single point of contact for Army personnel who need help desk or other end user IT support services. The company expects to hire approximately 250 employees within the first year and will work with the Fort Gordon Cyber Center of Excellence to recruit IT professionals, including Georgia veterans, for the center. Unisys expects that it will also serve commercial clients through the new facility.
Unisys is seeking to occupy a 60,000-square-foot plus facility in Augusta and is currently finalizing the precise location.
"A smart, motivated workforce and the vibrant local community make Augusta an ideal location for our new service center," said Unisys Enterprise Services President Ron Frankenfield. "We look forward to having our new service personnel deliver the exceptional IT services that our clients around the world have come to expect from Unisys."
Unisys, headquartered in Blue Bell, Penn., is a global provider of outsourcing and managed services, systems integration and consulting, high-end server technology, cybersecurity and cloud management software, and maintenance and support services. The company has more than 23,000 employees and serves clients around the world.
Lauren Lambiase, senior project manager at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), assisted Unisys on behalf of the state, along with Walter Sprouse at the Augusta Economic Development Authority and Brenda Robbins at Georgia Power.
"Unisys and Augusta will be good for each other, and we are excited to assist with the hiring process," said Augusta Mayor Deke Copenhaver. "Unisys is a quality company and its new location in downtown Augusta overlooking the beautiful Savannah River will be unique and very functional. Thanks to all our team to make today's announcement a reality."
"For 2014, Augusta was ranked as one of the top ten cities in the United States for the creation of information technology jobs," said Augusta Economic Development Authority Chairman Henry Ingram. "Today's announcement that Unisys will bring 700 new jobs to downtown Augusta is a testament that our workforce is superior. Unisys will thrive in Augusta and we are thrilled to have this outstanding company as part of Augusta's Corporate Community."
"Georgia has become a hub for technology companies," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Unisys' decision to locate here highlights the vitality of this industry and the strength of our workforce to support its growth. I am confident that our pro-business climate and robust R&D resources will help Unisys in servicing clients around the world."
About Unisys
Unisys is a global information technology company that solves complex IT challenges at the intersection of modern and mission critical. Unisys works with many of the world's largest companies and government organizations to secure and keep their mission critical operations running at peak performance; streamline and transform their data centers; enhance support to their end users and constituents; and modernize their enterprise applications. They do this while protecting and building on their legacy IT investments. Company offerings include outsourcing and managed services, systems integration and consulting services, high-end server technology, cybersecurity and cloud management software, and maintenance and support services. Unisys has more than 23,000 employees serving clients around the world.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-11-03/deal-unisys-create-700-jobs-richmond-county
