Public Statements
Deal: Live Oak Homes to Create 200 Jobs in Coffee County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Nov. 3, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Live Oak Homes, a leading mobile home manufacturer, will expand to Broxton, creating 200 jobs and investing $1.4 million into the project over the next two years.
"Forward-looking companies such as Live Oak Homes are excellent additions to our solid manufacturing network," said Deal. "This project underscores how well our existing industries are able to succeed, and I have no doubt that Georgia's top-ranked business climate will help this company better service its growing customer base."
Upon completion, Live Oak Homes' newest expansion will be the company's second plant in Georgia and will manufacture mobile home products for Live Oak Homes, Mossy Oak Homes and Plantation brands. The new plant will be completed by December 2014. Once in operation, it will initially create around 130 jobs, reaching 200 jobs by 2016.
"We have outgrown our current production facility and feel blessed to have the opportunity to add this new plant in Coffee County," said Live Oak Homes General Manager of Operations Joel Scholten. "It is great to be wanted and Live Oak Homes has felt so welcomed by everyone at the Georgia Department of Economic Development, city of Broxton, Douglas-Coffee County Chamber of Commerce and the Economic Development Authority. Everyone has been great to work with, accommodating us in every way. We are excited to be a part of bringing many new jobs to the area."
Live Oak Homes opened its first manufacturing facility in Waycross in 2007 and currently employs 200 at this location. The company has 88 retailers across six states: Alabama, Georgia, Florida, South Carolina, Mississippi and North Carolina.
Michelle Shaw, senior project manager of the existing industry team at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), supported Live Oak Homes on behalf of the state, along with the Douglas-Coffee County Economic Development Authority.
"We look forward to the new jobs from Live Oak Homes and the economic impact it will bring to our community," said Broxton Mayor Darquita Riley.
"Live Oak Homes' newest expansion shows how homegrown manufacturing companies are thriving in Georgia," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "With a qualified labor pool, solid transportation infrastructure and robust network of companies, Live Oak Homes will continue to find the support it needs to flourish."
About Live Oak Homes
Founded in Waycross, Georgia in 2007, Live Oak Homes has been able to thrive and meet the needs of many customers despite the housing industry's instability. Live Oak Homes has quickly become one of the leading manufacturers in the Southeast.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-11-03/deal-live-oak-homes-create-200-jobs-coffee-county
