Public Statements
Deal: Kubota to Create 650 Jobs in Hall County, Invest $100 Million
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 27, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Kubota Manufacturing of America (KMA), a leading global manufacturer of small tractors, RTVs and lawn mowers, will expand its headquarters in Gainesville, creating an additional 650 jobs and investing $100 million into the project over the next several years.
"Kubota's presence in Georgia continues to be one of our state's greatest business success stories," Deal said. "This expansion is yet another testament to our state's growing international business presence. Japan remains one of Georgia's top five investor nations, and I thank companies such as this one for investing in our state and creating job opportunities for Georgians."
In order to meet growing demands, KMA will purchase 180 acres located within Hall County's Gateway Industrial Centre, which will support additional manufacturing for its current operations. KMA will continue to operate its existing facilities in Gainesville Industrial Park North at Ramsey Road. With this expansion, Kubota Corp. will employ more than 2,900 Georgians in two counties.
Kubota Corp. has had a presence in Georgia for 26 years, currently employing 1,300 people under Kubota Manufacturing at the Hall County campus and 870 under Kubota Industrial Equipment at the Jefferson campus. The company is a true flagship for international manufacturing companies in Georgia and supports countless suppliers throughout the state.
Scott McMurray, director of the international investment team at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), assisted KMA on behalf of Georgia, along with the Gainesville-Hall County Chamber of Commerce.
"This is a significant project for Gainesville-Hall County," said Greater Hall Chamber of Commerce CEO Kit Dunlap. "Our commitment to supporting existing industries such as Kubota and their suppliers will produce jobs and support small businesses throughout the region."

Source:
