Public Statements
Deal: Badcock to Locate New Distribution Center to LaGrange
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 21, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that W.S. Badcock Corp., one of the largest privately held furniture retailers in the United States, will construct a new regional distribution center in LaGrange, investing $22 million and employing more than 100.
"Badcock's new regional distribution center is an excellent addition to Troup County," said Deal. "This expansion is a testament our state's top-ranked business climate, and I have no doubt that Georgia's skilled workforce and globally recognized logistics infrastructure will support future growth and success."
The 535,000-square-foot facility will be located at the Callaway South Industrial Park in LaGrange and is scheduled to open in the third quarter of 2015. The project will include enhanced energy efficiency technologies and is designed for expansion to 700,000 square feet. This facility will replace two existing facilities in Thomson and Cullman, Ala.
"We are very pleased with the cooperation from the officials in LaGrange," said W.S. Badcock President Mike Price. "Their progressive attitude and effective leadership were influential in our selection of the community. This is a significant project for our company, and we are delighted to make this investment here and become an integral part of LaGrange and Troup County. The new distribution facility is designed to handle distribution to our current network of locations and will also accommodate our planned growth of new stores."
"We are thrilled that Badcock chose Georgia for their new regional distribution facility," said Georgia Department of Economic Development Commissioner Chris Carr. "Georgia's logistics infrastructure will give them easy access to supply their growing number of retail stores across the Southeast."
Charlie Moseley, senior project manager at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), assisted Badcock on behalf of the state, along with the LaGrange Office of Economic Development and Lonnie Smallwood at Electric Cities of Georgia.
"We welcome Badcock's distribution facility to LaGrange," said Mayor Jim Thornton. "They are a strong brand with an outstanding reputation for excellence and we are excited to have these jobs created in our community."
About W.S. Badcock Corp.: W.S. Badcock Corp. is a privately held company that was founded in 1904, is headquartered in Mulberry, Fla., and employs more than 1,200 employees. There are more than 315 Badcock Home Furniture & more stores operating in Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Virginia. The stores are a combination of corporately owned stores and dealer-owned operations. Badcock Home Furniture & more stores carry a complete line of furniture, appliances, bedding, floor covering, electronics, home office and seasonal items.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-10-21/deal-badcock-locate-new-distribution-center-lagrange
