Public Statements
Deal: Acuity Brands to Create 700 Jobs in DeKalb, Rockdale Counties
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 20, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Acuity Brands, a Georgia-based global leader in lighting solutions for indoor and outdoor applications, will expand its operations, creating 700 jobs and investing more than $16 million into DeKalb and Rockdale counties over the next five years.
"When a successful Georgia operation such as Acuity Brands decides to expand its facility and its employment roster, it's a win for all concerned, especially for our workforce," Deal said. "I have no doubt that our top-ranked business climate and cutting-edge logistics sector will continue to support Acuity Brands for many years to come, and we look forward to its continued success.
As part of a plan to create a workplace that will drive collaboration, innovation and technological advances, Acuity Brands will build a world-class engineering and technology center at a site it owns in Decatur and will also invest in facility upgrades at its complex in Conyers.
"We have great people who drive our success and have helped make us the industry leader," said Acuity Brands President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Vernon J. Nagel. "Our goal with these investments is to provide our people with the best work environment possible and the tools and technologies necessary to drive our future success. We also believe that a world-class workplace and our team-centered culture will help us continue to attract the best talent to come work with us. We greatly appreciate the support of the state of Georgia and DeKalb and Rockdale counties, for their assistance to help make these projects possible."
In the Decatur project, Acuity Brands will retrofit an existing 167,000-square-foot building to become its new state-of-the-art Engineering and Technology Center. The building, located at One Lithonia Way, will undergo a total transformation that will incorporate leading workplace design, technology and systems into the new facility. The company's goal is to provide an open work environment that enhances collaboration, spark innovation and help associates bring new technologies to market at a faster rate. The $11 million Decatur project will begin immediately, with completion scheduled for mid-2015.
In Conyers, beginning later this year and over the next several years, Acuity Brands will make significant investments in redesigning and retrofitting the four main buildings on its campus to include open workspace design, new infrastructure, enabling technologies and new furnishings.
Acuity Brands has a corporate affiliate office for the Georgia Tech Denning Technology and Management Capstone program and works very closely with Georgia Tech students. With the establishment of its Center of Excellence office, the company seeks to further its relationship with Georgia Tech.
Lauren Salas Lambiase, senior project manager at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), assisted the company on behalf of the state of Georgia, along with the Development Authority of DeKalb County, Conyers Rockdale Economic Development and Charles Stallworth at Georgia Power.
"It is exciting to be a part of this great business announcement," said Conyers Rockdale Economic Development Council Chairman Richard Oden. "Acuity Brands has been a strong business partner in Rockdale County, so we look forward to their expanded workforce here because we know that this wise, strategic move spurs our economic growth in many ways. Their employees will shop, live and work here for many years to come."
"DeKalb County and our citizens are proud that that Acuity has chosen our county for its engineering and technology center," said DeKalb County Government Interim CEO Lee May. "Creating well-paying jobs in our community will stimulate further growth not just for our citizens and Acuity, but also economic expansion and R&D growth for the industry. We warmly embrace Acuity and welcome them to our community."
"The fact that a leading global company has chosen Georgia to expand, as well as establish its technology innovation operations, speaks volumes about our thriving technology environment and pro-business climate," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "More than 3,500 engineering graduates came from our universities and technical colleges in FY 2013. This, coupled with a strong network of companies and a highly skilled workforce, will keep Acuity Brands ahead of advancements in technology and global competition."
About Acuity Brands
Acuity Brands, Inc. is a North American market leader and one of the world's leading providers of lighting solutions for both indoor and outdoor applications. With fiscal year 2014 net sales of $2.4 billion, Acuity Brands employs approximately 7,000 associates and is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia with operations throughout North America, Europe and Asia. The company's lighting solutions are sold under various brands, including Lithonia Lighting®, Holophane®, Peerless®, Gotham®, Mark Architectural Lighting™, Winona® Lighting, Healthcare Lighting®, Hydrel®, American Electric Lighting®, Carandini®, Antique Street Lamps™, Sunoptics®, RELOC® Wiring Solutions, Acculamp®, eldoLED® and Acuity Controls.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-10-20/deal-acuity-brands-create-700-jobs-dekalb-rockdale-counties
