Public Statements
Deal Endorsed by Georgia Teachers, Police
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 13, 2014
Location: Unknown

Deal for Governor announced today that Nathan Deal has earned the endorsements of Educators First and the Georgia Fraternal Order of Police.
"Teachers and police officers are public servants who fight on the front lines for their fellow citizens; they improve our quality of life and standard of living, and they help make Georgia the great place it is to own a business or raise a family," said Deal. "I'm honored by their support, and I look forward to working with them to help our fellow Georgians in the next four years."
Educators First cited the governor's prioritization of school funding in hard times and his second term agenda for its support.
"During his first term, Governor Deal has been committed to improving public education in Georgia," said Tana Page, executive director of Educators First. "Governor Deal is the son of two educators and the husband of an educator. In his second term, he'll continue to empower teachers and provide the resources they need to improve educational outcomes. We proudly announce our endorsement and encourage teachers across Georgia to join our efforts to re-elect Governor Deal."
Established in 2011, Educators First, Inc. is the most dynamic and fastest growing teacher's organization in Georgia. With nearly 5,000 members, Educators First provides services and protections to teachers who choose not to join teachers unions.
Thanks to Deal's determined leadership, criminal justice reform has played a critical role in his first term. Police appreciate the focus he has put on solutions that save tax dollars, improve outcomes and keep Georgians safer.
"Your record has demonstrated a commitment to the needs of Georgia law enforcement officers on a local and state level, and the Georgia FOP welcomes the opportunity to continue to work with you in the future," said Carlton Stallings, the group's president. "Our organization appreciates your continued efforts to give public safety issues the attention they deserve."

Source:
