Public Statements
Deal: PolyTech Fibers to Create 114 Jobs in Murray County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 6, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that PolyTech Fibers LLC, a Georgia-based polyester fiber manufacturer, will create 114 jobs and invest more than $12 million into its first manufacturing facility over the next three years in Murray County.
"PolyTech Fibers is an excellent addition to our state's manufacturing sector, an industry that employs more than 360,000 Georgians," said Deal. "Our No. 1 business climate, which includes a top-ranked technical workforce and solid logistics system, makes Georgia an ideal location for this company. I am confident that our state will continue to foster growth in manufacturing firms across Georgia."
The new 80,000-square-foot facility will be located at 2017 Highway 411 North in Chatsworth. With this new facility, the company plans to manufacture and distribute several kinds of regenerated/recycled polyester staple fibers for the automotive industry, as well as the filter sector, nonwoven sector and commercial/residential and high-end furnishing fillers. The jobs created will be in the areas of textile manufacturing and extrusion. Hiring will be done through TiDra staffing.
"We are excited to launch our first plant in Murray County," said PolyTech Fibers President J.Y. Choi. "Our team is made of experienced engineers and businessmen with years of production and sales expertise. For several years, we have been planning to produce top-quality polyester fibers at competitive prices. PolyTech Fibers is an employee-owned company and we have designed our operation and production to be efficient, cost effective and most importantly, safe. Within three years, our annual production capacity will reach 80 million pounds."
PolyTech Fibers LLC, founded January 2014, supplies polyester technical fibers to the manufacturing industry. With this new facility, the company will meet the demands brought about by a growing population, a booming automotive industry and innovative product applications.

Source:
