Public Statements
Deal: I-285/Ga. 400 Interchange Project Funding Plan Approved
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 30, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) approved the Atlanta Transportation Improvement Plan, which includes funding for I-285/Ga. 400 interchange project. The FHWA determined the plan met federal air quality regulations -- the final hurdle in moving the project forward and delivering congestion relief to the more than 400,000 motorists.
"These interchange improvements are crucial to improving Georgia's transportation infrastructure and expanding our role as a major logistics hub for global commerce," Deal said. "We are utilizing all the tools that the state has available -- accrued motor fuel revenues, authorized bonds, private participation through the Perimeter CIDs, Georgia's strong AAA bond rating and an improved schedule of debt payments -- to facilitate this project and provide much needed relief for commuters and area businesses. This decision is good news for Georgia, and especially the metro region. Now that our funding plan has been approved, we can begin construction on a project that will certainly provide important economic and quality of life benefits for many years to come."
The improvements include the construction of new flyover ramps, new collector-distributor lanes and other facilities to aid east-west travel on along I-285 and north-south travel along Ga. 400. The Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) estimates the design-build cost to be $1.06 billion. This past May, the governor and GDOT board members approved the sale of $130 million in previously authorized bonds and the use of $81.5 million in accrued state motor fuel funds to accelerate the project. To complete the funding of the improvements, GDOT will utilize a public-private partnership model.
"This project is a top priority for metro Atlanta, as interchange improvements will alleviate congestion, create jobs and grow businesses," said GDOT Commissioner Keith Golden. "We now have the go-ahead to move forward with these improvements, and we're excited about that. Once complete, this interchange will become a key asset to our transportation infrastructure, helping move people and goods more efficiently."
The Georgia General Assembly, the GDOT Board, the Atlanta Metropolitan Planning Organization Policy Committee, the Atlanta Regional Commission (ARC) Board, the Georgia Regional Transportation Authority Board and the Perimeter Community Improvement Districts (PCIDs) worked cooperatively to see this project through to fruition.
"This plan is the result of months of collaboration and hard work by the staff at the Georgia DOT, GRTA, local governments and ARC," said ARC Executive Director Douglas Hooker. "It's something that we should all be proud of. One of the most exciting projects in the plan is the improvement of the interchange at I-285 and Ga. 400, which can move forward more quickly thanks to the support of Governor Deal. This project alone will address probably the worst bottleneck in the region and help hundreds of thousands of metro Atlantans every day."
"Governor Deal's directive to accelerate construction for Georgia's largest surface transportation project, the congested I-285 at 400 corridor, is unprecedented," said president and CEO of PCIDs Yvonne Williams. "With approved environmental clearance underway, we look forward to a construction start in 2016. PCIDs' partnership with the Georgia Department of Transportation continues to be successful in delivering much-needed transportation infrastructure improvements to Perimeter -- Georgia's Fortune 500 center."
"All Georgians benefit from reducing congestion for commuters and freight haulers, and improvements to this important interchange will do just that," said GDOT Board Chairman Don Grantham.
"We've achieved this critical milestone with the support of many local and state partners," said GDOT Board member for the 6th Congressional District Dan Moody. "It really speaks to the leadership, perseverance and teamwork that has moved this project closer to construction."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-09-30/deal-i-285ga-400-interchange-project-funding-plan-approved
