Public Statements
Deal Lauds Gwinnett Schools for Winning $500,000 in Scholarships
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 23, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today congratulated the Gwinnett County Public Schools, which won this year's Broad Prize for Urban Education and will receive a $500,000 in scholarship money for high school seniors graduating in 2015. This annual award honors large urban school districts demonstrating the greatest overall improvement in student achievement while reducing achievement gaps among low-income and minority students.
"It's imperative that our state's students have the opportunity to achieve higher education regardless of their family's income," Deal said. "Winning this prize money will provide Gwinnett County schools the opportunity to reward deserving students who have worked hard but still need a helping hand to afford college. These scholarships will serve as a lifeline to a world-class education for many, and I'm grateful to the Broad Foundation for its strategic investment in our students and our state. I commend Gwinnett County teachers and administrators for their hard work to ensure that all students who enter their classrooms have the best shot at a good life."
The selection panel evaluated school districts on student performance data compiled and analyzed by RTI International, in addition to district policy and procedures analyzed during site visits by education consulting firm RMC Research Corp. Gwinnett County Public Schools stood out in part due to the following factors:
-Gwinnett County high school seniors had the highest SAT participation rate among the 75 Broad Prize-eligible districts, with 88 percent of all Gwinnett County seniors taking the SAT, including 90 percent of African-American seniors and 70 percent of Hispanic seniors, in 2013.
-Gwinnett County Public Schools ranked among the top 20 percent of districts statewide in 2013 for the percentage of low-income students at all education levels performing at the highest achievement level in reading, math and science.

Source:
