Public Statements
Deal: Georgia-Based TSYS to Create Up to 450 Jobs in McDonough
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 16, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that TSYS, a global payments company headquartered in Columbus, will create up to 450 jobs through a new contact center in Henry County.
"TSYS's decision to expand in Georgia is a testament to our state's top-ranked business climate and qualified workforce," said Deal. "Businesses that choose to locate here are finding it easy to expand here, and I have no doubt that our state will continue to provide this growing company with the necessary resources to remain globally competitive."
The 62,000-square-foot TSYS facility, located at 3500 Loop Road, will house a new contact center that will provide back-up capabilities for its existing center in Columbus. This expansion will offer customer service, risk and fraud management, collections, dispute and chargeback servicing, back office support and full call center servicing solutions. Slated to open later this year, the new facility will provide substantial opportunities to expand TSYS's services, supporting organic growth and generating business with new and existing clients.
"We are excited about the opening of our new center in McDonough," said Group Executive of TSYS Managed Services David Figgat. "We are confident that we will be able to attract top-notch talent from the market that will help us deliver comprehensive servicing solutions for our clients, while optimizing the overall customer experience."
TSYS supports financial institutions, businesses, governments and consumers worldwide, offering issuer services and merchant payment acceptance for credit, debit, prepaid and healthcare payments. A Georgia-based company, TSYS's global headquarters has been located in Columbus for the entirety of the company's 31-year history.
Lauren Salas Lambiase, project manager at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), supported the company on behalf of the state of Georgia along with Bob White from Henry County Development Authority.
"We are delighted that TSYS, one of Georgia's leading companies and a global leader in the financial technology services industry, has chosen Henry County for their new contact center," said Henry County Development Authority Chairman Bill Herndon. "TSYS has been recognized as one of the country's most ethical and socially responsible companies, and we look forward to welcoming them as our newest corporate citizen."
"TSYS is an excellent addition to the state's booming FinTech sector, one which employs more than 25,000 Georgians," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Our strong network of companies, skilled workforce and broadband connectivity will help propel this innovative company forward."
About TSYS
TSYS® (NYSE: TSS) believes payments should revolve around people, not the other way around, calling this belief "People-Centered Payments®. By putting people at the center of every decision it makes, TSYS supports financial institutions, businesses and governments in more than 80 countries. Through NetSpend®, A TSYS Company, TSYS empowers consumers with the convenience, security and freedom to be self-banked. TSYS offers issuer services and merchant payment acceptance for credit, debit, prepaid, healthcare and business solutions. The company's headquarters is located in Columbus, Ga., U.S.A., with local offices spread across the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. TSYS is a member of The Civic 50 and was named one of the 2013 World's Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere magazine. TSYS routinely posts all important information on its website.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-09-16/deal-georgia-based-tsys-create-450-jobs-mcdonough
