Public Statements
Real Results: Deal Brings Third "No. 1" Ranking to Georgia
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 15, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced Area Development magazine ranked Georgia as the best place in the nation in which to do business, marking the state's third "No. 1" designation. Georgia also holds the top ranking from Site Selection Magazine and CNBC. Area Development is a leading executive magazine covering corporate site selection and relocation. The ranking was based on categories including the state's business environment, labor climate, infrastructure and global access.
"I'm proud of our Area Development ranking and what it means to Georgians," Deal said. "When businesses relocate to our state, they bring private sector jobs to communities and investment to local economies. In my second term, I will continue fighting to keep taxes low, cut bureaucratic red tape, expand workforce development training. In other words, I'll fight to make sure we stay No. 1. These efforts will allow businesses large and small to grow and our state to thrive."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Deal for Governor spokeswoman Jen Talaber said the governor's record on business stands in stark contrast from his Democratic opponent.
"When Governor Deal took office, he promised to make jobs his top priority and Georgia the top state in the nation in which to do business," Talaber said. "More than 294,000 private sector jobs and three No. 1 rankings later, Deal kept his word. The National Federation of Independent Businesses, which represents small business owners across the state, pointed to the governor's pro-growth record in its recent endorsement. Georgians can count on Governor Deal to continue advancing pro-jobs, business-friendly policies that strengthen our economy and put communities back to work.
"Senator Jason Carter claims to be a friend to the business community, but once again, his rhetoric doesn't match his record."

Source: http://www.nathandeal.org/?p=857
