Public Statements
Georgia's Leading Small-Business Association Endorses Governor Deal
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 8, 2014
Location: Unknown

The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation's and Georgia's leading small-business association, today endorsed Gov. Nathan Deal for a second term. NFIB announced its endorsement at Smith Tire Co., an NFIB member business in Augusta. Deal also announced second-term initiatives aimed at encouraging growth of and protecting small businesses.
"The NFIB represents hard-working Georgians across our state, and I'm proud to receive its endorsement," Deal said. "Small business owners are the engine of our economy. These men and women represent private sector jobs and investments in their local economies, and they contribute to thriving communities. I am honored to have the support of small business owners. In my second term, I will continue fighting to keep taxes low, slash burdensome regulations and promote conditions that allow these entrepreneurs to succeed and grow."
"It's hard to find a candidate for public office who doesn't claim to support small business, but talk is cheap," said NFIB State Director Kyle Jackson. "Gov. Deal has actually done something for small business. He kept his promise to help Georgia's small businesses.
"His commitment to reducing taxes and supporting sensible regulations make him the clear choice in this year's election."
Deal for Governor spokeswoman Jen Talaber said the governor's record on business stands in stark contrast from his Democratic opponent.
"Georgia's job-creators made it clear today which candidate they trust with future of our state's economy. When Gov. Deal took office, he promised to make jobs his top priority and Georgia the top state in the nation in which to do business. More than 294,000 private sector jobs and two No. 1 rankings later, Deal kept his word. Georgians can count on Gov. Deal to continue advancing pro-jobs, pro-growth policies that strengthen our economy and get out of the way of entrepreneurs.
"Senator Jason Carter claims to support small businesses, but Georgia job-creators saw right through his empty words," said Deal for Governor spokeswoman Jen Talaber. "His failing grade from the NFIB proves that Carter's talk is, in fact, cheap.
"When small business owners were counting on Carter to defend them from onerous health care mandates, he voted no. When they were counting on him to support a federal balanced budget, entitlement reform and Right-to-Work laws, Carter voted against them. When small business owners were counting on Carter to keep taxes low, he was nowhere to be found. Rather than fight for these hard-working moms and dad, Carter played politics and took a walk on the income tax cap. Jason Carter didn't fight for small business owners in the senate, and he won't as governor either. Small business owners know that."
Deal's pro-growth record
During his first term, Deal worked hard to:
-Cut taxes on small businesses
-Balance the state budget while avoiding a tax increase
-Grow the Rainy Day Fund by more than 500 percent while maintaining a AAA bond rating
-Eliminate the state's estate tax, also known as the death tax, making it easier for entrepreneurs to pass family businesses to their children and grandchildren
-Stop the irresponsible expansion of Medicaid
-Create more than 300,000 private-sector jobs

About the NFIB endorsement
NFIB's political support is based on the candidate's position and record on small business issues. The endorsement comes from the NFIB/Georgia SAFE (Save America's Free Enterprise) Trust, the political action committee for NFIB/Georgia's membership.
Today's endorsement puts the considerable grassroots support of the state's small businesses behind the governor's campaign. Small business owners and their employees vote in high numbers and are known for recruiting friends, family members and acquaintances to vote.
NFIB will encourage its 7,000 members in Georgia to help turn out the influential small business voting bloc on Nov. 4.

Source: http://www.nathandeal.org/?p=806
