Public Statements
Governor Presents Georgia Tourism Industry Awards
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 5, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today recognized several of the state's top tourism professionals at the 2014 Georgia Governor's Tourism Conference in Augusta. Hosted by the Georgia Department of Economic Development and the Georgia Association of Convention & Visitors Bureau, the annual event gathered more than 500 of Georgia's tourism industry professionals from Georgia's convention and visitor bureaus, attractions, hotels and more.
"Tourism is a powerful job and economic development generator in our state," said Deal. "With a record $53.6 billion in economic impact, this industry employs more than 410,000 Georgians. Our tourism professionals play an instrumental role in ensuring Georgia's economic vitality, and I am thankful for their hard work and dedication."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
"Not only is the tourism industry a huge part of our department's integrated approach to economic development, but it is one of the state's strongest assets," said Georgia Department of Economic Development Commissioner Chris Carr. "Our tourism professionals are vital to the success of this industry -- it was an honor to present awards to these deserving individuals and tourism entities."
The Governor's Tourism Conference is intended to educate members of the tourism industry about travel-and tourism-related issues on a national and statewide level, focusing on emerging trends as well as ways to reinforce current tourism efforts and future initiatives. Next year's conference will take place Aug. 31 -- Sept. 2 in Savannah.
About GDEcD
The Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) is the state's sales and marketing arm, the lead agency for attracting new business investment, encouraging the expansion of existing industry and small businesses, locating new markets for Georgia products, attracting tourists to Georgia, and promoting the state as a destination for arts events and location for film, music and digital entertainment projects, as well as planning and mobilizing state resources for economic development.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-09-05/governor-presents-georgia-tourism-industry-awards-0
