Public Statements
Deal: American Textile to Create More Than 100 Jobs in Tifton
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 4, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that American Textile Company (ATC), a leading provider of innovative sleep solutions, will expand operations in Tifton, creating more than 100 new jobs and investing $10 million over the next three years.
"It comes as no surprise that American Textile Company would choose Georgia to expand its operations," said Deal. "Our state's No.1 business climate and strong network of textile manufacturing companies make it easy for industry leaders to grow. In a relatively short time, American Textile has proven to be a true team player for economic development in Tifton, and we look forward to its continued success."
The expanded 418,000-square-foot manufacturing and distribution facility currently employs 200 Georgians. With its newest expansion, ATC will grow employment and sales with a strategy to manufacture and ship most items from four strategically located sites in the United States.
"American manufacturers have traditionally faced difficult decisions when balancing cost considerations with the desire to produce in America," said ATC President and CEO Lance Ruttenburg. "Now, consumer demand for American-made products, coupled with rising freight costs and overseas wages, has made it financially viable for companies to expand in the United States. We're thrilled to be a part of this resurgence of the textile industry in the Southeast and have found Tifton to be the perfect fit for us."
ATC opened its Tifton operation in 2011, benefitting from close proximity to rail, airports and seaports. State assistance, local incentives, dependable utilities and access to a trained workforce contributed to the company's quick expansion, nearly doubling its workforce and adding 200,000 square feet two years ahead of schedule.
Brian Marlowe, the president and CEO of the Tifton-Tift County Chamber of Commerce, estimates that the company's local economic impact since opening its first plant three years ago is between $75-80 million.
"It's exciting to see American Textile Company increase capacity and investment in our community while also creating new jobs," said Marlowe. "The company has an enduring history of providing quality jobs and a solid civic presence in its respective communities. American Textile's decision to expand operations in Tift County is a strong indicator that our competitive resources and business-friendly environment continue to create significant opportunities for growth in the manufacturing sector. We will continue to work with and on the company's behalf to ensure its success."
About American Textile Company
American Textile Company is based in Duquesne, Pa. and now has five plants in the U.S. -- two in Tifton as well as Duquesne, Dallas and Salt Lake City -- and two more overseas. Family owned and operated for 89 years, its mattress and pillow encasements, pillows, comforters, mattress pads, sheet sets and blankets are sold in more than 40,000 stores, catalogs and online retailers across the U.S. and Canada.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-09-04/deal-american-textile-create-more-100-jobs-tifton
