Public Statements
Deal: 13 Georgia Cities Awarded for Outstanding Achievement
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Aug. 28, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that 13 Georgia cities were recently awarded for outstanding achievement in urban design, economic development, organizational projects and downtown promotions at the annual Georgia Downtown Conference Awards of Excellence ceremony. The ceremony, held Aug. 21 in Decatur, was the culmination of a week-long conference for the state's downtown developers.
"Our downtowns are the heart of our communities, and these award-winning cities set the standard for downtowns across the state and nation," said Deal. "A vibrant, economically robust downtown is a sign of an actively engaged community committed to enhancing its economic competitiveness and its quality of life."
The Georgia Downtown Conference promotes downtown and economic development through public awareness, governmental relations and education. Co-sponsored by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs' Office of Downtown Development and the Georgia Downtown Association, the awards and the conference provide recognition for downtown and community development professionals, and an opportunity to showcase the best of Georgia's unique downtowns each year.
"We know that great downtowns are huge economic assets to their communities," said Georgia Department of Community Affairs Commissioner Gretchen Corbin. "These awards recognize the effort and dedication of many people -- elected officials, staff, volunteers and citizens -- and encourage other communities to explore ways to enhance their downtowns."
More than 50 communities across Georgia garnered nominations this year, with 13 selected for gold, silver or bronze awards in each of the four categories. The city of Cartersville won the prestigious Downtown Development Program of the Year award for its significant work in all four categories.
"The number and quality of the awards for these outstanding projects reminds us that the hard work of each individual community, no matter how large or small, contributes to making Georgia a great state in which to live, work and play," said Georgia Downtown Association President Tommy Lowmon.
A list of award winners is included below:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
About the Department of Community Affairs
The Georgia Department of Community Affairs (GDCA) partners with communities to help create a climate of success for Georgia's families and businesses through community and economic development, local government assistance and safe and affordable housing. Using state and federal resources, GDCA helps communities spur private job creation, implement plans, develop downtowns, generate affordable housing solutions and promote volunteerism. GDCA helps low- and moderate- income Georgians with issues regarding home ownership, rental housing and homelessness prevention. For more information, visit the GDCA website at www.dca.ga.gov.
About the Georgia Downtown Association
The Georgia Downtown Association (GDA) is a non-profit association that promotes the economic redevelopment of Georgia's traditional downtowns. Through advocacy, education and marketing, GDA works to focus the public's attention on the value of downtown. GDA is an independent association that supports both public and private sector efforts targeted at enhancing Georgia's downtowns.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-08-28/deal-13-georgia-cities-awarded-outstanding-achievement
