Public Statements
Deal Announces $39.7 Million in Community Development Awards
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Aug. 19, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that 82 Georgia communities will receive a total of $39.7 million in assistance to grow their local economies. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) awarded the funding to Georgia's Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which is administered by the Department of Community Affairs (DCA).
"Strong, vibrant communities help attract companies to the state," Deal said. "The projects funded by this program will ensure successful economic development and enhance the quality of life for all Georgians. By leveraging this funding with private investment and local funds, these communities are able to maximize the opportunities offered by the CDBG program and keep Georgia the nation's top state for business."
Seventy-one Georgia communities will receive almost $35.8 million in Community Development Block Grants for infrastructure improvements, neighborhood revitalization and centers that will serve Georgia's neediest citizens. In addition, $3.9 million in CDBG Employment Incentive Program (EIP) funding was recently awarded to 11 Georgia communities to invest in redevelopment and economic development projects that are creating 1,172 jobs and $316.6 million in private investment.
Georgia's Community Development Block Grant program annually supports projects in the state's small and rural communities that create jobs and assist low- and moderate-income citizens. Awards ranging from $181,414 to $800,000 will be used for specific projects such as water, sewer, drainage or street improvements, revitalization of targeted neighborhoods, construction of health facilities and youth centers and infrastructure that supports manufacturing and other business operations. Communities are required to complete their designated project within two years of the award.
"The annual Community Development Block Grant awards are one of DCA's most well-known, competitive and far-reaching programs, touching cities and counties in every corner of the state," said Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs Gretchen Corbin. "We appreciate the vision and hard work that went into each application and look forward to working with these communities as they lay the groundwork for future growth."
About the Georgia Department of Community Affairs
The Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA) partners with communities to create a climate of success for Georgia's families and businesses through community and economic development, local government assistance and safe and affordable housing. Using state and federal resources, DCA helps communities spur private job creation, implement planning, develop downtowns, generate affordable housing solutions and promote volunteerism. DCA also helps qualified low- and moderate- income Georgians buy homes, rent housing and prevent foreclosure and homelessness. For more information, visit www.dca.ga.gov.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-08-19/deal-announces-397-million-community-development-awards
