Public Statements
Governor: Total Quality Logistics to Create 75 Jobs in Fulton County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Aug. 19, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Total Quality Logistics (TQL), a leading freight brokerage company, will create 75 new jobs and invest $1 million into an Atlanta facility over the next three years.
"Our state is absolutely the right choice for innovative companies such as this one to find success and remain competitive," said Deal. "Total Quality Logistics will benefit not only from our business-friendly environment and top-ranked workforce, but also our widely recognized logistics infrastructure. We welcome TQL to Atlanta and look forward to a great partnership."
The company will rent office space in midtown Atlanta and the 75 jobs created will primarily be sales positions. The new TQL office represents the company's first presence in Georgia. This facility will allow the company to provide better transportation and logistics services to its customers.
"It is important for us to locate in states that are committed to economic development and job growth," said TQL Executive Vice President Kerry Byrne. "Our national satellite offices are extremely important in our ability to grow market share and continue to be the leading service provider in the third party logistics industry."
Director of technology industry development at the Metro Atlanta Chamber Gregg Simon, senior project manager at Georgia Power Brenda Robbins and the Life Sciences and Corporate Solutions team at the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) assisted the company in locating to Georgia.
"Atlanta's skilled workforce and leading global cargo hub at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport make our city an ideal location for one of the largest freight brokerage firms in the nation," said Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed. "We look forward to welcoming Total Quality Logistics and to expanding our region's economic growth."

Source:
