Public Statements
Deal: State Bond Sale Nets Low Rates
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 20, 2014
Location: Washington, DC

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that the state of Georgia successfully sold $982.905 million in four different series of general obligation bonds to fund new construction projects and equipment, to make repairs and renovations to existing facilities throughout the state, and to refund outstanding bonds to achieve debt service savings.
"These bonds were sold at very low interest rates given current market conditions and that translates into savings for Georgia's citizens," said Deal. "The state's AAA bond ratings -- the highest possible -- enable us to invest in vital infrastructure projects throughout the state in a fiscally responsible manner and to refund outstanding bonds to reduce the debt service payments."
The Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission, which is responsible for issuing the state's bonds, approved the sale of the bonds at its meeting today. All the bonds were sold on a competitive bid basis with investors showing strong demand for Georgia's bonds.
The state secured rates of 0.87 percent for the five-year tax-exempt bonds, 1.78 percent for the 10-year tax-exempt bonds, and 3.03 percent for the 20-year tax-exempt bonds, with a blended rate of 2.90 percent. Some bonds were sold as taxable bonds, with those rates at 1.33 percent for the five-year taxable bonds and 3.49 percent for the 20-year taxable bonds, with a blended rate of 3.35 percent. $13.75 million bonds were sold as taxable Qualified School Construction Bonds -- the federal government reimburses the state for the interest paid on those bonds, which brings the effective rate down to zero percent.
The largest amount of funding is to provide $283 million for local school system K-12 and state schools projects. Higher education projects will receive $208 million. These bonds also will fund $153 million for transportation projects, $50 million to make loans to cities and counties for water and sewerage system and reservoir projects, $18 million to fund water supply projects, and others. A complete list of the funded projects is available on the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission website.

Source:
