Public Statements
Deal: Budget Prioritizes Cybersecurity, Education, Public Safety
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 11, 2017
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today released his budget recommendations to the General Assembly for the amended current and upcoming fiscal years. The proposed budgets would bolster resources for cybersecurity, education, public safety, health care, economic development and efficiency in government.
"The $25 billion in state appropriations included in this budget reflect conservative fiscal principles and the solid economic growth Georgia continues to enjoy," said Deal. "By focusing on key priorities such as cybersecurity, education and public safety, we are taking necessary steps to protect our citizens and ensure that our fiscal responsibility translates into sustained economic growth across the state. I look forward to working with the General Assembly to turn these recommendations into a budget that will serve the needs of Georgians while promoting the long-term economic health of the state."
Amended FY2017 budget highlights include:
$50 million for a new Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center, located on a state-owned property in Augusta, in partnership with state and federal agencies, as well as the private sector to create a secure environment for cybersecurity education programs, testing and training.
$27.3 million for a 20 percent increase in salary for law enforcement officers as well as additional increases for public safety trainers and criminal investigators to reduce turnover and improve recruitment.
$10 million to support heavy equipment purchases and modernization in the Forest Protection program to aid in preventing and combating wildfires.
$24.7 million for one-time funding to replace various vehicle types in the Department of Public Safety, Department of Community Supervision, Georgia Department of Corrections, Georgia Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Juvenile Justice.
$108.7 million in new state general and motor fuel funds for transportation resulting from HB 170 (2015 Session).
$10 million in one-time funds for the Georgia Transportation Infrastructure Bank.
$15 million for Forestland Protection Act grants.
$111.2 million for a mid-term adjustment for QBE growth.
FY2018 budget highlights include:
$160 million in additional funds for 2 percent teacher salary increases.
$117.4 million for performance incentives for high-performing employees, employee recruitment or retention initiatives for state agencies.
$55.4 million for a 20 percent salary increase for law enforcement officers as well as additional increases for public safety trainers and criminal investigators to reduce turnover and improve recruitment.
$162.6 million in new state general and motor fuel funds for transportation.
$20.8 million for autism services for children for Medicaid.
$17.9 million for primary care and OB/GYN codes.
$2.5 million for behavioral health services for children ages 0 to 4.
If approved, the governor's fiscal year 2018 budget would, for example, provide teachers with a well-deserved 2 percent pay raise. The additional $160 million for this purpose, combined with other funding, would bring the new total of additional funding for K-12 education over the past four fiscal years to more than $2.017 billion.

The budgets as proposed would also provide for targeted salary increases for critical personnel who help ensure the health, safety and well-being of Georgia citizens, including law enforcement officers, criminal investigators, Department of Family and Children Services caseworkers and environmental health personnel. These salary increases will assist the state in recruiting and retaining skilled, experienced employees in these vital roles. Additionally, these budgets continue to advance Georgia's criminal justice reform efforts, expand access to higher education opportunities and promote Georgia as a top destination for businesses that create jobs.

The General Assembly will use the governor's recommendations as a starting point to develop and pass the state's budget, which the governor will then sign or veto. The governor can also veto line items within the as-passed version. The final budgets specify how much state funding various agency programs will receive. The current fiscal year ends June 30, and fiscal year 2018 begins July 1.

Links to electronic versions of the Governor's Budget Reports can be found on the Office of Planning and Budget's website here.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2017-01-11/deal-budget-prioritizes-cybersecurity-education-public-safety
