Public Statements
Deal: Georgia Named No. 1 Most Competitive State in Nation
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 6, 2014
Location: Washington, DC

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that Georgia was named the No.1 most competitive state in the nation by Site Selection magazine.
"When I took office in January 2011, I made a promise to the people of Georgia that we wouldn't stop until our state was the No. 1 place in the nation to do business," said Deal. "We earned that designation in November for the first time ever, and now we're adding "most competitive' to our accomplishments. These rankings are not only a testament to our strong business climate, but they also speak to the commitment and support from our industry partners, communities and the people of Georgia."
The magazine releases its Top 10 Competitive States every year in May. The Top 10 Competitive States ranking is based on an index of 10 criteria, most of which are tied to new projects and expansions tracked by Site Selection's New Plant Database.
"Remaining competitive is key to staying ahead in the global marketplace," said Chris Carr, commissioner of the Georgia Department of Economic Development. "With critical factors such as a qualified workforce, solid logistics infrastructure and connections in key international markets, it's no surprise that Georgia outranks other states in this category and our state continues to be the best choice for industry-leading companies."
Site Selection's Top 10 Competitive States has given Georgia 426 points -- 12 more than the 414 that won last year's first place. Last year, Georgia ranked as the nation's third most competitive state and has remained in the top 10 most competitive states since 2010.
Site Selection states that what makes a state competitive is the total number of new and expanded facilities; capital investment in new and expanded facilities; new jobs created; rank in the corporate real estate executive portion of the 2013 Site Selection Business Climate Ranking; state tax climate as ranked by the Tax Foundation; performance in the Beacon Hill Institute's State Competitiveness Index and the number of National Career Readiness Certificates per 1,000 residents aged 18-64, according to ACT -- Workforce Development Division, administrator of the ACT Certified Work Ready Communities initiative.
Site Selection magazine, published by Conway Data Inc., delivers expansion planning information to 49,000 executives of fast-growing firms. The senior publication in the development field, Site Selection is also available online at siteselection.com. The publication also co-publishes e-newsletters, including The Site Selection Dispatch, Life Sciences Report, Aerospace Report and Energy Report; Site Selection International; The FDI Report; Trust Belt.com and the OnSITE Travel blog.
Conway Data is an international publishing, consulting and association management company headquartered in Atlanta. Conway also owns and manages London-based Red Hot Locations, organizer of worldwide FDI events; Berlin-based FDI advisory firm Terrain Consulting; New York-based The PONT Group, a leading PR and lead-generation firm; economic development education and research organization the Janus Institute; and manages the Industrial Asset Management Council and the forthcoming FDI Association, launching in November 2013.

Source: https://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-05-06/deal-georgia-named-no-1-most-competitive-state-nation
