Public Statements
Governor Signs Third Leg of Criminal Justice Reform
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: April 13, 2014
Location: Gainesville, GA

At Antioch Baptist Church in Gainesville today, Gov. Nathan Deal signed into law Senate Bill 365, legislation that will help rehabilitated offenders successfully re-enter society by removing barriers to employment, housing and education.

"Building on the success of the landmark criminal justice reforms passed in the 2012 and 2013 sessions, the General Assembly and the Criminal Justice Reform Council worked with me to revolutionize Georgia's criminal justice standards and strengthen our state's economy," Deal said. "The incentives and re-entry programs included in this legislation are cost-effective strategies that will increase the number of former offenders returning to the workforce and supporting their families."

The new law requires the Board of Corrections to create and implement a program and treatment completion certificate to assist adult offenders with re-entry into society upon release from prison. In order to earn the certificate, the offender must complete any required treatment plan and vocational training while in prison and comply with any re-entry plan while on probation or parole. This bill states that employers demonstrate due care when hiring ex-offenders that earn this certificate, providing them a certain level of immunity from negligent hiring liability that often drives hiring decisions.

This legislation also provides judges with the discretion to deviate from the automatic license suspension for minor drug offenses. This discretion is only available when the drug offense was not directly related to the operation of the motor vehicle and is contingent upon the offender's completion of any and all treatment programs.

"It is counterproductive to devote the state's resources to rehabilitating nonviolent offenders and then deny them the ability to independently travel to their place of work," Deal said. "This legislation strikes the proper balance between opportunity and accountability. Along with the previous two phases of my criminal justice reform, this law will pay dividends to taxpayers and improve the quality of life for all Georgians."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-04-13/governor-signs-third-leg-criminal-justice-reform
