Public Statements
Deal Requests Federal Disaster Relief for Storm
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 26, 2014
Location: Unknown

In the wake of the destructive winter storm Feb. 10-14, Gov. Nathan Deal today submitted a request to President Obama for federal disaster relief for the 48 counties where the combined damage estimates exceed $43 million.
"The storm brought destructive levels of ice that far exceeded anything we've seen in decades, and state and local agencies had to mobilize significant resources to protect lives and property and get Georgia back to normal as quickly as possible," Deal said. "The costs associated with this storm far exceed the federal threshold for a disaster declaration. These are significant expenses for the state, and a declaration by the president will allow us to recoup 75 percent of the eligible costs with federal assistance. We greatly appreciate the cooperation we've received from FEMA in this response effort."
The 48 counties are: Baldwin, Bartow, Bulloch, Burke, Butts, Candler, Carroll, Cherokee, Cobb, Columbia, Coweta, Dade, Dawson, DeKalb, Emanuel, Fayette, Forsyth, Fulton, Gilmer, Glascock, Hancock, Haralson, Heard, Jasper, Jefferson, Jenkins, Johnson, Jones, Lamar, McDuffie, Meriwether, Monroe, Morgan, Newton, Paulding, Pickens, Pike, Polk, Richmond, Screven, Spalding, Upson, Walker, Warren, Washington, White, Whitfield and Wilkes.
The winter storm brought exceptional amounts of ice, which led to fallen trees, debris and broken power lines, created treacherous driving conditions and harmed numerous critical facilities. The storm required response from state and local officials and the activation of the Georgia State Operations Center.
Prepared by joint federal, state and local assessment teams, Georgia's Preliminary Damage Assessment reports an estimated eligible public assistance amount of $43 million. These estimate were developed from data provided by the EMCs, state agencies and joint Preliminary Damage Assessment teams.
Deal has designated GEMA Director Charley English as the State Coordinating Officer for this request. English will work with FEMA to assess any further damages and provide additional justification if need be.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-02-26/deal-requests-federal-disaster-relief-storm
