Public Statements
Deal: Daniel Defense to Create 120 Jobs in Bryan County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 23, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that Daniel Defense, a leader in small arms manufacturing, will expand its existing operations in Black Creek adding 120 new jobs and investing $20 million into the project over the next five years.
"Georgia's strong manufacturing sector has supported Daniel Defense for more than a decade," said Deal. "I have no doubt that Georgia's No. 1 business climate and highly qualified workforce will continue to help keep innovative companies such as Daniel Defense at the forefront of the industry."
In 2000, DD began in a small manufacturing facility in Chatham County and moved all operations to Bryan County in 2009. Today, with significant growth at the Bryan County facility, DD expects to employ a total of 284 Georgians by 2018. The expansion will support DD in better serving its customers across the country.
"I am very pleased to announce this expansion of Daniel Defense in Bryan County," said Marty Daniel, President and CEO of Daniel Defense, Inc. "Thanks to the loyalty of our customers, end users, vendors and employees, the company has become an industry leader in designing, manufacturing and providing Small Arms SolutionsTM to the marketplace. We look forward to our future growth while continuing to add jobs and investment in Georgia."
Alyce Thornhill, project manager at the Georgia Department of Economic Development, worked closely with DD in planning the expansion and led the project for the State of Georgia. The Development Authority of Bryan County also partnered with GDEcD. The company will benefit from Quick Start, Georgia's top-ranked workforce training program.
"We are thrilled that Daniel Defense has decided to expand in Bryan County's Interstate Centre," said Steve Croy, chairman of the Development Authority of Bryan County. "Daniel Defense's expansion is a testament to the qualified and available workforce we have in the Bryan County area. We look forward to working with Daniel Defense as they continue to grow jobs and create new investment in the community."
"Georgia has a solid reputation for attracting manufacturing companies -- big and small -- who are looking to increase their presence in the United States," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "With this newest expansion, Daniel Defense will take advantage of our superb logistics infrastructure, a committed community and other pro-business resources that will help them meet increasing demands."
About Daniel Defense
In 2009, owner Marty Daniel opened a state-of-the-art, 38,000-square-foot manufacturing facility located in Black Creek. Daniel had multiple concepts and designs for products that he thought would greatly improve the versatility and efficiency of certain firearms. Unable to find these products in the commercial market, he designed and created sling loops and rails in small batches and soon found the demand for these types of products were much greater than he could have ever imagined. Now, DD has become a leader in the industry, operating two locations, one in Georgia and one in South Carolina.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2014-01-23/deal-daniel-defense-create-120-jobs-bryan-county
