Public Statements
Deal Releases Digital Learning Task Force Recommendations
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Dec. 18, 2013
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today released the final report of recommendations from his Digital Learning Task Force. Formed by Deal in April 2012, the task force developed a cohesive strategy to improve student achievement through digital learning implementation across the state.
"Georgia students need 21st century skills to succeed in our economy, and digital learning can help provide those skills," Deal said. "The task force recommendations provide a strong framework for digital learning that will increase student achievement and broaden choices for Georgia students and parents."
The recommendations include increasing broadband access to all Georgia schools, encouraging the transition from textbooks to digital content, aligning all course options to ensure that students and parents have clear information about what course choices are available to them, and funding pilot blended learning projects through the Innovation Fund, which is housed at the Governor's Office of Student Achievement. In addition, the task force recommends that the state create a funding mechanism and assessment system that provides the flexibility required for students to progress through courses when they master standards, rather than all at the same pace.
"The Digital Learning Task Force has provided a roadmap for strengthening the educational opportunities for Georgia students," said John Bailey, executive director of Digital Learning Now!. "The Task Force challenges the state to fully embrace competency-based education and blended learning models."
Consisting of a broad cross-section of education stakeholders in the state, the task force met eight times over the last year to examine the current state of digital learning in Georgia and develop recommendations. The meetings included presentations from national, state and district digital learning experts as well as tours of locations in the state having success implementing digital learning.
The Governor's Office now will review the recommendations with key stakeholders to determine next steps.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2013-12-18/deal-releases-digital-learning-task-force-recommendations
