Public Statements
Deal: Toyo Tire Creates 650 Jobs in Bartow Expansion
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Dec. 6, 2013
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today at the Toyo Tire North America Manufacturing, Inc. (TNA) facility in White that the company will expand its current facility, creating a total of 650 new jobs and $371 million investment into the project over the next four years.
"Georgia's strong automotive manufacturing sector helps innovative companies such as Toyo Tire," Deal said. "The company's commitment to Georgia over international competition speaks to the high level of our pro-business climate and solid relationship with our international partner, Japan. I have no doubt that this state-of-the-art manufacturing company will continue to grow in the industry."
The expansion of TNA will add 700,000 square feet to its current 2-million-square-foot manufacturing plant by the end of 2017. At the same time, TNA will expand the warehousing footprint by 30 percent. These expansions will significantly increase the company's production and warehousing capacity to meet the growing demand within North America. Once completed, the expanded facility will continue to manufacture premium light truck and passenger car tires.
"We are proud to manufacture tires for North America, in North America," said Jim Hawk president, Toyo Tire North America Manufacturing, Inc. "This plant, and the people who work in it, play an important role in supporting consumers and our dealers as the demand for our products continues to grow. This fourth expansion will help us answer that demand."
Toyo Tire, founded in 1945 and headquartered in Japan, has been operating in the North American market for nearly 50 years. In 2004, the company established its first North American manufacturing plant near White. Since the first tire rolled off the line in 2006, it has more than doubled the size of the facility through expansion projects and grown from 81 employees to more than 1,000 employees.
The Bartow-Cartersville Joint Development Authority assisted with the Toyo Tire expansion, along with Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD)'s Director of International Projects Scott McMurray and GDEcD Project Manager of Existing Industry and Regional Recruitment Carl Campbell, who both led the state's project team.
"We are honored that Toyo Tire has approved a further expansion in Bartow County," said Steve Taylor, Bartow County Sole Commissioner. "They have been a great corporate partner for the community, having already created more than 1,000 jobs, and will soon have invested nearly $1 billion. We are proud that they continue to believe in Bartow, as we do in them."
"It is no surprise that Toyo Tire would choose to expand its facility in Georgia," said Chris Carr, commissioner of GDEcD. "Our advanced workforce and No. 1 business climate create the ideal location for a fast-growing company to increase production and remain competitive."
About Toyo Tire North America Manufacturing, Inc.
Both high performance passenger car and light truck tires are produced at the state-of-the-art facility. Products include Toyo Proxes速 ST II, Toyo Open Country速 A/T II, Toyo Open Country M/T速, Toyo Proxes 4 Plus, Nitto速 Grappler, Nitto NT 420S and Nitto NT 555.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2013-12-06/deal-toyo-tire-creates-650-jobs-bartow-expansion
