Public Statements
Deal: Aspen Products Inc. Creates More Than 200 Jobs in Bibb County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Nov. 22, 2013
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that Aspen Products Inc., a major private label paper manufacturer, will open a manufacturing facility in Macon, creating more than 200 jobs and investing $13 million into the project.
"Innovative companies such as Aspen Products Inc. make an excellent addition to our ever-growing manufacturing network," said Deal. "Georgia is perfectly positioned to support major manufacturers across the globe, and we have no doubt that the nation's No. 1 business climate will help Aspen Products succeed."
The 200,000-square-foot Aspen Products facility, located in Airport Industrial Park, will manufacture paper plates, cups, bowls and lunch bags. Production for the facility will start early 2014 and the hiring process has already begun. Persons interested in vacant positions should contact the Department of Labor.
"I believe Macon to be a perfect fit for Aspen Products," said Shannon Walls, Plant Manager, East Coast Division, Aspen Products. "Everyone from our team that has been a part of this project has shared the same sentiment. We have been welcomed with open arms and made to feel like this new town was full of old friends. We very much look forward to getting production up and going and becoming part of the local community."
Aspen Products serves major retailers, private labels and food service companies across the United States and has a large customer base in the Southeast. The company uses the latest technologies in production, design, graphics and printing to provide specially made paper products to its customers.
The Macon Economic Commission assisted with the project, along with Walt Farrell, project manager at Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD), who assisted the company on behalf of the state.
"Macon's location in Georgia and the Southeast region makes it an ideal location for industries to locate or expand, and our sense of community provides a great place for employees to live and raise their families," says Macon Mayor Robert Reichert. "I am excited for Aspen Products to join our community and for their investment in our future as the hub city of the region."
"Aspen Products' decision to locate its newest facility in Georgia highlights the importance of maintaining a competitive business climate for manufacturers," said Chris Carr, commissioner of GDEcD. "Our unmatched logistics infrastructure and ready-to-work talent pool are magnets for fast-growing manufacturing companies and we look forward to seeing Aspen Products take advantage of these resources."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2013-11-22/deal-aspen-products-inc-creates-more-200-jobs-bibb-county
