Public Statements
KOPLA to Create 150 Jobs in Harris County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Nov. 19, 2013
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that KOPLA, a Korean-based automotive manufacturer, will open its first U.S.-based manufacturing facility in West Point, creating 150 jobs and investing $15 million into the project by 2018.

"We are proud that Korea's presence in our state continues to grow," said Deal. "Our booming automotive industry and key business resources create a perfect location for KOPLA and we have no doubt that this state-of-the-art automotive manufacturer will continue to succeed."

The 100,000-square-foot facility will be constructed on 20 acres of the Northwest Harris Business Park. Once in operation, the plant will supply engineering plastics resin to leading automobile manufacturers across the U.S. The company plans to utilize Georgia Quick Start, an internationally acclaimed workforce development program that offers customized workforce training, free of charge. The Columbus Chamber of Commerce will assist KOPLA with the hiring process.

"We are very pleased to be locating our first U.S. manufacturing plant in West Point, Ga.," said KOPLA President and CEO Sangyong Han. "It is a perfect location, and the state and community support has been exemplary. We look forward to becoming a part of this thriving industrial community in Georgia."

The Valley Partnership, the City of West Point Development Authority and the Harris County Development Authority collectively assisted with the project. Yoonie Kim, project manager at Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) International Projects team, along with Hee-jung Shin, project manager at GDEcD office in Seoul, assisted the company on behalf of the state.

"The City of West Point welcomes KOPLA to the Northwest Harris Business Park," said West Point Mayor Drew Ferguson. "West Point continues to have success as a member of a team that includes the State of Georgia, Harris County, the Valley Partnership and the West Point Development Authority. KOPLA's new facility will certainly have a positive impact here and we wish them much success."

"We extend a gracious welcome to KOPLA and look forward to a long and mutually beneficial partnership with our newest corporate citizen," said Harris County Commission Chairman Harry Lange. "The state and the local community continue to work well together, and this is yet another successful venture that brings jobs and capital investment into the region."

"Georgia's dynamic automotive sector has gained another quality international company," said Chris Carr, commissioner of GDEcD. "KOPLA's decision to locate its first U.S. facility in Georgia speaks to the strength of our logistics infrastructure and quality workforce."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2013-11-19/kopla-create-150-jobs-harris-county
