Public Statements
Deal: New Online Services Remove Need for Second Trip to Driver's License Office
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 7, 2013
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that more internet services are available to Georgia driver's license and ID card holders from the Georgia Department of Driver Services. Customers can now provide additional residency information and/or Social Security information through the secure DDS website, www.dds.ga.gov, eliminating the need for a return trip to complete their permanent driver's license or ID issuance.

"I applaud Commissioner Rob Mikell and the entire DDS team for initiating this time-saving customer service feature while ensuring Georgia continues to produce one of the most secure licenses in the country," said Deal. "Our citizens deserve to have the highest degree of safety measures in place to safeguard their identity, and DDS is committed to achieving that goal in a customer-friendly manner and in compliance with federal regulations."

With the new SecureID Program, which are Real ID Homeland Security compliant licenses and ID Cards, customers can expect to present documentation to establish identity, a name change, citizenship or lawful presence in the United States, a Social Security number, and two documents to prove their residential address. Customers who presently hold a Georgia license or ID are issued an extended temporary license or ID until they return with any pending information.

DDS has been particularly focused on ensuring that each customer brings two proofs of their residential address along with their identity and Social Security number documentation. Approximately 20 percent of renewal customers historically have needed to return for a second visit to DDS to provide one or both proof of address documents.

"The summer months are historically a very busy time at DDS's customer service centers," Mikell said. "These additional online services will save many customers a return visit and, in turn, will help us manage the additional demand."

Breakdown of the process

Customers may access the caption "SecureID: Submit proof of residency or Social Security" from the DDS homepage http://www.dds.ga.gov/index.aspx and on the DDS Online Services Page (https://online.dds.ga.gov/OnlineServices/Account/Login.aspx).

First, customers are instructed to create or logon to their existing DDS online account. DDS's first priority is to maintain the security of all personal information to ensure that a customer's internet experience is as safe and secure as doing business in person.

The next step after the login process is to select the "gold star" icon titled "SecureID: Submit proof of residency or Social Security." Customers will immediately be able to review their status of pending documentation and are instructed how to upload the required information. Directions to fax or mail the additional residency or Social Security information are also provided.

A follow-up email will alert customers when their license or ID has been processed for a permanent card to be mailed. Customers can expect to receive their permanent license and/or ID card within two weeks from the time they receive the DDS's email verifying all required documents have been processed.

For more information visit www.dds.ga.gov or check the DDS facebook page.

Source:
