Public Statements
Deal: Efforts for DeKalb's students can now move forward
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 4, 2013
Location: Unknown

After a federal judge today removed a stay on Gov. Nathan Deal's decision to remove six members of the DeKalb County school board, the governor said the process he began last week will move forward. Deal also announced that the State Transportation Board member from the 4th Congressional District, Robert Brown of DeKalb County, will join Brad Bryant as a second liaison to the county's school board to monitor progress.
"The court's decision today will allow us to take the next steps toward protecting the futures of DeKalb's students and maintaining the school system's accreditation. I agree with the judge's opinion that "the harm from the loss of accreditation to the School District and the resulting harm to the students in the district are profound,'" Deal said. "Time is of the essence because we cannot have this cloud hang over the county or the state. The nominating panel appointed last week will continue to collect applications through Wednesday, and it will get to work quickly on filling the open seats so the board can become a functioning body.
"Given the gravity of this situation, I greatly appreciate Robert Brown accepting my request to serve as a liaison to the DeKalb board. He and Brad Bryant will make a great team to work with me, the DeKalb board and Superintendent Michael Thurmond to make sure that the system puts the students first."
Robert L. Brown, Jr.
Brown is president and chief executive officer of R L Brown & Associates, Inc., a business providing comprehensive professional services in architecture, planning, interior design and construction management. He currently serves on the State Transportation Board, representing the 4th Congressional District. Brown has chaired various boards such as the Georgia Chamber of Commerce, the Fulton-DeKalb Hospital Authority, the Georgia State Board of Corrections, and the Georgia Partnership for Excellence in Education. In 1999, he was elevated to the American Institute of Architects prestigious College of Fellows. Brown has been recognized as Small Business Person of the Year by the Metro Atlanta Chamber of Commerce, Entrepreneur of the Year by the Atlanta Business League, one of the "100 Most Influential Citizens" by Georgia Trend, and is a past-recipient of the Ivan Allen Sr. Award from the American Institute of Architects. He is a charter member of 100 Black Men of DeKalb. A graduate of Tuskegee University, Brown and his wife, Barbara, have two children. They reside in DeKalb County and attend Beulah Baptist Church.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2013-03-05/deal-efforts-dekalb%E2%80%99s-students-can-now-move-forward
