Public Statements
Ernst & Young to open global IT center in Alpharetta
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 20, 2013
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that the Ernst & Young organization is opening a global IT center in Alpharetta, investing $8.5 million and expanding the organization's presence in Georgia with 400 new jobs.

"Georgia's talent, affordability and willingness to embrace and support cutting-edge innovation have drawn quite a wave of technology-focused investment lately," said Deal. "When a company with the highly recognizable brand that EY carries chooses Georgia for its expansion, it's a powerful statement."

EY, a global leader in assurance, tax, transactions and advisory services, will lease space on Lakewood Parkway in Sanctuary Park. Renovations will create a global IT center, fostering a collaborative and flexible work environment to deliver high-quality services. Over the next five years, EY will add 400 high-quality IT positions in Georgia through a combination of new hires and job relocations, including project managers, business analysts, software architects, software developers, system analysts, executives, managers and other support positions.

"Tech and IT services are critical to serving our clients and enable our people in our day to day work," said Susan Bell, Atlanta Office Managing Partner of Ernst & Young LLP, an EY member firm. "EY is thrilled to be establishing a global IT center in the state of Georgia, and we are excited about the positive impacts of these highly skilled jobs in our firm and our community."

According to the Technology Association of Georgia, software and IT is the largest sector of the state's workforce and economy, with telecommunications and high-tech equipment close behind. Specifically, Atlanta has received national recognition in this industry, being ranked among the top 10 cities on several lists for IT, tech and start-up jobs and companies.

"EY's expansion is yet another success story for the partnerships and collaborations that help our companies grow here. We are delighted EY recognizes the strength of Atlanta's technology sector and workforce and has chosen to locate a global IT center here," said Hans Gant, the vice president for Economic Development at the Metro Atlanta Chamber. "We are pleased to be celebrating this good news with EY and with the partners who helped bring this deal together."

"We are excited to welcome EY to Alpharetta, the Technology City of the South," said David Belle Isle, mayor of Alpharetta. "This decision serves as a continuing reminder that more and more global companies look to Alpharetta as the No. 1 city to locate their technology efforts."

The Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) partnered with the City of Alpharetta, the Metro Atlanta Chamber of Commerce and the Development Authority of Fulton County to facilitate this expansion project for EY. Lauren Salas, senior project manager with GDEcD's Corporate Solutions team, assisted the company on behalf of the state.

"EY's expansion in Fulton County underlines a vested interest in the metro region and reinforces the company's long-term strategic position in our economic region," said Maceo Rogers, president of the Development Authority of Fulton County. "The Atlanta region offers a strong technology workforce with high-tech firms that have solidified Fulton County's sustained economic growth, and this expansion will certainly add to that success."

Georgia has become a hub for shared services and information technology. GE Energy, ThyssenKrupp, NCR, Novelis, CBS and GM and several other companies have located or expanded operations in these sectors within the last two years.

"In terms of available workforce, technology and expertise in these fields, Georgia can compete with any state in this country -- or with any other country, for that matter," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Cummiskey. "Judging from our recent successes, companies comprehend that our knowledge workers and business resources are second to none."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2013-02-20/ernst-young-open-global-it-center-alpharetta
