Public Statements
Deal: The Weather Company to Create 400 Jobs, Relocate Headquarters to Atlanta
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Nov. 16, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that The Weather Company, an IBM Business, will create 400 jobs and relocate its headquarters from Cobb County to DeKalb County in the spring of 2017.
"The Weather Company has made significant contributions in Georgia for more than three decades," said Deal. "The company's decision to expand its workforce in the metro Atlanta area is a reflection of our state's ability to retain dynamic companies with our business-friendly environment and highly skilled workforce. We look forward to our ongoing relationship with The Weather Company and its continued success in Georgia."
The Weather Company, acquired by IBM in January, helps some of the world's largest brands in aviation, energy, insurance and media, as well as government, anticipate and respond to the impact of weather on operations.
The newly created jobs include positions in software and product development, engineering, technology and marketing, among others. The new headquarters will be located at Perimeter Summit at 1001 Summit Blvd.
"The combination of technology and expertise from The Weather Company and IBM is progressing well as we create additional value for the clients of both companies," said Cameron Clayton, The Weather Company CEO and general manager. "The additional hiring and the move to a new headquarters are indicative of the support and investment that IBM is providing to attract and retain the best and brightest as we build this amazing business."
The Weather Company produces some of the most reliable global forecasts available today, utilizing sophisticated models to analyze data worldwide. The company combines more than 100 terabytes of third-party data each day and the Weather Underground's network of more than 200,000 individual weather stations to create its projections.
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) Director of Existing Industry and Regional Recruitment Lindsay Martin represented the Global Commerce division in partnership with the Metro Atlanta Chamber and Georgia Power.
"We are excited that The Weather Company, a leader in the technology industry, is expanding their operations here," said GDEcD Commissioner Pat Wilson. "We thank The Weather Company for their growth and confidence in the Atlanta area, and look forward to supporting them as they continue to provide weather data to millions of consumers and thousands of businesses around the world."
About The Weather Company
The Weather Company, an IBM Business, is the world's largest private weather enterprise, helping people make informed decisions -- and take action -- in the face of weather. The company offers personalized and actionable weather data and insights to millions of consumers, as well as thousands of marketers and businesses via Weather's API, its business solutions division, and its own digital products from The Weather Channel and Weather Underground.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-11-16/deal-weather-company-create-400-jobs-relocate-headquarters-atlanta
