Public Statements
General Motors to create 1,000 jobs in Roswell
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 10, 2013
Location: Unknown

Company to open new IT Innovation Center facility to aid its global business, investing $26 million
Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that General Motors will open an IT Innovation Center in Roswell creating 1,000 high-tech jobs and investing $26 million. The move is part of GM's company-wide shift to a new operating model to support its global business goals.
"I am immensely proud that our bright university students as well as our skilled veteran workforce are attracting innovative multinational companies such as General Motors to Georgia," said Deal. "As a workforce-rich, technology-focused state, Georgia has attracted a cluster of such global innovation centers, and is ideally suited to helping GM achieve its business goals. GM's strategic decision to locate here moves us closer to becoming the No. 1 place in the nation in which to business. "
GM will purchase a 228,000-square-foot former UPS facility on Warsaw Road in Roswell for the Innovation Center, the third of four such centers it is opening in the United States to strengthen its internal innovation capabilities as part of the company's transformation to improve performance, reduce the cost of on-going operations and increase its delivery of innovation. The company has already located other IT centers in Austin, Texas, and Warren, Mich., and the location of a fourth site will be announced at a later date. Most of GM's functions have been outsourced during the past three decades.
"Locating this Innovation Center in Atlanta makes good business sense because we can draw from a deep pool of local talent," said GM Chief Information Officer Randy Mott. "These Innovation Centers will design and deliver IT that drives down the cost of ongoing operations while continuously increasing the level and speed at which innovative products and services are available to our GM customers."
GM will hire software developers, project managers, database experts, business analysts and other IT professionals for the Innovation Center in Roswell. The company will begin recruitment immediately and anticipates adding approximately 1,000 new employees, recent college graduates as well as seasoned professionals, over the next three to five years.
"Georgia Tech and GM have partnered in everything from research projects to student innovation competitions," said Georgia Tech President Bud Peterson. "We look forward to even greater collaborations, as well as exciting career opportunities for graduates from University System institutions in GM's new innovation center right here in the Metro Atlanta area. Georgia Tech is committed to working with industry to support their research and innovation goals, as well as with the state to continue to attract and retain business and industry, creating jobs and growing our economy."
The Georgia Department of Economic Development partnered with the city of Roswell to assist GM with its location. Blair Lewis, director of the Corporate Solutions group at the Georgia Department of Economic Development, was the project manager for the state.
"Roswell is excited about General Motors' purchase from UPS of a 228,000-square-foot building on Mansell Road designed and wired for high-tech employees," said Roswell Mayor Jere Wood. "We look forward to GM bringing good jobs and new families to our city. We thank Governor Deal, his Economic Development Office, the Roswell Business Alliance, and the North Fulton Chamber of Commerce for bringing this opportunity to Roswell."
"It's great to have a significant General Motors presence in the state once again. I'd like to thank all the partners who had a hand in helping the company locate and bring these high-quality jobs that are perfect for our high-quality workforce," said Chris Cummiskey, commissioner of the Georgia Department of Economic Development.
General Motors Co. (NYSE:GM, TSX: GMM) and its partners produce vehicles in 30 countries, and the company has leadership positions in the world's largest and fastest-growing automotive markets. GM's brands include Chevrolet and Cadillac, as well as Baojun, Buick, GMC, Holden, Isuzu, Jiefang, Opel, Vauxhall and Wuling. More information on the company and its subsidiaries, including OnStar, a global leader in vehicle safety, security and information services, can be found at http://www.gm.com.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2013-01-10/general-motors-create-1000-jobs-roswell
