Public Statements
Korean auto supplier to create 660 jobs in Meriwether County, investing $80 million
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Dec. 21, 2012
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that Mando Corp. will construct a new casting facility in Meriwether County, investing $80 million and creating 660 jobs by 2020. Deal called on Mando at its Seoul headquarters during his business mission to Korea in the fall of 2011.
"It was a pleasure to meet with Mando's leaders in Korea and learn about the company's plans for growth," said Deal. "Because Mando has an existing facility here, it was quick to realize how Georgia's business resources are an advantage for an international company looking to expand. This decision moves us closer to making Georgia the No. 1 place in the nation in which to do business."

The new 317,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art casting facility in Meriwether Industrial Park will further expand Mando's footprint in the United States, supporting the company's manufacture and assembly of a new line of energy-efficient automotive parts. This casting facility will initially serve Mando's Machining/Electric Power Steering Gear/Electronic Stability Control Module facility in North America.

Since the mid-1980s, much of the casting business in the United States has moved overseas, but Mando's expansion into the casting business in Georgia will enable the company to better serve its facilities and its customers in the United States, including Hyundai, Kia, Chrysler and General Motors, among others. The company will use a high-tech, clean process that is electric furnace-driven, and is working with the state's Environmental Protection Division to identify best practices and ensure they will be met at this facility. The company will once again utilize the services of Georgia Quick Start, the top-ranked customized workforce development program in the United States, to train its employees to its standards.

Mando Corp. initially selected Meriwether County for its third U.S. manufacturing operation in September 2011 and has invested $200 million in a facility that created more than 400 jobs. It selected the Meriwether location for its expansion after a competitive search. With this expansion, Mando will become the largest employer in Meriwether County.

"We are extremely pleased that Mando has chosen our county to locate the new facility, and we certainly appreciate the investment and the new jobs they will create," said Meriwether County Commission Chairman Nancy Jones. "I am so proud of the total spirit of cooperation by all parties, to make this expansion happen and grow our industry in Meriwether County."

"It's exciting to see this great partnership between Meriwether County and Mando creating more jobs in our community," said chairman of the Meriwether County Industrial Development Authority Robert Moreland. "This is a tremendous economic boost for our county as well as the region."

Mando was assisted with its expansion by the Georgia Department of Economic Development, the Meriwether Industrial Development Authority and the Meriwether County Commission. Georgia Department of Economic Development project manager EJane Caraway led the state's project team. Hee-jung Shin, director of the state's Korean office, also assisted with the project.

"Georgia's labor climate is ranked No. 1 in the nation, so it's not surprising that our existing industries are thriving," said Georgia Department of Economic Development Commissioner Chris Cummiskey. "It's important to note, though, that partnerships like the ones in this part of the state play a critical role in growing companies while retaining jobs in Georgia."

About Mando Corp.
Mando Corp. is a global automotive parts supplier based in Seoul, Korea. It is currently owned and operated by the original founding parent company, HALLA Group. Mando manufactures brake, steering, suspension and driver assist systems. Mando's global sales revenue for this year is expected to exceed $5 billion with 8,900 employees worldwide. Mando has manufacturing and research and development locations in Korea, India, China, Japan, Malaysia, Brazil, Poland, Germany, Turkey and the U.S. Mando operations in the United States will have more than $860 million in sales revenue this year with close to 650 employees currently located in Georgia, Alabama and Michigan.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2012-12-21/korean-auto-supplier-create-660-jobs-meriwether-county-investing-80
