Public Statements
Georgia to Shape National Supply Chain Competitiveness Strategy
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 12, 2012
Location: Unknown

State's Center of Innovation director appointed to federal advisory committee on logistics, Deal announces
Gov. Nathan Deal today congratulated Georgia Center of Innovation for Logistics Executive Director Page Siplon on his appointment to the newly formed U.S. Advisory Committee on Supply Chain Competitiveness. Recognizing the state of Georgia as a leader in logistics and supply chain competitiveness, Acting U.S. Secretary of Commerce Rebecca M. Blank appointed Siplon only weeks after he was named by DC Velocity Magazine to its "2012 Logistics Rainmaker" list, which annually recognizes the top 10 logistics professionals in the nation.
"I am pleased the U.S. Department of Commerce is engaging private industry so closely in efforts to shape the competitive strategy of our nation's supply chains," said Deal. "Here in Georgia, logistics is a solid cornerstone of our competitiveness and has been a major factor in creating new jobs and prosperity for companies in every corner of our state. Page's leadership of our Center of Innovation for Logistics continues to pay dividends to our focused economic development efforts, and we are excited to have him now represent our state on this important national committee."
Deal nominated Siplon for the committee. Siplon's appointment represents the state of Georgia and he is one of only two committee members selected from the Southeast.
The Advisory Committee on Supply Chain Competitiveness will act as a liaison between industry and government, and is an important step toward ensuring regular contact with the supply chain industries, including manufacturers, distributors and exporters. The committee's advice will also be useful in the development of a national freight policy and in executing the National Export Initiative, which aims to double U.S. exports by the end of 2014.
This unique committee will offer detailed policy and technical advice, information and recommendations to the secretary of Commerce regarding:
National, state or local factors that inhibit the efficient domestic and international movement of goods from point of origin to destination and the competitiveness of domestic and international supply chains
Infrastructure capacity, inter- and cross-modal connectivity, investment, regulatory, and intra- or inter-governmental coordination factors that affect supply chain competitiveness, goods movement and sustainability
Emerging trends in goods movement that affect supply chain competitiveness
Metrics that can be used to quantify supply chain performance
Committee members are recognized leaders and represent a wide range of supply chain expertise from companies like Campbell Soup, Hewlett-Packard, General Electric, Pfizer, Target and Office Depot, as well as national industry associations and experts from academia. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa P. Jackson will serve on the committee as nonvoting members. The committee will hold its first official full meeting on Oct. 19 in Washington.
"I am honored to join such an esteemed group of industry experts and leaders on this new advisory committee," said Siplon. "I look forward to being actively involved and helping our industry here in Georgia compete and grow in yet another capacity. As an industry-focused division of the Georgia Department of Economic Development, the Center of Innovation for Logistics directly assists companies to overcome challenges and capitalize on opportunities related to the movement of freight. The center provides focused expertise, specific industry data, connections to state resources and an extensive cross-sector industry network."
"The Centers of Innovation program is an important part of the state's economic development strategy and a competitive advantage for Georgia," said Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Economic Development Chris Cummiskey. "Page's appointment to this panel will certainly raise the program's profile and help companies understand the Georgia's wide range of tools to help them grow."
For more information on Georgia's logistics industry and events, visit www.georgialogistics.com.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2012-10-12/georgia-shape-national-supply-chain-competitiveness-strategy
