Public Statements
Deal Praises Public Servants Involved in Recovery of Child
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 28, 2012
Location: Unknown

Governor says tragic Lanier accident highlights need to lower legal blood alcohol limit levels for boating and hunting
Upon the recovery of Griffin Prince's body from Lake Lanier last night, Gov. Nathan Deal praised the heroic efforts of law enforcement officials involved and declared he'll work to lower Georgia's legal blood alcohol levels for boating and hunting.
"I would like to express my most sincere gratitude to all of those who have worked around the clock in response to this tragedy. The members of state, local and federal law enforcement, as well as the volunteers, involved in the recovery of Griffin Prince proved their dedication to not only their jobs, but also to the good of mankind. For this I am thankful.
"Sandra and I are saddened by these senseless deaths. Having been blessed with four children of our own, we cannot imagine what it means to lose two children. To the Prince family, we express our deepest sympathy and offer our prayers during this most difficult time.
"The current blood alcohol limit of .10 for boating and hunting is far too high. As a state, we need to have one level across the board. When the General Assembly convenes in January, I will work with the House and Senate to pass legislation that lowers the legal limit to .08 for boating and hunting -- in line with the legal limit for driving a vehicle. As governor it is my priority to protect Georgians to the best of my ability and enforce the law. Far too many tragedies have occurred as a result of boating under the influence, and we must take the necessary steps to keep people safe.
"Lastly, with the Fourth of July right around the corner, I ask that boaters take this tragedy into serious consideration while celebrating during the holiday. Safety must be a priority at all times. I assure you that state and local officers will work cooperatively to arrest violators of boating laws. In fact, the Department of Natural Resources on Wednesday signed an agreement with Gwinnett County to work jointly on enforcement. That's an example of how I want this to work."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/00/press/detail/0,2668,165937316_184598707_186700408,00.html
