Public Statements
Deal: Anthem, Inc. to create 1,800 jobs in Midtown Atlanta
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal, along with Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed, today announced that Anthem, Inc., one of the nation's largest health benefits companies, will create approximately 1,800 information technology-related jobs in establishing an IT services hub in Midtown Atlanta. Anthem will invest more than $20 million in the community throughout the next six years.
"As Georgia continues to grow its reputation as the nation's top destination for the health IT industry, major companies like Anthem continue to strategically position themselves here," said Deal. "Georgia's qualified workforce and the collaborative partnerships on both state and local levels will allow Anthem to improve customer outreach while maintaining its competitive edge on a national scale. We value Anthem's investment in Georgia and look forward to the company's plans for renewed growth and significant expansion."
Anthem's new facility will be located at the Bank of America Plaza, allowing for close collaboration between the IT hub and the Anthem Innovation Studio that recently opened in Tech Square. Anthem's decision to establish a collective IT workforce environment in Atlanta will allow for the expansion of consumer access to high-quality, affordable health care through a next-generation IT strategy centered on modernization, digitization and innovation.
"For more than 75 years, Anthem companies have invested in the Georgia workforce. Atlanta has become known as an innovation hotbed, with research facilities, incubators and start-ups in a highly concentrated area," said Tom Miller, senior vice president and chief information officer of Anthem, Inc. "We're looking forward to opportunities for partnerships that help transform health care and support exceptional consumer experiences. Additionally, this allows us to tap into the IT talent pipeline in this state."
"I am excited that Anthem has chosen Atlanta for its consolidated IT business, where the company will have access to a base of highly skilled workers and a thriving business community focused on building for the future," said Reed. "This move demonstrates that Atlanta is the region's leader in technology and IT talent. This year alone three major Fortune 500 companies have established IT and innovation centers in our city."
"Atlanta's continued attraction of significant information technology centers is a testament to our city's strong knowledge-based economy, which is fueled by an educated and skilled workforce that has driven steady job growth for many years," said Dr. Eloisa Klementich, president and CEO of Invest Atlanta. "In addition to a strong base of talent, Atlanta offers companies and their employees a high quality of life and low cost of living that surpasses other major metropolitan areas."
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) Director of Life Sciences and Corporate Solutions E. Jane Caraway represented the Global Commerce division in partnership with Invest Atlanta, Deloitte, the Metro Atlanta Chamber and Georgia Power.
"Anthem's announcement represents the eighteenth information technology or software development operation to set roots in Georgia within the last year, representing approximately 4,500 new quality Georgia jobs," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "We are excited about this new growth, and we look forward to helping Anthem fill these quality jobs with Georgia's highly-skilled talent."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-10-26/deal-anthem-inc-create-1800-jobs-midtown-atlanta
