Public Statements
Energy Industry Supplier to Create 60 Jobs in Jefferson County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 28, 2012
Location: Unknown

PyraMax Ceramics to open manufacturing plant near Wrens, investing $140 million
Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Texas-based PyraMax Ceramics, LLC will invest $140 million in a manufacturing operation near Wrens. The company manufactures and distributes a ceramic pellet, known as "proppant," for use in major U.S. oil and gas fields. PyraMax will create 60 new jobs at this facility along with numerous indirect mining, transportation and services positions.

"We are committed to making Georgia the No. 1 state in the nation to do business and a central plank in our strategy is to boost the manufacturing sector," said Deal. "In Georgia, PyraMax will find a progressive business infrastructure, a highly skilled workforce and an abundance of natural resources that will help the company continue to provide the best product to its customers in the energy sector. I am proud that Pyramax chose to locate and manufacture here."

The PyraMax Jefferson County manufacturing plant will produce ceramic proppant beads for use in the oil and natural gas drilling industry. The new 200,000-square-foot facility will include two process lines each consisting of a raw material preparation system, pelletization and kiln systems, loading operations and best-in-class proprietary environmental controls. The manufacturing process will use raw materials found in abundance in Georgia soil, with an expected annual output of 500 million pounds.
"PyraMax Ceramics is excited about locating our manufacturing facility in Wrens, Ga. The local community has shown us overwhelming support as we move forward with our initial construction," said Don Anschutz, President of PyraMax Ceramic, LLC. "State and local officials, the Georgia Department of Economic Development and strategic businesses worked hand-in-hand to create a mutually beneficial business environment that led us to our decision to build in Georgia."
PyraMax purchased 190 acres at the Kings Mill Commerce Park in Jefferson County. This community is known for its skilled workforce, strong business climate and abundance of natural resources that PyraMax will leverage in the production of its ceramic proppant.

"Jefferson County is proud of the many organizations and agencies that worked tirelessly to bring this industry to the state," said Bill Easterlin, chairman of the Development Authority of Jefferson County. "The Development Authority, the Board of Commissioners and all of the cities demonstrated their commitment by working together, as well as with the state. In looking forward to the new job opportunities, Jefferson County is committed to collaborating with the Jefferson County Center of Oconee Fall Line Technical College to utilize the readily available workforce."

The Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) partnered with Jefferson County to manage the PyraMax Ceramics location process. GDEcD senior project manager Adela Kelley managed this project on behalf of the state.
"The PyraMax Ceramics project illustrates how some of Georgia's best assets -- workforce, business climate and natural resources -- can intersect to bring significant opportunities to our state," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Cummiskey. "Georgia continues to work aggressively to be among the most competitive places for business nationwide and PyraMax's decision to locate here is a great indicator that we're moving in the right direction."
The company will work with Georgia QuickStart, the state's nationally recognized workforce training initiative, to receive process-specific workforce training at its Jefferson County plant.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/00/press/detail/0,2668,165937316_181257882_182751781,00.html
