Public Statements
Starbucks Manufacturing Operation to Create 140 jobs in Augusta
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 21, 2012
Location: Augusta, GA

Premier coffee retailer selects Richmond County for its first ever soluble plant, investing $172 million
Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Starbucks Coffee Company is planning to invest $172 million in its first Georgia manufacturing plant in Augusta. Starbucks expects to create more than 140 direct jobs, as well as hundreds of indirect jobs associated with construction, transportation and supply chain activities.
"The fact that Starbucks selected Georgia to locate this first-of-its-kind plant makes a very compelling statement about our state's competitive business environment," said Deal. "We are committed to making Georgia the No. 1 state in the nation to do business, and Starbucks will have many growth opportunities here. This news is even more welcome at a time when we are working aggressively to boost our manufacturing sector. These jobs will have a near-immediate impact in Augusta and also statewide as indirect jobs are created in the future."

The new Augusta plant, Starbucks fifth manufacturing facility in the United States, will be the company's first owned and operated facility in the world to produce soluble products, such as VIA® Ready Brew, ingredients for Frappuccino® and many of Starbucks ready-to-drink (RTD) beverages. Once fully operational, this manufacturing plant will prepare and package ingredients and finished products for most of the company's soluble-based beverages for all of North America and parts of Europe. The new, state-of-the-art facility is expected to offer employment opportunities in a range of highly skilled positions.

"Starbucks has long believed that there is a strong relationship between our success and the strength and vitality of the communities in which we do business," said Howard Schultz, Starbucks chairman, president and ceo. "With an abundance of skilled workers, a great quality of life, convenient access to transportation and strong support from local and state leaders, Augusta is an ideal location for our newest manufacturing facility. We're proud to be expanding our connection with the Augusta community and to be creating American manufacturing jobs during such challenging economic times."
The Starbucks soluble products manufacturing operation will locate on 100 acres in the Augusta Corporate Park in Richmond County. Designed to be a 110,000 to 160,000-square-foot, LEED® certified building, the plant will be capable of producing up to 4,000 metric tons annually. Starbucks will be the first tenant in the Augusta Corporate Park. The company will also leverage Georgia's high-performing logistics infrastructure and is expected to make significant use of the Savannah Port.
"With today's announcement, Starbucks joins an outstanding corporate community in Augusta and Richmond County as a major manufacturer of quality products," said Augusta Economic Development Authority Chairman Henry Ingram. "The jobs announced today and the jobs to be created in the months and years to come will have a major impact on our community. We are proud that Starbucks chose Augusta."

The Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) led this effort for Georgia in collaboration with the Augusta Economic Development Authority. GDEcD Global Commerce division director, Tom Croteau, managed this business opportunity on behalf of the state.
"Starbucks decision to choose Georgia as the site of its new soluble products facility is a positive indication of the steady growth of manufacturing and food processing in our state," said Georgia Department of Economic Development Commissioner Chris Cummiskey. "Georgia will provide this company with best-in-class resources and a competitive business environment that fits Starbucks commitment to provide the best products to its global customers."
The Augusta facility is expected to open in January 2014, with construction to begin this spring.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/00/press/detail/0,2668,165937316_181257882_182523598,00.html
