Public Statements
Logistics Solution Provider Creating 173 New Jobs in Dunwoody
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 16, 2012
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that CHEP USA, the industry leader in pallet and container pooling solutions and a part of Brambles Limited, will relocate its headquarters to Atlanta. The company plans to bring 173 jobs to the new facility over the next five years.
"Georgia has many natural benefits and other strategic resources that make our state an attractive location for companies in the logistics industry," said Deal. "CHEP and other logistics service providers understand that our state has significant capabilities to support this industry, so we are indeed glad to welcome this new headquarters operation to Georgia."
CHEP manages pallet and container supply chain logistics for its customers in the consumer goods, produce, meat, home improvement, beverage, raw materials, petro-chemical and automotive industries. The company is a recognized leader in pallet and container pooling services for well-known brands. CHEP partners with a myriad of companies to develop pallet and container management solutions that ensure reduced product damage, offer enhanced delivery efficiencies, eliminate waste and reduce supply chain costs.

"We are delighted to join the Atlanta business community. Georgia offers CHEP excellent proximity to many of our key customers, provides advantages in recruiting and attracting talent into our organization and offers an outstanding quality of life for our employees who will relocate," said President of CHEP USA Kim Rumph. "We look forward to becoming actively involved in the community."
The CHEP USA headquarters operations will be located in office space in Dunwoody and will also be the base for other leaders from the Americas Region and global functions of the Pallets business segment. In addition, the space will also serve as a Brambles regional office with members of the Brambles IT leadership team.

"Dunwoody is excited that a company of CHEP's reputation and international reach selected our city as its new U.S. headquarters," said Dunwoody Mayor Michael G. Davis. "The company's selection of Dunwoody highlights the city's strategic attributes in terms of workforce recruitment, outstanding amenities and convenience to almost anywhere in metro Atlanta."
The Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) collaborated with the City of Dunwoody and the Metro Atlanta Chamber to secure this business opportunity for Georgia. GDEcD senior project manager Lauren Salas oversaw this project on behalf of the state.
"In addition to the metro Atlanta region's presence as a global logistics hub, this area is also ripe with talent and other significant resources for headquarters operations," said Georgia Department of Economic Development Commissioner Chris Cummiskey. "Georgia works aggressively to remain among the best places to do business, so CHEP's decision to locate its headquarters here is a great result of those ongoing efforts."
CHEP expects the facility to be operational by the fall of 2012 and is actively recruiting for open positions in the Atlanta area.
About CHEP
CHEP is a global leader in managed, returnable and reusable packaging solutions, serving many of the world's largest companies in sectors such as consumer goods, fresh produce, beverage and automotive. CHEP's service is environmentally sustainable and increases efficiency for customers while reducing operating risk and product damage. CHEP's 7,500-plus employees and 300 million pallets and containers offer unbeatable coverage and exceptional value, supporting more than 500,000 customer touch-points in 49 countries. Our customer portfolio includes global companies and brands such as Procter & Gamble, Sysco, Kellogg's, Kraft, Nestlé, Ford and GM. CHEP is part of Brambles Limited.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/00/press/detail/0,2668,165937316_181257882_182369975,00.html
