Public Statements
Global Vehicle Supplier Creating 250 New Jobs in Dublin
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 15, 2012
Location: Unknown

Denmark-based Dinex Group opens first U.S plant in Georgia, investing $15 million
Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that the Denmark-based Dinex Group plans to open a manufacturing plant in Dublin-Laurens County. The automotive emissions control and exhaust manufacturer will create 250 jobs and invest $15 million in this operation.
"Automotive suppliers are leading the way for the manufacturing rebound in Georgia and we have companies such as Dinex to credit for that," said Deal. "Our state is uniquely equipped to help manufacturers compete globally, so I am especially glad to welcome this company to Georgia."
The Dinex Group is a leading global manufacturer and distributor of innovatively engineered exhaust and emission control products and solutions for the heavy-duty diesel engine and vehicle industry. The company's Dublin facility will be its first in the United States and will produce exhaust and emission systems for the off- and on-road markets for diesel engines in North America. Dinex's customers include Caterpillar, Carrier, John Deere, Case New Holland and Volvo among several others. Dinex will also develop a full range of products for the truck and bus aftermarket (AEM) in North America.
Following an extensive multi-state search for the right U.S. business location, including more than 50 site visits, Dinex decided on Dublin for a number of reasons. "Georgia's pro-business community met our requirements with respect to logistics, access for our suppliers, operating costs, workforce and quality of life," said Dinex Vice President and CFO Kim Toft Jensen.
"By the end of September 2012, we will have capabilities to supply quality products "Made in the USA' to our customers across the U.S.," said President and CEO Torben Dinesen. "We are anxious to grow our customer base in the U.S. and we are confident in the continued support from the state of Georgia and Laurens County."
Dinex will collaborate with Quick Start, Georgia's nationally recognized workforce training program, to train the company's workforce on a range of advanced manufacturing applications. Quick Start provides tailored and industry-specific training resources free of charge to qualified new, expanding and existing companies creating new jobs in Georgia. The Dinex manufacturing plant will be located in a 60,000-square-foot facility in Dublin and expects to expand by more than double within the next five years.
"Our community is thrilled to have another proven European company to locate in Dublin and Laurens County," said chairman of the Dublin-Laurens County Development Authority Jimmy Allgood. "We are fortunate to have the quality workforce in this area which Dinex needs to operate successfully in the U.S."
The Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) collaborated with the Dublin-Laurens County Development Authority to secure this project. GDEcD director of advanced manufacturing, Bill Dobbs, and senior project manager, Andrew Neumann, coordinated this project on behalf of the state.
"Georgia's resources for advanced manufacturers are significant and we consider this decision by Dinex as a proof point of our abilities to help global companies compete here and abroad," said Georgia Department of Economic Development Commissioner Chris Cummiskey. "From our highly skilled workforce to advanced logistics network, Dinex will find in Georgia an infrastructure capable of helping it meet current and future customer needs."
Dinex was also assisted by Binswanger Real Estate Solutions, the Trade Council of Denmark and the Royal Danish Consulate under the advisement of the Honorary Consul General Christopher N. Smith in Macon.
"Through our partnership with the Trade Council of Denmark, we are actively working to attract Danish companies to Georgia," Smith said. "Dinex is a fabulous addition to the growing list of Danish companies who have chosen Georgia as their home in North America."
As positions become available at Dinex, interested applicants may apply and get additional information at the Laurens County Department of Labor.
About Dinex Group
Established in 1982, Dinex has experienced massive growth from a small exhaust system manufacturer to the leading supplier in Europe of complete exhaust systems and emission technologies. Dinex's vision is to become the heavy duty market leader in modern emission technology worldwide. Dinex supplies complete exhaust systems -- from turbo to tailpipe -- for trucks, buses, vans and industrial machines. In addition, Dinex offers a variety of emission technology products for this range of applications. Dinex operates within the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM), Original Equipment Spare Parts Supply (OES) and Aftermarket segments (AEM). To serve the European aftermarket, Dinex subsidiaries functioning as regional sales companies and distribution centers are located in Germany, United Kingdom, France, Italy, Spain, Poland, Latvia, Russia, and Turkey. The company operates in a total of 14 countries.
The Dinex Group is located in all major European countries and is headquartered with Group Management and production located centrally in Denmark. Further production facilities are situated in Latvia, United Kingdom, Germany, Russia, Turkey and China. www.dinex.dk

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/00/press/detail/0,2668,165937316_181257882_182314038,00.html
