Public Statements
Deal: State to Partner with Google to Aid Businesses
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 20, 2012
Location: Unknown

Georgia's small enterprises will receive free website and online tools to establish internet presence
Gov. Nathan Deal today announced a partnership with Google that will bring free websites to small businesses throughout Georgia. "Georgia Get Your Business Online" will help drive economic growth by giving Georgia businesses the tools and resources to establish a website, find new customers, and grow.
"This new initiative will help grow small businesses in Georgia and provide business owners a valuable resource at no cost," said Deal. "One of the best ways we can help our economy expand is to help Georgia businesses increase their visibility online."
Georgia Get Your Business Online is an easy, fast and free way for Georgia businesses to get online. For the next year, participating Georgia businesses can go to www.georgiagetonline.com to get a free website as well as free tools, training and resources to help their business succeed online. Google is partnering with Intuit to provide its popular Intuit Websites offerings that include an easy-to-build website, a customized domain name and free web hosting for one year.
While 97 percent of Americans look online for local products or businesses, 54 percent of Georgia small businesses do not have a website.
"The perception that getting online is complex, costly and time-consuming has prevented many Georgia small businesses from taking the first step," said Scott Levitan, Director of Small Business Engagement at Google. "This program makes it fast, easy and free for businesses to get online."
"As a leading provider of small business solutions, we have witnessed the growth small businesses have seen from getting online," said Ralph Matlack, Group Product Manager at Intuit. "We are excited to offer Intuit Websites for free to all the wonderful small businesses in Georgia and to help them create a customized presence that represents their unique brands."
"We are very excited about the opportunity Google is giving local businesses by offering free websites and training. While Georgia already has successful international airports and deep water ports, the internet and Google resources give our businesses additional opportunities to expand and grow throughout the world," said Allan Adams, State Director of the Georgia Small Business Development Center.
Georgia is the latest state to participate in Google's Get Your Business Online. The program is expanding across the United States, and is also in 23 countries including Great Britain, Canada, Ireland, Australia, Thailand, Brazil, Spain, Germany, Belgium, France, Italy, Hungary and Poland.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/00/press/detail/0,2668,165937316_180136645_181565858,00.html
