Public Statements
Deal Releases Georgia Competitiveness Initiative Report
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 25, 2012
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today released comprehensive recommendations to ensure the short- and long-term success of job creation and business growth in Georgia. The final report of the Georgia Competitiveness Initiative, which will help shape Deal's economic development strategy for the state, outlines statewide opportunities, strategies and action steps as well as insights into the unique needs of each of the state's 12 regions. Visit www.georgiacompetitiveness.org to read the full report.
"Our goal is for Georgia to be the No. 1 state in the United States for business," said Deal. "Thanks to the input from thousands of business leaders in every region, we now have the information we need to develop and implement strategic changes to the state's existing assets, to ensure we continue to outpace our competition around the Southeast and the nation."
The initiative examined six key factors identified by site selectors as the most important influencers in corporate location and expansion decisions: infrastructure; innovation; education and workforce development; friendly business climate; global commerce; government efficiency. The final report identifies opportunities, strategies and action steps in each of these categories.
Education and workforce development was, by far, the category cited by survey respondents as the most critical area in need of attention. The Governor's Office of Workforce Development has already launched the "Go Build Georgia" program in response to feedback about the need for workforce in the skilled labor trades.
To enhance Georgia's business climate, the governor has proposed several legislative changes to the state's statutory incentives, including sales and use tax exemptions on energy used in manufacturing and for construction materials for competitive projects. Deal has also proposed a modernization of Georgia's job tax credit structure.

Source:
