Public Statements
Deal: Daniel Defense to create 75 new jobs in Bryan Co.
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 19, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Daniel Defense, a manufacturer of firearms and accessories, will create 75 new jobs and invest $29.5 million to expand existing operations in Bryan County. The facility expansion is set to be finished by the end of summer 2017.

"Daniel Defense's expansion in Bryan County is another example of Georgia's business-friendly environment providing a foundation for sustained growth," said Deal. "In this expansion, Daniel Defense is creating jobs for Georgia citizens and investing in resources that will enable the company to continue to grow."

Daniel Defense was founded by Marty Daniel more than a decade ago in Chatham County. In 2009, Daniel Defense scaled operations and moved into the present facility in Bryan County. As a result of a continued increase in production demand, Daniel Defense will consolidate the Bryan County facility and Ridgeland, S.C., facility into a single operation.

"This consolidation will streamline our operational efficiencies on many different levels and will allow us to continue to grow our team," said Daniel Defense president and CEO Marty Daniel. "It is very important that we attract, hire and retain exceptional talent. This new facility will allow us to do just that, and continue to accelerate our market share in the firearms business."

The expansion will create jobs in areas including machining, engineering, assembling and marketing.

"We are very pleased Daniel Defense has chosen to consolidate their operations in Georgia and specifically into a new facility in Interstate Centre in Bryan County," said Derrick Smith, chairman of the Development Authority of Bryan County. "The consolidation will bring the company to 215 total employees in Bryan County. We are excited to work with Daniel Defense as they grow their business and continue to invest and create quality jobs in the community."

Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) project manager Alyce Thornhill represented the Global Commerce division in partnership with the Development Authority of Bryan County and Georgia Power.

"Georgia's pro-business environment allows manufacturing companies -- big and small -- to thrive here," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Daniel Defense's decision to consolidate their manufacturing facilities in Georgia is a testament to our well-connected logistics network and highly-skilled workforce, and we look forward to working with our partners in Bryan County to support the company in future growth."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-10-19/deal-daniel-defense-create-75-new-jobs-bryan-co
