Public Statements
Deal: AAA Rating Yields Historically Low Rates
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Aug. 22, 2011
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal announced today that Georgia has once again received triple-A bond ratings from all three major municipal bond rating agencies. The rating helped to secure low borrowing costs in the state's largest-ever competitive offering of $997 million.
Georgia is one of just eight states -- the others are Delaware, Iowa, Maryland, Missouri, North Carolina, Utah and Virginia -- with the coveted triple-A ratings from all three rating agencies.
Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch all have assigned the top bond ratings with stable outlook to the state, with individual ratings being Aaa, AAA and AAA, respectively. A triple-A rating is the highest rating available to a bond issuer.
"This rating is a reflection of the state's commitment to sound fiscal management," said Deal. "Retention of the top bond ratings allows the state of Georgia to continue to save millions of taxpayer dollars because of the low interest rates we are able to secure."
The bond ratings came in advance of the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission's approval on Tuesday of the competitive sale of $556 million of general obligation bonds. The bonds include three series of tax-exempt debt for new capital projects totaling $479 million and $77 million of federally taxable Qualified School Construction Bonds.
The state was able to lock in an all-in true interest cost of 0.93 percent for 5-year bonds, 1.97 percent for 10-year bonds and 3.44 percent for 20-year bonds. The QSC Bonds were sold with an interest rate of 3.96 percent; the federal government provides a 100 percent interest rate subsidy on these bonds.
Capital projects being funded through the series 2011A, 2011B and 2011C bonds include new equipment for law enforcement agencies, a new library at Armstrong Atlantic State University, a biology building at Georgia Southern University, a health and human sciences building at Georgia Southwestern University, a new classroom building at Altamaha Technical College's Brunswick campus and repairs and renovations to many of the state's university and college campuses.

Source:
