Public Statements
New U.K. Relationship May Boost State's Economy: Deal Announces UK Trade & Investment to Establish Base in Georgia
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 18, 2011
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal and Lord Stephen Green, Minister of State for Trade and Investment, announced today from London that UK Trade and Investment (UKTI) will establish an office in Georgia to promote trade and foreign direct investment opportunities between the United Kingdom and the state.
"The United Kingdom is and will remain a strong business partner for the state of Georgia. The ties that bind us grow stronger each year, benefiting both economies," said Gov. Deal. "In this mission to the United Kingdom, I hope to build on our firm foundation of friendship and trust to further opportunities that will create jobs and profitable investment opportunities."
UKTI, part of the British Government, helps U.K.-based companies succeed in international markets and overseas companies bring high-quality investment to the country. The UKTI will be co-located with the British Consulate-General in downtown Atlanta. An officer is in place temporarily for the months of May and June to undertake preparation for the launch of the full-time trade office opening in early July with a team of two full-time trade officers. UKTI has been operating in Georgia through regular visits of trade officers from its Miami location.
"Trade and investment is at the heart of the UK's growth strategy and we see great prospects for further growth of British business links with Georgia and across the Southeast," said Lord Green. "That is why we are pleased to announce today an expansion of our UK Trade and Investment team in Atlanta to further develop these opportunities to the benefit of jobs in both our countries."
Deal and Lord Green made the announcement during the governor's first international mission since taking office. His visits to Liverpool and London are helping develop strategic partnerships with the United Kingdom to support job growth in both countries.

Source:
