Public Statements
Fox News "Your World Cavuto" - Transcript
Interview
By: Nathan Deal
Date: April 29, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

CONNELL MCSHANE, GUEST HOST: And it is not just Alabama that is reeling from all of these twisters. Georgia got hit especially hard as well, 15 people killed in that state, dozens of homes leveled. And the governor of Georgia, Nathan Deal, just issuing an emergency declaration. He joins us now.Governor, are -- what do you need right now in your state? And are you getting what you need?
GOV. NATHAN DEAL, R-GA.: Well, first of all, we hope that the president will soon sign off on the emergency declaration. I have submitted that to him. We have 16 counties that I declared to be emergency areas.And with the president's signature, it'll allow federal money to come in to our local communities so we can have the funds necessary for the recovery.
MCSHANE: Well, we just saw this devastation from John Roberts in his report in Alabama. And, as he said, and as President Obama said when he visited that state earlier today, have never seen anything like it before.Describe what's happening in Georgia right now and what the biggest hurdles are for you, what you need to get done.
DEAL: Well, first of all, we think that there were, perhaps, as many as 11 tornadoes. We think eight have actually been confirmed that literally that went from the middle of our state all the way across the top of our state. The most deadly force was in the northwestern corner. We had some eight fatalities in Catoosa County there close to the Tennessee line. But the thing that we need the most right now is federal assistance. Our local law enforcement and firefighters and emergency personnel are expending their resources, as is the state of Georgia itself. And we need to have some additional revenue to assist in this recovery effort. We hope, long term, that, also, our people will qualify for federal assistance, for low-interest loans, so that they can begin to restore their homes and rebuild their businesses.
MCSHANE: Right. Because I read, I think, yesterday, it was 52,000 people were without power. Are you making any progress in terms of getting people's electricity at least turned back on at this point?

Source:
