Public Statements
CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript
Interview
By: Nathan Deal
Date: April 28, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
MALVEAUX: Cities and states around the South are surveying the damage from ferocious and deadly weather that ripped across the region. Tornadoes and storms killed more than 230 people, 11 in Georgia.
Joining us on the phone is Governor Nathan Deal. He is in Ringgold, Georgia, where he is getting a look at the situation there.
And Governor, I know that you had just completed an aerial tour. Can you tell us what you saw, the extent of the damage?
GOV. NATHAN DEAL (R), GEORGIA: Well, the damage is horrendous. We have toured primarily the northwestern corner of the state, and we will be going back south in just a few minutes to see the damage that was there.
As you may know, we had multiple tornadoes that went across our state yesterday. The confirmed death toll I am told now is up to 14 in Georgia, and we have declared some 16 counties as emergency areas for assistance. We are certainly fortunate that we did not have any more deaths than we did, and I think a lot of that is attributed to the fact of the early warnings and people taking shelter, because this was a series of devastating tornadoes that came across our state, and the property damage and the loss of homes and businesses is a tremendous loss to our state.
MALVEAUX: Governor, can you give us a sense of whether or not there are any crews that are still searching for people who may be trapped or missing? Do we have a sense of whether or not there are still people out there alive who are under rubble?
DEAL: We are told that there are still searches ongoing, that there are some individuals who are unaccounted for. We don't know if they are simply trapped somewhere or not, but that is an ongoing search and rescue effort being done by state, as well as local, law enforcement officials and EMS and fire service people. So it is an ongoing effort.
MALVEAUX: Do you have any idea how many people are unaccounted for?
DEAL: No, I really don't. I hope there are not very many, but we do know that there are some who are still unaccounted for.
MALVEAUX: Are there places where people could go to register or to communicate with each other to say, hey, I'm OK, I'm safe?
DEAL: I'm sure that there are those sites. I don't have that information at my fingertips.
We do have a contact number though for our state at the governor's office. And I can give you that. It's 404-656-1776.
We have our GEMA, which is our Georgia Emergency Management Association organization here on the scene with me. Our commander, our director of that, is with me on this tour. And we've got people working all across the state in the affected areas.
MALVEAUX: And Governor, you've declared emergencies in several counties. Are you confident that you have the resources necessary to deal with this recovery effort and to deal with the search and rescue?
DEAL: Well, we are certainly going to be making a request of FEMA, asking for federal assistance, because we do not have the financial resources to do what is necessary, and we are hopeful that we will get federal assistance.
MALVEAUX: What do you need most right now?
DEAL: I'm sorry?
MALVEAUX: What do you need most right now as governor of this state to actually help people who are in need?
DEAL: Well, we need the kind of assistance that the FEMA can give us in terms of restitution for local governments who are incurring costs of clearing debris, removing power lines, restoring transportation on the ground, and also hopefully to have loan assistance for businesses and for families that need to either rebuild their place of business or to acquire other housing. And those will be of primary importance to us and federal assistance in that regard is really crucial.
MALVEAUX: Governor Deal, thank you so much for joining us here at CNN NEWSROOM.
DEAL: Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1104/28/cnr.04.html
