Public Statements
Deal: Leading Automotive Supplier to Create 150 jobs in Bartow County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Aug. 16, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that voestalpine Automotive Body Parts Inc. will expand its existing operation in Bartow County, creating 150 jobs and investing $50 million in the local community. voestalpine Automotive Body Parts Inc. is the supply base for the voestalpine Group, which produces ultra-high strength body-in-white components for premium car manufacturers.
"voestalpine's decision to expand operations in Bartow County strengthens Georgia's growing automotive industry and highlights the state's extensive manufacturing capabilities," said Deal. "When we met with voestalpine executives in Germany, we discussed the benefits that Georgia can continue to offer the growing company. The business environment in Bartow County and throughout the state will help voestalpine maintain its position as a leader in automotive supply, while bolstering Georgia's reputation as a top state for business."

The newly created jobs will range from advanced manufacturing to hot-forming and assembly positions. The company currently employs approximately 100 Georgians at the facility and offers extensive training opportunities, including an apprenticeship program with the students of the Bartow County College & Career Academy in Cartersville.

"This investment is an important step in the growth strategy of our company in the U.S. and positions us well in the center of the southern automotive hub," said Philipp Schulz, managing director of voestalpine Automotive Body Parts Inc. "We would especially like to thank state and local officials as well as the Georgia Department of Economic Development for their assistance in this project. We are very excited about expanding operations in Cartersville, where our company has found great partners for our operations."

voestalpine Automotive Body Parts Inc. is a subsidiary company of the Metal Forming Division of the Austria-based voestalpine Group. The Metal Forming Division produces highly refined sections, tubes and precision strip steel products, as well as ready-to-install components made of pressed, stamped and roll formed parts.

"We are so proud and thankful for voestalpine's investment in Bartow County," said Bartow County Commissioner Steve Taylor. "They were the first company to build in Highland 75 and their multiple additional phases, continued investment and creation of jobs shows that Bartow is a great location to do business. The success of voestalpine and Highland 75 is a testament to the collaboration between Bartow County, the City of Cartersville and all our state and corporate partners."

Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) Senior Project Manager Wylly Harrison and Regional Project Manager Stephanie Scearce represented the Global Commerce Division in partnership with the Cartersville-Bartow County Department of Economic Development and Georgia Power.

"When global manufacturing companies like voestalpine choose to locate or expand their existing presence in Georgia, it is a testament to the international reputation of our top-ranked business climate," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "As our state's automotive industry grows and manufacturing companies continue to invest, I am confident that voestalpine will find the support it needs to successfully serve its customers around the world and remain competitive in the marketplace."

The voestalpine Group
In its business segments, voestalpine is a globally leading technology and capital goods group with a unique combination of material and processing expertise. voestalpine, which operates globally, has around 500 Group companies and locations in more than 50 countries on all five continents. It has been listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange since 1995. With its top-quality products and system solutions using steel and other metals, it is one of the leading partners to the automotive and consumer goods industries in Europe and to the oil and gas industries worldwide. The voestalpine Group is also the world market leader in turnout technology, special rails, tool steel, and special sections.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-08-16/deal-leading-automotive-supplier-create-150-jobs-bartow-county
