Public Statements
Deal Announces "Real Results," a Plan for Education in Georgia
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 7, 2010
Location: Unknown

Nathan Deal, Republican nominee for governor of Georgia, today unveiled his blueprint that emphasizes local control, greater choice and reforms to better position schools in Georgia for the new century.
The plan, "Real Results," was developed following lengthy discussions with stakeholders in the education process, including parents, teachers and administrators.

"I have listened to Georgians and believe this plan has the right elements to bring needed changes to public education in Georgia," Deal said.

More than 700 teachers responded to Deal in an online survey. Over 70 percent said that too much classroom time was being spent on preparing for and taking standardized tests. "We must provide significant flexibility to local school systems that are accountable for student outcomes," Deal said.

One of the unique approaches in Deal's plan would allow students to progress to higher levels without having to complete unnecessary hours. Online assessments will be made available to teachers, allowing students to advance to more rigorous coursework when they are ready. "We will no longer tie the hands of students and teachers by imposing arbitrary 'seat time' requirements," Deal said.

The plan also addresses the need to attract new teachers in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM).

In order to restore Georgia's competitiveness in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, Deal will work with legislators, state and local school officials to develop a STEM Education Student Incentive Plan that will encourage our best and brightest science and math college students to pursue a course of study to become an educator in these fields. These incentives would be repaid over the course of a teacher's service in our public elementary, middle and high schools.

Teachers who agree to dedicate their time in one of our state's most underperforming schools would further be rewarded by accruing service credit at twice the rate, earning two years of credit for each calendar year served.
The plan would also allow school systems to earn state incentives for implementing innovative programs of learning under the STEM program.

The Republican's plan also includes a health and wellness element.

"With an increasing number of children who struggle with weight issues or have been diagnosed with health-related issues, such as diabetes, we can work within our schools to educate students on improving their physical health," Deal said. Utilizing existing infrastructure such as the Healthy Kids Challenge, physical education and school nutrition programs will intentionally work together to create a national model for wellness.

The plan also addresses economic concerns for the future of the HOPE scholarship program and the financial future of the Teachers Retirement System.
"We have seen what the HOPE program has meant at both ends of the education spectrum, in pre-kindergarten and in college education," Deal said. "It will be a priority of my administration to protect these core purposes of HOPE."
Deal also pledged to protect the retirement funds of career educators.

"We must be good stewards of the funds for teacher retirement," he said. "We have seen what has happened when pension funds are invested in high-risk ventures and I want to make certain that teachers can rest assured that their retirement fund will be there when needed."
He said improving education would be a cornerstone of his administration.

"As the son and husband of career educators, I know the value of education to Georgia," Deal said. "I want to ensure that future generations of Georgians can enjoy the same."

Source: http://www.dealforgovernor.com/snews.php?n=67
