Public Statements
Tri-State Delegation Sends Letter To Governors Urging Action On Water Dispute
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Nov. 16, 2009
Location: Unknown

As a result of the meeting between the Tri-State Delegation, the 51 members of the Alabama, Florida and Georgia House and Senate Delegations sent a letter to the three governors Tuesday urging them to expeditiously meet and develop a plan to resolve the water dispute.
Statements from GA Congressmen John Lewis and Nathan Deal are as follows:
Rep. John Lewis (GA-05): "I want to thank the Congressional delegations from Alabama, Florida, and Georgia for coming together to express their ideas regarding the tri-state water conflict. Communication is the key to resolving our differences. We hope the governors will be inspired by the collaboration of 45 members of Congress and meet expeditiously to bring this conflict to a sensible resolution."
Rep. Nathan Deal (GA-09): "As members of the Alabama, Florida and Georgia Congressional Delegations, we understand our responsibility and that of the governors. It is my hope that we can work together towards an agreeable solution, assist the governors in their negotiations and ultimately pass legislation that fairly authorizes Lake Lanier."
Background: In response to a federal judge's ruling in July, Georgia Congressmen John Lewis and Nathan Deal, on behalf of the 13 member Georgia House Delegation, invited all members of the Alabama and Florida Delegations to a discussion Wednesday, October 28, 2009 in regards to the ongoing water issues between the three states.
Text of the signed letter below:
Honorable Bob Riley
Governor
State of Alabama
State Capitol
Montgomery, Alabama 36130
Honorable Charlie Crist
Governor
State of Florida
State Capitol
Plaza Level 05
400 South Monroe Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399
Honorable Sonny Perdue
Governor
State of Georgia
State Capitol
Atlanta, Georgia 30334
Dear Governor Riley, Governor Crist and Governor Perdue:
We write today as the Members of the Alabama, Florida, and Georgia Congressional Delegations to urge our Governors to meet as soon as possible to resume negotiations on a water-sharing agreement between the three states regarding the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) system and between Alabama and Georgia regarding the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa (ACT) system. During our tri-delegation meeting in Washington, DC, on October 28, 2009, a consensus developed among the three Congressional delegations that in order to help resolve this crisis, there must be ongoing discussions and negotiations at the state level. We urge you to act expeditiously on this matter of critical importance to our three states.
As Members of the Alabama, Florida, and Georgia Congressional Delegations, we remain committed to the issue and stand ready to assist each of you as you move forward with your negotiations.

Source: http://www.house.gov/deal/letter.shtml
