Public Statements
Authorization Of Major Medical Facility Leases For Department Of Veterans Affairs For Fiscal Year 2010
Floor Speech
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 7, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of Senate 1717.
As a veteran, I recognize the sacrifice our men and women in uniform are making on behalf of our country to defend our Nation and protect our liberties. But, unfortunately, notable deficiencies in capacity are limiting access to health care which many of our veterans desperately need.
This bill includes authorization of approximately $5.1 million to establish an outpatient clinic for veterans throughout the metropolitan Atlanta area and across Georgia to improve access to care, particularly as the strain exists on existing VA facilities, and it will continue to increase that strain as servicemembers return home. This new facility will work in support of the Atlanta VA Medical Center, which is located in Decatur, Georgia.
Currently, over 630,000 veterans live within the Atlanta VA catchment area, and that number will continue to grow. Estimates further indicate that the number of outpatient visits in the area will grow by 120 percent by 2025, with a dramatic 170 percent surge in mental health visits.
The Atlanta Specialty Care Clinic lease, which this bill provides for, will provide an opportunity to serve our veterans in a contemporary facility, ensuring that maximum safety and security are going to be addressed. This facility will enhance the VA's ability to provide some of the highest-in-demand services in ophthalmology, podiatry, and dermatology, while allowing the existing areas at the Decatur VA facility to be expanded to address mental health services and traumatic brain injury.
I have introduced a similar piece of legislation in the House, H.R. 3704, which also authorizes the establishment of this much-needed facility. Over 17,000 unique patients representing 88,000 outpatient visits per year will benefit by this much-needed addition to our already strained system.
Mr. Speaker, our veterans deserve no less than our best, and I remain committed to ensuring that our service members receive the health care that they deserve.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
