Public Statements
Constitutionality Of Health Care Reform Legislation Pending Consideration By The House
Floor Speech
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 7, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise tonight to address this body about a document that is sometimes forgotten. A document that gives meaning and purpose to what we do in this body, that in fact is the basis upon which this body actually exists. And that is the Constitution of the United States.
For over two centuries, this document has been the foundation for our free people. It has become the model for other governments who have copied it around the world. And yet too often it appears that the very document that is the core of our liberties, the core of our existence in this representative democracy, is overlooked in this body. It's as if it were treated as a document of antiquity to be given proper respect in the Library of Congress but to be paid no attention to in our deliberations here. I think that is quite ironic.
I had a town hall meeting this weekend, and one of my constituents raised the issue of the constitutionality of one of the bills that are pending before this body. I promised him I would address that issue, and that is what I intend to do very briefly this evening.
When those 56 men met in Philadelphia, they understood the significance of trying to write a document that controlled the actions of legislative and executive bodies. And they did a very good job of it. Over these two centuries plus, there have only been some 27 amendments that have been adopted.
It used to be that when Congress would legislate on an issue that it would preface it with the constitutional basis upon which the legislation would be even authorized to be considered. That practice has, unfortunately, been abandoned. For those who are familiar with our Federal courts, it is not unlike what a party going into that court would be required to do, and that is to specify the basis on which the Federal court has jurisdiction to consider the issue that is presented to the court.

Source:
