Public Statements
The American People Deserve Better Than A Health Care Reform Bill Drafted In Secrecy, And They Will Demand It
Floor Speech
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 30, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Madam Speaker, I have a message from the citizens of Georgia: don't dare bring a bill before this House that spends one dime of taxpayer money to provide health care for illegal aliens.
During the month of August, the citizens of my State and the country spoke out on health care reform. Their outcry was unlike anything we have seen in recent years. Town hall meetings, TEA parties, freedom rallies, they all became the forum in which the public protest was intended to send a message to this House.
But here we are 2 months later, and none of the concerns of August have been addressed. In particular, no version of the health care reform that is before the House includes the language that I offered that would require proof of citizenship before receiving taxpayer-funded health care. Now it appears that the House is in a holding pattern. Media reports indicate that Speaker Pelosi is drafting her own version of health care reform. Other reports suggest that President Obama and the White House are drafting another bill.
What appears very clear is that these bills are being drafted in secret and behind closed doors and that there is no intention to submit them to the House committees for hearings or for markups.
I call on the Speaker and the President to open up the process, allow Republicans such as me, the ranking member of the Health Care Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, to participate in the drafting of this bill. It's time for the law to clearly state that those who want taxpayer-funded health care must prove and must verify that they are citizens. I have language that will make that happen. But thus far it has been rejected along a party-line vote. Today the other body rejected a similar proposal along a party-line vote.
If health care is to be written in secret, if the normal committee processes are bypassed, if illegal aliens are allowed to receive taxpayer-funded health care, if a bill is rushed through this House with no opportunity to read it, if any of these things happen, I predict that the historic outcry of the American people during August will pale in comparison to the voices of concern that they will raise as a result of that abuse.
Madam Speaker, this issue is too big, it is too important to our people, it is too destructive of our free market enterprise system to be cloaked in secrecy and rushed through this body in a partisan wheelbarrow. If that happens, the Members of this House should be outraged. But, more importantly, the American people will be outraged.
Tyranny by whatever name it bears and whatever iron fist it raises is still tyranny. The American people deserve better and they will demand it.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
