Public Statements
Statement Of Congressman Nathan Deal On Colleague Joe Wilson
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 21, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Statement Of Congressman Nathan Deal On Colleague Joe Wilson
U.S. Rep. Nathan Deal, R-Ga., Ranking Republican on the Subcommittee on Health within the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today issued the following statement in support of his colleague, U.S. Rep. Joe Wilson, R-S.C.
"Congressman Wilson has apologized to the president for his remarks and President Obama has accepted his apology," Deal said.
"Instead of moving on to the real issues the American people are truly concerned about- such as not allowing illegal aliens to access taxpayer-funded healthcare benefits -- we are currently stuck on another attempt to cloud reality on the simple important fact that the healthcare reform bill already voted out of three Committees of jurisdiction will allow millions of illegal aliens to slip onto the rolls of public programs," said Deal. "Unfortunately, the amendment I introduced to exclude illegal aliens from coverage under the proposed healthcare bill failed in committee by a vote of 28 to 29, largely along party lines."
House Resolution 744, which disapproves of the action made by Rep Wilson at the president's Joint Session to Congress earlier this month passed by a vote of 240 to 179.
Background:
Despite the efforts of Deal and other members of Congress, the majority party voted to allow millions of illegal aliens to be allowed into the Medicaid program.
In 2005 Congressman Deal, along with the late U.S. Rep. Charlie Norwood of Augusta, passed a bill which required states to verify the citizenship of applicants for state Medicaid program. The action was supported by Republican and Democratic governors alike.
Last year, in a bill to reauthorize the S-CHIP program, known as PeachCare in Georgia, the majority party weakened language requiring verification.
Deal, as the ranking Republican member on the Health subcommittee, has been leading the opposition in the House to allowing publically-funded healthcare for illegal aliens.
The bill, as approved by the committee, is over 1,000 pages in length and leaders of the majority party have promised additional amendments will be forthcoming.

Source: http://www.house.gov/deal/wilson.shtml
