Public Statements
Deal: Global Technology Company to Invest $2.5 Billion in Douglas County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 25, 2017
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Switch, a global technology solutions corporation, will create 65 jobs, and along with its clients, invest $2.5 billion in a Switch PRIME data center in Douglas County. The new metro Atlanta location will be the highest-rated data center in the Southeast.
"Georgia is committed to remaining on the cutting edge of high-tech innovation, and innovative companies like Switch are leading the way in this trend," said Deal. "Georgia's robust technology infrastructure and skilled workforce will benefit Switch in building this new data center and in the company's future growth. By selecting Douglas County, Switch will enjoy our business-friendly climate and further secure Georgia's status as the Silicon Valley of the South."
The more than 1-million-square-foot metro Atlanta campus, named "The Keep," will become the fourth Switch PRIME campus located in the U.S. The Keep campus will offer clients the ability to operate in multiple Tier IV Gold data center environments across the east coast while remaining outside of natural disaster zones.
"Switch is extremely excited to bring the highest rated data center to the greater Atlanta metro to serve as a hub for the Southeastern United States," said Adam Kramer, Switch executive vice president of strategy. "We look forward to becoming active members of the Atlanta community and supporting the growth of the vibrant tech environment throughout the state."
Switch PRIME locations are campus ecosystems ranging from 1 million-square-feet to 8 million-square-feet. The Switch PRIME data center in Douglas County is projected to be several million square feet with two campus locations as the ecosystem grows, serving as a hub for Miami, Ashburn, Va., and the entire Southeastern U.S.
"Douglas County is thrilled to welcome Switch's newest Tier IV Gold data center in our community," said Dr. Romona Jackson-Jones, chair of the Douglas County Board of Commissioners. "The Data Center industry is a target sector for the Douglas County Economic Development Authority, as we have proven to have superior infrastructure and talent base to support them. We look forward to continuing to grow our relationship with Switch and ensuring this investment is a success!"
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) Senior Project Manager Ashley Varnum represented the Global Commerce division in partnership with the Metro Atlanta Chamber, Georgia Power and the Douglas County Economic Development Authority.
"Such a large investment in the region is a testament to metro Atlanta's position as a digital hub with the qualified, high-tech talent required for a company like Switch," said Hala Moddelmog, president and CEO of the Metro Atlanta Chamber. "We are thrilled to welcome Switch's newest data center and to celebrate the economic impact they will bring to our region."
"Technology companies in Georgia are positioned to perform at the highest rate and grow quickly," said GDEcD Commissioner Pat Wilson. "In fact, our more than 17,000 technology companies represent a $113.1 billion economic impact in Georgia. We are very excited to welcome Switch to this booming technology industry and we are well aligned to support their future growth."
About Switch
Founded in 2000 and headquartered in Las Vegas, Switch, a technology infrastructure ecosystem corporation, is built on the intelligent and sustainable growth of the internet. Switch founder and CEO Rob Roy has developed more than 260 patent and patent pending claims, covering data center designs that have manifested into the company's world-renowned data centers and technology solution ecosystems. For more information, visit switch.com.

Source: https://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2017-05-25/deal-global-technology-company-invest-25-billion-douglas-county
