Public Statements
Statement On Congressman Nathan Deal Following The President's Address To A Joint Session Of Congress
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 9, 2009
Location: Unknown

Statement On Congressman Nathan Deal Following The President's Address To A Joint Session Of Congress
U.S. Congressman Nathan Deal, R-Ga., today issued the following statement in response to President Obama's address to Congress.
"As I anticipated the address that President Obama would give to Congress on the issue of healthcare reform, I had hoped the President would have used the month of August to read the bill which had been introduced in July or that he would write another piece of legislation. After hearing his address this evening, it is obvious that he has done neither. (Read more)
While there are many areas of bipartisan agreement relating to insurance reform, these areas are used to camouflage the underlying purpose of the President's plan; the dramatic and rapid movement of millions of Americans into a government run healthcare system, known as the public option. When that happens, the private insurance market will disappear along with the choices consumers currently exercise. This is highlighted by the stated intent to eliminate Medicare Advantage plans which are the only avenues of choice that seniors currently have available to themSo much for keeping what you have.
It is regrettable the President and the Democrat leaders in Congress are not listening to the voices of the American people, as evidenced by his own statement that "a strong majority of Americans still favor a public insurance option". Also, simply saying that illegal aliens will not receive publically financed healthcare is absurd when there is no requirement to verify citizenship.
It is disappointing that very few ideas or reforms were advanced by the President. Instead, it was an effort to put some shine on a plan that many Americans have already rejected. Fancy words, appeals to emotion and manipulation of facts will not extinguish the wildfire that is raging across our land. Abraham Lincoln was correct when he observed that you "cannot fool all the people all of the time." The American people have opened their eyes to this Administration's attempt to lead our nation down the dangerous path of socialism, and no speech, no matter how clever or well delivered will close their eyes again."

Source: http://www.house.gov/deal/press/joint.shtml
