Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of H.R. 3183, Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010
By: Nathan Deal
Date: July 15, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3183, ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010 -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. I thank the gentleman.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the rule.
The reason is that my colleagues and I from Georgia offered an amendment that was not accepted in the Rules Committee. The amendment would have prohibited funds in this act from being made available to be used to update the calculation of the critical yield of the Federal projects within the ACF and the ACT river basins before the development of updated water control plans for the Federal projects within these river basins.
The reason for the amendment was that language was included in the other body's version of this bill which requested that the critical yield updates be accomplished before the water control manuals themselves. The fact is that these control manuals need to be completed first by the Corps before the critical yield studies can be finished. This is an important study and therefore should be done properly.
Although the critical yield updates are a necessary part of the manual updates, they do not provide any understanding of how water is currently being allocated or how the Federal projects may best be managed. The Corps of Engineers must be allowed to determine the critical yield under appropriate conditions, and our amendment would have made sure that they were able to do that.
This language that is inserted in the bill by the other body is not mutual in regard to the ongoing water struggle between our States. It arbitrarily prioritizes this particular study and diverts resources away from the Corps of Engineers that are needed in order to complete the much-needed water control plans.
And for that reason, since the amendment was not allowed by the Rules Committee, I rise in objection to this rule before the body today.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.thomas.gov/
