Public Statements
Hearing Of The Oversight And Investigations Subcommittee Of The House Energy And Commerce Committee - Terminations Of Individual Health Policies By Insurance Companies
Statement
By: Phil Gingrey Henry Waxman Nathan Deal Bruce Braley Jan Schakowsky Betty Sutton Michael Burgess John Dingell Greg Walden Joe Barton Gene Green Bart Stupak
Date: June 16, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Chaired By: Bart Stupak
Witness Panel I: Robin Beaton, Policyholder; Wittney Horton, Policyholder; Peggy Raddatz, Relative Of Policyholder; Panel II: Don Hamm, CEO Assurant Health, Assurant; Richard Collins, CEO, Golden Rule Insurance Company, Unitedhealth Group; Brian A. Sassi, President And CEO, Consumer Business, Wellpoint, INC; Karen Pollitz, Research Professor, Georgetown University Health Policy Institute
Copyright ©2009 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Carina Nyberg at cnyberg@fednews.com or call 1-202-216-2706.
REP. STUPAK: (Sounds gavel.) Okay. Hearing will come to order. Today we have a hearing entitled, "Terminations of Individual Health Policies by Insurance Companies." The chairman, the ranking member, and the chairman emeritus will have five minutes for opening statement. Other members of the subcommittee will be recognized for three minutes.
Before we begin, I'm going to ask unanimous consent that the contents of our document binder be entered into the record, provided that the committee staff may redact any information that is business proprietary, relates to privacy concerns, or is law enforcement sensitive. Without objection the documents will be entered into the record. And we'll ask that a copy of our document binder be placed at the front table in case witnesses wish to refer to it.

Source:
