Public Statements
The Part of "Owe"
Floor Speech
By: Nathan Deal
Date: March 17, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

THE PARTY OF ``OWE'' -- (House of Representatives - March 17, 2009)
Mr. DEAL from Georgia. I want to thank the gentleman for yielding. I want to join him in talking about the Fair Tax issue and to thank my colleague, JOHN LINDER, who is here on the floor, who is the primary sponsor of this legislation in the House.
We all talk about change. We all talk about reform. I can't think of a single bill that is before this House, in committee at least, that would have the transformational effect of passing a Fair Tax. As the name implies, it is a matter of fairness. It would do many things, and you're going to hear, in addition to Mr. King who has already addressed the topic, you're going to hear others today talk about some of the benefits that would be derived from this kind of legislation.
First of all, it gives people a choice, a choice over how they spend their money. We know that our country is in a deficit in terms of savings. This approach to taxation would say to every American, if you choose to save, then you're going to be able to do so, and the government is not going to tax you as a result of making that choice. If you choose to spend and to consume, then that is the basis on which your taxation will be founded. Those are the kinds of things that give people more of an involvement and a control over their own financial destiny. Of course, as has been referred to, it does much to restore our balance in the international trading community.
Coming from a part of the country in the Southeast which was the old textile belt, we have seen those jobs virtually disappear. It happened for a variety of reasons. But one of the things that made it at a great disadvantage was the tax structure that our country has in place. If we are going to compete in the international marketplace, then a system that does not add on a cost at every stage of the production cycle in the form of taxation is the best way to begin to make us competitive. I think it will be a step toward having those industries, many of whom have left for a variety of reasons, but taxation being one of them, to see them return back to our shores and to restore those job opportunities back to the American people.
For this and many other reasons, I support the Fair Tax. I urge those committees in this House who have jurisdiction over that issue to discharge it from their committee and give this House the opportunity for the elected representatives to express the will of their constituents on this very critical and important reform, the Fair Tax. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
