Public Statements
Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization of 2009
Floor Speech
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 4, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization of 2009 -- (House of Representatives - February 4, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
I think it would be appropriate for us to review what the SCHIP program is designed and was originally designed to do and where it is in light of what this bill attempts to do.
First of all, it stands for the State Children's Health Insurance Program. States call it by a variety of different names at the State level. In my State, it is called PeachCare. You would imagine that we would do that in Georgia, but it was originally designed in 1997 as a 10-year program--it was a block grant program--designed to fill in the need of children who live in families that are above the Medicaid poverty level eligibility but are still below 200 percent of poverty, and that in that capacity was a worthwhile and useful program.
During its 10-year initial lifespan as it moved forward, there were times when States had shortfalls. In other words, the allocation under the Federal matching rate formula for the SCHIP program, coupled with the State's contribution, was not sufficient to meet the demand and the cost of eligible children to be enrolled, and Congress stepped up to the plate, appropriated additional funds, and allowed those States to continue with their legitimate enrollment programs.
When it came to the 10-year time frame expiring, we were faced with, well, what is the future of SCHIP going to be. After much debate, vetoes by the President, about a program that was going to take a huge step in the area of expanding government control of health care, we did an 18-month extension, and that 18 months will expire this next month.
And what it did was it said let's take the legitimate needs of the 200 percent of poverty and below, recognizing that some States had already far exceeded that limit, but nevertheless allowing them to be grandfathered in and provide enough money so that no State runs out of money to cover the eligible children.
Unfortunately, the bill before us today continues to take a step, in my opinion, in the wrong direction.
We talk about the millions of children that are supposedly going to be enrolled as new enrollees in the program, and yet when we look at those figures, we find that about 2.5 million of those so-called new enrollees will be children who are already enrolled in private health insurance plans, but because their family is now eligible for the government to pay for their health care, it is anticipated that their families will simply take them off of the private insurance and put them on the taxpayer-paid program of SCHIP. I don't think that's what most Americans in this country want this program to be.
Couple that with the fact that we have no provision in this bill that requires States--
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
There is no provision in this bill that requires States to go out and make the extra effort to enroll children who are eligible for either Medicaid or the current SCHIP program under its current authorization of up to 200 percent of poverty but are still unenrolled.
In fact, it is estimated that about a quarter of the children who are eligible are simply not enrolled in the current program. These are the children that are at the lowest levels of poverty but are not covered. They should be the part that are our first incentive. The Republican version of this incentivizes States to take that extra effort to enroll those children first before they started going up the poverty level and enrolling children in higher income families, many of whom already have private insurance.
I thank the gentleman for yielding to me.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
