Public Statements
Letter to Barack Obama, President of the United States - Scrapping Plans to Halt Exploration of Domestic Energy Resources
Letter
By: Saxby Chambliss Jack Kingston Johnny Isakson Nathan Deal Phil Gingrey Paul Broun Tom Price Lynn Westmoreland
Date: Jan. 22, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

The nine Republican members of Georgia's congressional delegation today called on President Obama to scrap plans to halt exploration of our domestic energy resources. News reports say Obama plans to re-impose a ban on offshore drilling and to rescind a plan to develop oil shale fields in the western United States.

The letter to Obama was signed by Senators Johnny Isakson and Saxby Chambliss as well as by U.S. Representatives Jack Kingston, Tom Price, Lynn Westmoreland, Phil Gingrey, Paul Broun, Nathan Deal and John Linder.
The text of the letter is below:

January 22, 2009

The President
The White House
Washington, D.C. 20500

Dear Mr. President:

We write in regards to recent news reports that your Administration is considering ordering a hold on an executive order issued by President Bush to allow offshore drilling in previously banned areas. These same news reports indicate that the Department of Interior will rescind a plan to develop oil shale fields in the western United States. We respectfully write to ask that you not reinstate an executive moratorium on offshore energy exploration and production and that you not rescind the Department of Interior plan for oil shale exploration and recovery.

Environmentally responsible offshore oil and natural gas exploration and recovery, as well as oil shale exploration and recovery, are essential components of a comprehensive energy policy that will enable the United States to become energy independent. Exploration and recovery of these resources is critical to our national security and economic wellbeing. We believe allowing for exploration in these areas is also consistent with your priorities of economic growth and environmental protection.

Source: http://chambliss.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=NewsCenter.PressReleases&ContentRecord_id=0078fb41-802a-23ad-48b4-51b351408712&Region_id=&Issue_id=&CFID=1049010&CFTOKEN=56937766
