Public Statements
Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 14, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. I appreciate the gentleman yielding.
Madam Speaker, very few bills come to the floor of this House with so much rhetoric disassociated from facts as we have heard in this bill.
Now, let's talk about a few of the real facts.
First of all, the program was designed, at its outset, to insure children that were above the Medicaid level of poverty but below 200 percent of poverty. All of the stories that we have heard today--from both sides of the aisle, quite frankly--as to examples of children who are uninsured, in almost every one of those instances are children that should have been insured under the current law under either SCHIP or Medicaid but are unenrolled.
One of the amendments that I offered that was not allowed was an amendment that said before you can go up the poverty scale, you should have a 90-percent saturation of those children that are below 200 percent of poverty. Many States that are well above the 300 percent of poverty still have not covered a quarter of their children that are below the 200 percent of poverty level.
So "poor children first'' is not in this bill.
Secondly, with regard to the issue of illegal immigration. Now, you can say that illegal immigrants will not be allowed, but you are removing the requirements of certification of eligibility. And by the way, pregnant women, regardless of their immigration status, are considered "children'' under the SCHIP bill in everybody's version of the law.
Now, if you're not acknowledging that illegals are going to be enrolled in this program by virtue of the change you're making in this bill, then you ought to talk to CBO because CBO says in the next 10 years that the Federal Government will spend $5.1 billion and States will spend $3.85 billion on people who are illegally in this country.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, the Republican motion to recommit replaces what I consider to be a deeply flawed bill that has been offered and also has improvements to the SCHIP proposal that we are considering.
Unlike H.R. 2, the Republican motion to recommit fully funds SCHIP program for the next 7 years, not 4 1/2 years as the underlying bill would do, and thereby ensures that needy families and those with low incomes will be covered and eligible under SCHIP through fiscal year 2015. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the motion to recommit will not cause a single SCHIP enrolled child to lose his or her health care coverage.
Unlike the bill that is under consideration, H.R. 2, the motion to recommit puts poor children first by holding States accountable for not finding and enrolling their low-income, uninsured children. Each year, States would be required to report to the Secretary of HHS how they intend to ensure that at least 90 percent of their children with family incomes under $40,000 per year have quality health care coverage in either a public or private health care plan. States would also be required to demonstrate that they have met this 90 percent coverage target before they are able to shift their enrollment activities to higher income families.
Unlike H.R. 2, the motion to recommit maintains the requirement in current law that States verify the identity and citizenship status of Medicaid and SCHIP applicants and prevents illegal aliens and other unqualified individuals from fraudulently gaining access to these taxpayer-funded programs.
Unlike H.R. 2, the Republican motion to recommit preserves limited SCHIP dollars for low-income, uninsured children by preventing States from abusing the income-disregard loophole that is in the current law and would be continued under the underlying bill.
Unlike H.R. 2, the Republican motion to recommit Federal funds will be reserved for families with incomes under 300 percent of the Federal poverty level, which is currently $63,600 for a family of four.
This motion to recommit is compliant with the majority's PAYGO rules by asking corporations with assets in excess of $1 billion to shift some estimated tax payments due in fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2018.
The majority has repeatedly used this short-term shifting of funding to meet the 5-year PAYGO requirements, and we're using it today to comply with the majority's PAYGO requirements without raising taxes.
Fully paid for without increasing taxes on the American people is what this motion to recommit would provide. And unlike the underlying bill, H.R. 2, the Republican recommit motion will actually allow President-elect Obama to keep his promise to the American people of not increasing their taxes.
We believe that these fundamental changes from the underlying bill not only improve it, but extend the life of it for a full 7-year period and is altogether appropriate, and does not include increasing taxes on the American people.
We believe in the SCHIP program. We think that it should be properly applied in States and applied primarily to those who are low-income, poor families first rather than going up the economic scale of eligibility.
For these reasons, I would urge this body to adopt the motion to recommit and to pass a bill for a 7-year period that fully funds and assures States and families that their children will be covered.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
