Public Statements
House Passes Emergency Economic Stabilization Act
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 15, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

The House has once again voted on the "Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008" (H.R. 1424) which passed by a vote of 263 Yeas to 171 Nays. This time it had tax provisions and earmarks that were added in the Senate which the Joint Committee on Taxation says will add $110.4 billion to the deficit over the next ten years. That is in addition to the potential $700 billion that the underlying bill added to the deficit.
These are critical economic times and I have studied the issues and listened to the opinions of everyone - average citizens, bankers, economists and voices from both political parties. While this bill may provide some immediate relief to the financial markets, I am not convinced that it will correct the problems that brought us to this point. In fact, there are no reforms that will correct the structural defects that allowed this to happen. We are being told that the reform will come later. My experience in Congress tells me that you can only get major reform when it is coupled into something anti-reformers want. We are now forfeiting the primary opportunity to correct defects in the system.
On principle, I think this bill is bad legislation. Not only does it inject the federal government into a major ownership role in the private marketplace, it also delegates enormous power from the legislative branch (Congress) to the executive branch (the Secretary of Treasury). On the first point, it is a rush toward socialism. On the second count, it erodes the Constitutional balance of power.
I have once again voted against this legislation. My reasons are too numerous for me to set forth in this letter. I do think Congress could have done better, but the rush to judgment mentality coupled with the doomsday hysteria that encompassed this effort in a whirlwind of anxiety have prevented this from happening. Many of us have offered free market solutions, but these were not considered. I agree that something should be done and have been willing to vote for other alternatives.
I realize that my vote will please and disappoint various groups of citizens that I have the honor to represent. I have prayed for wisdom but only time will tell if it has been granted. I have faith in the strength and honor of decent, hardworking Americans who did nothing wrong and did not cause this crisis. I also have confidence that regardless of how this legislation plays out, we must be resolved to not allow this to happen again.

Source: http://www.house.gov/deal/press/economy.shtml
