Public Statements
Health Care Safety Net Act Of 2008
Floor Speech
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 25, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I have a speaker who will appear shortly. He was here just a second ago.
In the meantime, I would use the time to simply thank Mr. Green as the lead sponsor of this legislation. He's done an excellent job. He did work across party lines, and I thought we had a good product that came out of our Health Subcommittee and our entire committee and came from the floor of this House. I think it's important that we do that on bills of this nature.
I would like to also thank, in addition to Mr. Murphy who's spoken on the Volunteer Doctors provision, Ms. DeGette who was interested in that as well. Unfortunately, that provision, along with a provision that Congressman Burgess and Congressman Stupak had for some alternative ways of providing additional care under the community health center model, which we had included in our bill on the House side, was not agreed to by our colleagues across the way.
However, the legislation before us today does require three GAO studies to look at all of the issues which we had originally addressed in the legislation that came from the House. Hopefully those GAO studies will confirm the wisdom of the House of including those provisions in the initial bill, and I look forward to seeing the results of those studies and perhaps our ability to revisit this issue of community health centers because I, too, believe that one of the ways we can accomplish greater access is to provide volunteer doctors with Federal tort claims protections so that they can use their services and their talents in community health centers which have a very difficult time attracting doctors in many of the rural areas, in particular.
I rise today in support of H.R. 1343, the ``Health Centers Renewal Act,'' a critical piece of legislation which will reauthorize Community Health Centers and the National Health Service Corps. Community Health Centers provide a fundamental element of our healthcare delivery system in our nation, providing much needed care for uninsured or under-insured individuals seeking very low cost healthcare services. These centers have, and continue to, impact communities across our country and provide a critical safety net for care for thousands of Americans every year. With nearly 47 million Americans living without health insurance, traditional pay-for services have become prohibitively expensive for many. With no remaining option for even the most basic healthcare services, our emergency rooms are being overwhelmed. Community Health Centers step in to fill that gap, relieving the strain on hospital emergency rooms which cost exorbitantly more to operate and are pressed beyond capacity.
H.R. 1343 reauthorizes Community Health Centers for five years while seeking to improve the access to, and quality of, services available under this program throughout the nation. This legislation requires the Government Accountability Office to conduct three studies, all of which will evaluate mechanisms through which the health center program can do more for our communities. First, GAO will evaluate the incorporation of integrated health systems as a model for improving the access to care for medically underserved populations. Second, GAO will also study the effects of implementing policies which would establish school-based health centers. Finally, this legislation will evaluate the potential benefits which could be achieved by extending federal liability protections to healthcare practitioners to encourage participation in Community Health Centers, both in their community as well as additional areas ravaged by hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, or other disaster situations. In light of the devastation in the Gulf Coast region just a few years ago, our healthcare delivery system was put to the ultimate test. Thousands upon thousands of victims were affected. While physicians and other healthcare professionals were ready and willing to answer the call to serve, concerns regarding medical liability turned them away from their call to service. This is an apparent problem an Congress must address this issue to avoid a repeat of this unfortunate situation in the future.
I believe this legislation represents a reasonable compromise, reflecting the priorities of the House, Senate, and healthcare industry, and provides much-needed reauthorization to this critical component of our nation's healthcare infrastructure. I would also like to express my appreciation to the National Association of Community Health Centers for working so well with House and Senate staff in order to craft this legislation before us today. Again, I am pleased to see this legislation on the floor today, and I encourage all of my colleagues to support this critical reauthorization of Community Health Centers.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
