Public Statements
Congressman Deal Speaks On House Floor During Historic Proceedings
Statement
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Aug. 15, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

Congressman Deal Speaks On House Floor During Historic Proceedings
Like many of you, I thought Congress should have stayed in session until we could have a vote on whether to allow Americans to enhance our own energy capacity through environmentally sound drilling and exploration of our own natural resources. For that reason, I voted against adjourning for recess. I was unfortunately in the minority on that vote.
Since that time, my Republican colleagues have been speaking out on the floor of the House of Representatives in protest of Speaker Pelosi's decision to adjourn without even allowing a vote on the issue. Ms. Pelosi has turned off the lights and microphones, as well as shut down the cameras. However, Republicans continue to speak out on in the Chamber of the House of Representatives.
I recently concluded my annual Town Hall Meetings in the 15 counties of the Ninth Congressional District of Georgia. I soon realized, like myself, my constituents felt that gas prices and the overall energy situation are of grave concern for our nation right now. As such, I felt it was important to go back to Washington and join my Republican colleagues on the floor of the House to continue to press the energy issue.
On the House floor, I discussed many of the same issues surrounding the energy debate which I talked about at the Town Hall Meetings. Except here, there were Americans from all across the nation on the floor of the House listening to my colleagues and I discuss the need for an "All-of-the-Above" energy proposal.
Whether it has been on the House floor with these concerned citizens or the constituents at my Town Hall Meetings, there has been a great response on behalf of the American People to support an "All-of-the-Above" balanced energy approach and those who want their voice heard rather than silenced by one individual.
Speaker Pelosi has imposed on her Democratic colleagues an isolationist position and I believe that a growing consensus among the American people will eventually make that extremist position unsustainable.
The House of Representatives is the "People's House" and as such, the people should have a say in this House. This is why as representatives of the people, my Republican colleagues and I will continue to fight until we get a straight up or down vote on a truly balanced approach which allows us to become energy independent.

Source: http://www.house.gov/deal/press/Historic.shtml
