Public Statements
Michelle's Law
Floor Speech
By: Nathan Deal
Date: July 30, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2851, which is commonly known as Michelle's Law.
I would like to thank Mr. Hodes from New Hampshire and Mr. Castle from Delaware for introducing this important legislation and also to thank Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Dingell, subcommittee Chairman PALLONE and Ranking Member Barton for their cooperative efforts in working in a bipartisan manner to move this bill through the Energy and Commerce Committee.
The American people know we must focus our health care efforts on providing increased access to quality, personal health insurance plans that give more Americans control and ownership over their own health care.
As my colleagues are well aware, by increasing the number of Federal mandates on health insurance plans, we are inevitably making health insurance plans more expensive for more Americans and decreasing the number of Americans who can afford the quality personal health insurance plan that they want for their families. Without question, it is vital for Congress to avoid one-size-fits-all Federal mandates on health insurance if we're going to be able to increase the number of Americans with access to quality health insurance plans.
However, I think the bill before us today is a very narrowly tailored solution to an extremely rare problem that results from a very small number of bad actors. This legislation takes the needed step of ensuring that more college-aged Americans will be able to stay on their parents' health insurance coverage in the rare event that they become too sick to remain enrolled in school.
We know that by passing this legislation today, we can help assure American college students that their personal health insurance plan will be there for them giving them one less thing to worry about as they focus on their own illness and on earning their degrees.
Again, I thank my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee for their bipartisan support of this legislation.
I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
