Public Statements
Health Care Centers Renewal Act of 2008
Floor Speech
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 4, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

HEALTH CENTERS RENEWAL ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 04, 2008)
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT
Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1343, the Health Centers Renewal Act. I have been a long time supporter of the community health centers program because health centers provide quality health care services to people and communities which might not otherwise have access to such care.
Last Congress, I sponsored a 5-year health centers reauthorization measure which passed the House by large margins. But unfortunately, we were unable to finalize the legislation and see it signed into law.
I would like to thank Mr. Green for his leadership on the legislation this year and for the willingness of our subcommittee chairman, Mr. Pallone, and our full committee chairman, Mr. Dingell, who worked in a bipartisan way to improve this reauthorization measure.
We made important reforms to the program to encourage the participation of volunteer physicians at health centers. It is my understanding that many physicians would be more willing to volunteer their time at a health center if they knew they would have liability protection from frivolous lawsuits. This bill provides that assurance through the Federal Tort Claims Act.
Through our work in the committee, we also addressed a situation which developed following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita where some health center employees were not able to carry their liability protection out of their home facility to go work on the gulf coast. We made a common-sense change to address this situation to ensure that health centers can meet their staffing needs during times of emergency. This amendment mirrored the legislation introduced by the late Representative Paul Gilmore, and I am glad that we can honor him by including this in this measure.
Community health centers are an important component of our health care safety net. While many communities across the country enjoy the benefits of having a health center, there are still many areas which could benefit from continued expansion of the program.
I would urge my colleagues to support this measure and give medically underserved communities across this country greater access to health care providers at a local community health center.
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT
Madam Speaker, I believe the majority is ready to close, and I will close at this point if he has no other speakers.
I believe that the importance of community health centers has certainly been underscored in a bipartisan fashion by the discussion we've had here on this floor. I would remind us all that this is an initiative that President Bush inaugurated several years ago when his goal was to expand the number of community health centers across this country, ultimately so that every county in this country would be served from one of these facilities. Certainly all of us recognize it is one of the better ways that we have available to us to be able to provide needed health care to communities that are underserved at the current time.
Once again, in closing, I would commend Mr. Green for his willingness to work in a bipartisan fashion on this reauthorization legislation. I believe that the amendments that were added to it before its reaching the floor today have considerably improved this bill. In particular, it now will allow physicians who are either retired or who want to volunteer a portion of their time to assist in one of these community health centers the ability to do so with some degree of limited liability protection. I think that will increase the number of physicians who are available in these facilities, and by doing that, it will increase the quality of care to those who are receiving services in community health centers.
With that, I would encourage passage of this resolution.
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
