Public Statements
Cytology Proficiency Improvement Act of 2008
Floor Speech
By: Nathan Deal
Date: April 8, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I, too, rise in support of the Cytology Proficiency Improvement Act. I was a sponsor of legislation similar to this in the last Congress which passed the House, but unfortunately it was never signed into law. The bill revises national quality assurance standards of laboratories responsible for cytology services.
A few summers ago, I had the opportunity to visit a laboratory of a pathologist in my district, and I saw first hand the impact of this legislation. This bill is the result of actions taken in 2005 by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to institute a proficiency testing program for individual pathologists.
Unfortunately, this program was based on regulations first issued in 1992 as a result of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988. Thus the cytology proficiency program is now very outdated and based on regulations from nearly 15 years ago.
The legislation would provide for an orderly phase-out of the current program and transition into a new program where all individuals involved in screening and interpreting Pap tests would participate in a continuing medical education program in gynecologic cytology. This educational approach will present participants with complex cases to keep their skills on the cutting edge and will provide individuals an opportunity to test their skills.
I believe this legislation would be an important step in the right direction and would modernize the current regulatory framework while providing quality assurance, as was required in the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments. Unlike last Congress, I hope we will be able to get this legislation signed into law in order to modernize an outdated proficiency testing program for pathologists.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
