Public Statements
General Leave
Floor Speech
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 23, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


GENERAL LEAVE -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008)
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. I thank the gentleman for yielding.
I'm beginning to think the writers' strike in Hollywood has migrated to Washington, DC. It sounds like we're having reruns, and, in fact, we are; same speeches. But the truth of the matter is the facts themselves have not changed.
The bill that is being considered for an override of the President's veto, the fact remains that if we are talking about 10 million children being covered by SCHIP, 2 million of those will be in a crowd-out, currently having private insurance but being then forced or given the enticement, because it is a government program, to move to a government-run health care program rather than the private insurance that they currently have.
The fact does not change that the bill does not have stable funding. While it dramatically increases the funding for the first 5 years, it then falls off a cliff, and the funding is cut by two-thirds.
The fact remains that this bill fails to prioritize poor children. It would repeal the current requirement from CMS that 95 percent of children below 200 percent of poverty be covered before you move up the poverty scale. It repeals that and gives no priority to poor children.
It does not cap the income eligibility. While some proponents say that it caps it at 300 percent of poverty, States could still enroll children and families above that, using what is known as ``income disregards.'' And instead of focusing on children, which it is a children's program, childless adults could continue to remain in the SCHIP program under this bill through September 30 of 2009. And parents who are adults could also stay on until September 30 of 2012 in what is supposed to be a children's insurance program.
It provides excess, unnecessary funding. It does not give States the incentive to do as they currently are required to do to continue to maintain their participation.
You know, Democrats contend that we should put more money into SCHIP because of leaner times. It would seem to me that in leaner times we should give the priority to the children in the poor families, and this bill does not do that.
Ronald Reagan is quoted as saying, in talking about welfare, ``We should measure welfare success by how many people leave welfare, not by how many are added.'' I would suggest the same criteria could be used in SCHIP legislation.
With that, I would urge a ``no'' vote on the veto override.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
