Public Statements
Hearing of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet- Status of the DTV Transition Part II
Interview
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 17, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet- Status of the DTV Transition Part II
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. NATHAN DEAL (R-GA): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I thank our witnesses for being with us today. And I'd like to raise several issues relating to the DTV transition with you.
First of all, I'd like to address the FCC's recent dual carriage order, which deals with the broadcast carriage obligations of cable operators after the digital transition in television. The order requires cable to pass along the digital signal of must-carry broadcasters in both digital and analog formats to their subscribers. Unfortunately, it does not provide an exemption for small operators. Rather, it allows cable systems with limited capacity to file for a waiver to relieve them of this obligation. I'm concerned with this decision, as it essentially acknowledges that the dual carriage rule will be burdensome for small cable providers due to their unique technological limitations.
It seems ill-advised for the commission to enact rules which force small, rural cable operators with limited means to go out and hire a D.C. lawyer simply to navigate the FCC's often unpredictable waiver process.
In the same vein, I'd like to comment on proposals at the FCC to impose must-carry -- multicast must-carry requirements on cable operators. I've long advocated for less regulation and more free- market principles in the video marketplace. I find proposals to impose more must-carry requirements disturbing. It is important that consumer preference, not government mandates, determine what viewers watch.
In addition, by implementing new, must-carry mandates, the government is creating a video market with little or no incentive to develop or produce high-quality programming. I would urge the commission to avoid a path of increased regulation.
Lastly, I'd like to briefly comment on the ongoing testing of white space devices at the FCC. I understand and agree with the need to conduct additional testing to ensure that no interference to broadcast or wireless microphone services, and commend the commission for its willingness to continue working on this issue.
Televisions white spaces hold the potential for great innovation, including low-cost, rural, wireless, broadband service and the wireless distribution of content within the home and office. For entrepreneurs, white spaces provides nearly boundless possibilities for development and exploration.
It is important for us to build on the initial FCC tests which prove that the concepts that white space devices can detect and avoid both digital television and wireless microphone signals. And I thank you for continuing to test those devices.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I look forward to hearing from the commissioners. And I yield back my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. NATHAN DEAL (R-GA): Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I'll try to be quick. First of all, let me follow up, Chairman Martin, with a question asked by Mr. Shimkus with regard to the dual carriage issue as it relates to small cable companies. I believe you said you had not received any requests for waivers at this time.
One of the concerns we've heard expressed is that they are concerned that if they file a waiver and it is denied as to whether they would have sufficient time then to go back and become compliant. Have you give thought to that issue, and have you taken any steps in that direction, maybe for example how long a time frame would it be from the time a waiver request is submitted to a determination is made? Could you elaborate on that please?
MR. MARTIN: No. I mean, I haven't given any thought to the time frame, but I certainly will make sure that they're given that opportunity to make sure they come into compliance. But I would point out, and I think this is important in the context of talking about whether small cable operators who are saying that they need a waiver process. Right now, all of these same small cable operators are required and are successfully carrying broadcast channels to all of their viewers.
And all we are saying is that that day after the transitions, they should have to do the same thing the day after as they're doing the day before, that all of their customers should still continue to get broadcast channels and that the digital transition for broadcasters should not be an excuse that a cable operator can remove a broadcast channel from the tier of channels that they're currently providing them too.
So they're not going to be required to do anything additional, which is one of the reasons why I was skeptical of their concern and the expression that they have about why this is going to take up additional capacity, because right now, they are already required to deliver those signals to their customers in an analog format, because they have analog customers. So they're not going to be taking up any additional capacity on their systems than they're doing today.
So I'm happy to end up looking at individual small operators if they say this is going to be an additional burden, but I'm not sure I understand how it's an additional burden because right now the law requires them to deliver a broadcast signal to an analog cable customer. The day after the transition, all I'm saying is, and all the commission said is the day after that transition, they still have to deliver a signal to that analog customer. So it shouldn't be any additional burden than it is the day before.
But we will take a look at the waiver process, but I think we have to put it in context that the digital transition should not be an opportunity for cable operators to disenfranchise consumers from the broadcast stations they receive today.
REP. DEAL: Of course, I think their concern is that they will then be in the dual carriage capacity.
MR. MARTIN: But our rule did not require dual carriage. Our rule requires it to be viewable by everyone. If they have digital customers, they are required to deliver it in digital format today, and if they have analog customers, they are required to deliver it in analog customers today. They've chosen a dual carriage by the design of their system. The rule is not different after.
So if they want to provide set top boxes that allow for their customers to watch analog signals, so that their digital customers can still watch analog signals, some cable systems design their system that way and deliver their signals and meet their must carry requirements in that manner. And they would still be able to do that; that is not a dual carriage requirement.
Dual carriage, at the commission when we considered that, was a debate about whether we should require the cable operators to carry both the analog broadcast signal and the digital broadcast signal. That would have been two broadcast signals that they would have been required to carry to all of their homes. This is not dual carriage. We did not require that.
REP. DEAL: Mr. Secretary, I believe you've stated previously that you believe that allowing unlicensed devices to operate in the white spaces would be an efficient use of the spectrum. Do you still believe that, and if so would you elaborate on your position on that?
MR. KNEUER: Sure. The president launched a Spectrum Policy Initiative for the entire administration back in 2003. And one of the activities we've been undertaking as part of that initiative is identifying efficiencies in spectrum use. We in the 5 gigahertz band were able to find a way for unlicensed Wi-Fi like devices to operate in the same spectrum that is allocated to government radar systems. Those sorts of sharing arrangements, different services using the same allocations of spectrum, present really powerful efficiencies and are a good way to use the spectrum.
It's not easy. When we did it at 5 gigahertz for Wi-Fi like devices, unlicensed devices to coexist with government radar systems, we didn't solve those technical issues with the first attempt or the second or the third. It took an awful lot of hard work, kicking the lawyers out of the room, getting the engineers in the room, and working out these issues.
I'm confident that innovators and technologists can find these sorts of efficiencies. But the predicate that we had to allowing them into the band was demonstrating that it was on a noninterference basis and that it was technically sound. So I certainly support efforts to improve the efficient use of the spectrum by having spectrum that's otherwise lying fallow being put to use, but you need to do the hard technical work up front.
And I think the Commission is working on that, and the industries are working on that. And all I would say is if at first you don't succeed, try, try, because you can achieve these efficiencies, but you have to do the hard technical work. Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://energycommerce.house.gov/cmte_mtgs/110-ti-hrg.101707.DTV.Part2.shtml
