Public Statements
Hearing of the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce - Digital Future of the Unites States
Statement
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 2, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce - Digital Future of the Unites States, Part VI: The Future of Telecommunications Competition
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. NATHAN DEAL (R-GA): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank our witnesses for joining us today. I think the future of telecommunication competition is certainly one of the more important issues facing our committee and one that we should continue to explore.
As I've expressed in the past, I believe it is critical for our telecommunications infrastructure to be grounded in competition, where market forces create proper incentives and pricing. We should strive to avoid regulations whenever possible.
The government should not interfere when competitive forces are at work, but at the same time, where a free competitive market has yet to evolve, it remains necessary to uphold protections which ensure the public interest is met while promoting increased competition.
The forbearance petitions currently pending before the FCC are excellent examples of how these questions are being played out in the marketplace.
We here in Congress do not have the expertise to know which particular markets are competitive and which are not. This responsibility rests with the FCC which has been tasked with encouraging competition whenever possible, while simultaneously ensuring that deregulation does not occur where competition is absent.
I'm interested to hear from today's witnesses as to their views on how the forbearance petitions allow them to work with the commission to ensure that adequate data and information is provided in a timely manner.
Do various industry participants feel they're afforded sufficient time and opportunity to respond to data and statements submitted to the FCC in the forbearance petitions? Do they feel that the FCC is doing a good job of analyzing competition in all aspects of the market, both residential and business?
In large part these questions also apply to the special access market. I know certain industries have expressed concern that the special access market is broken. These companies describe a pervasive problem where a lack of competition in certain segments of their local markets where inflated prices are increasing as are anti-competitive terms and conditions.
Finally, I would note the pending retirement of the copper facilities. I'm interested to learn if the incumbent carriers, when they decide to retire the copper wire, are open and willing to sell the copper network in the last mile to allow for another carrier to purchase them.
It doesn't seem beneficial to the public interest if we simply allow this valuable network to be retired when numerous companies have expressed interest in purchasing it.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses and I yield back my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://energycommerce.house.gov/cmte_mtgs/110hearingsheld.shtml#tihear
