Public Statements
Hearing of the Subcommittee on Health of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce - H.R. 3610, The Food and Drug Import Safety Act
Interview
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 26, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the Subcommittee on Health of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce - H.R. 3610, The Food and Drug Import Safety Act.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. NATHAN DEAL (R-GA): Thank you.
During the month of August I held town hall meetings all across my district and repeatedly heard from constituents who were concerned about the safety of their nation's food supply. They asked about country of origin labeling, imports from China; they wanted to know what was being done to make sure that the food that they feed their families is indeed safe.
Coming from a town that calls itself the poultry capital of the world, I'm also very familiar with the reciprocal impact that restrictions we place on producers in other countries can have on our own domestic producers. In my experience, poultry imports are one of the first products another country bans if they're upset with new United States trade regulations.
I'm glad that we are holding this hearing here today so that we can look at these issues and try to strike the right regulatory balance with legislation to help address the concerns expressed by my constituents. However, it is also important to recognize the complexities of these issues and be careful that our legislation does not hamper the reforms being made within the industry to provide consumers safe food products.
I know the administration will also be making some recommendations shortly on import safety. And I believe it will be useful for us to evaluate those recommendations as we craft legislation on this subject.
Also during out work on the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, the issue of counterfeit drugs was highlighted and I'm glad we're continuing to work on this subject.
While I'm proud on the drug safety work that we did in that bill, I want to thank Mr. Buyer of our committee, who raised a very valid point that if counterfeit medicines were entering the drug supply then in fact it does undermine our drug safety efforts. He has taken on himself to become perhaps the best informed, on a personal basis, of this issue and I commend him for that.
I want to thank our witnesses on the panels here today for their attendance. I look forward to your testimony on this very complex issue and we look forward also to your recommendations as to how to solve the problems we face.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://energycommerce.house.gov/
