Public Statements
Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 25, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 25, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 3 1/2 minutes.
We're debating the reauthorization of a bill that has been in place for 10 years. It would seem to me that, in doing so, we should learn from the mistakes that were made in the initial legislation and attempt to correct them. I believe the legislation before us tonight overlooks that opportunity.
We have seen the House version that passed here earlier, and we have now seen a Senate version; and the one before us tonight is very similar to the Senate version of this legislation. But it appears to me that we have some questions to ask about that. CBO says that there are 300,000 fewer uninsured low-income children who will be enrolled under the bill before us today than would have been enrolled under the original Senate bill, and yet the amount of money that is being spent is almost exactly the same, an additional $35 billion over the next 5 years. When you couple that $35 billion with the baseline budgeting and the amount of money that States will have to put into the program, we find that we're going to be spending about $60 billion over the next 5 years for a program that for the first 10 years was only a $40 billion program. And when you do include that State funding into the mix, it will be $200 billion over the next 10 years.
Now, who are we going to insure by putting this substantial amount of new money into the program? Once again, the Congressional Budget Office attempts to answer that question. They say that there will be an additional 800,000 children, currently SCHIP eligible, being enrolled in the program by the year 2012. And if that is truly the focus, which it should be the focus of the program, then what are we getting by spending an additional $60 billion? If you divide $60 billion by the additional 800,000 children, that means that this bill is going to require that we spend $74,000 per child. Now, I know the government can throw money away, but I believe that is certainly an excessive amount of money.
Now, who are these children that are going to be the new enrollees? Once again, CBO tells us that, of the additional children who are going to be potentially enrolled, that about half of them are children who already have private health insurance, a 50 percent crowd-out of the existing insurance market.
Now, they also tell us that we ought to be concerned about the fact that if there are potentially going to be as many as 2 million children who will have been moved out of their private insurance into this government-subsidized program, we're also told that Medicaid and also SCHIP generally pay less than the private insurance market pays, that means that the health care providers, the doctors and the hospitals, are going to have to absorb another 2 million patients who are going to be reimbursing them at a lower rate. Another error in the original program, it was for children, and yet we know that four States currently have more adults than children in their program.
Under this bill before us, CBO estimates that in the next 5 years there will still be 780,000 adults enrolled in the Children's Health Care Program.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.thomas.gov/
