Public Statements
Trade Laws Modification
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Dec. 8, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


TRADE LAWS MODIFICATION -- (House of Representatives - December 08, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. I thank the gentleman and also for his years of dedicated service to this institution. He will truly be missed.
Mr. Speaker, regrettably I rise to oppose this legislation, in particular the portion that would grant permanent trade relationship with Vietnam. I do so for one very particular reason. According to the National League of POW/MIA families, there are currently 1,798 personnel missing, still missing, from a Vietnam war that ended about 35 years ago.
These families have continued to meet with resistance from the communist Vietnamese Government and have failed to allow them to adequately search for their loved ones. Yet today, this legislation will reward that country and that government. I believe that is unacceptable. I think we should be talking about how to reward Vietnam for its good conduct if they were to cooperate fully with the efforts to recover these individuals.
We have within the Department of Defense an office that is called the Defense POW Missing Personnel Office, whose sole purpose is to help account for these missing personnel that we lost during that conflict. Yet of the hundreds of individuals that accompanied President Bush on his visit to Vietnam last month, the director of that organization was excluded from the visit. What does this say to the Vietnamese Government? I think it says we are not serious about the issue.
Today, I think we can honestly say that if we intend to honor those who gave their lives and their sacrifice for our country, we should be willing to confront the Government of Vietnam concerning these missing POW/MIAs. Until Vietnam fully cooperates in that effort with these families to recover their loved ones, I cannot support the normalization on a permanent basis of trade relations with that country, and I would urge my colleagues to do likewise.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
