Public Statements
Combating Autism Act of 2006
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Dec. 6, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


COMBATING AUTISM ACT OF 2006 -- (House of Representatives - December 06, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to join Chairman Barton in support of S. 843, as amended, the Combating Autism Act of 2006. Although many of us would like to have done more sooner, the bill represents a positive step forward in addressing the serious problem of autism in the United States. The legislation focuses on expanding and coordinating autism research at the National Institutes of Health, monitoring the disorder and educating the public through programs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as well as ensuring that citizens have a voice in the Federal Government's response to autism.
Leo Kanner first described autism in 1943 as a developmental disorder characterized by ``extreme autistic loneliness'' and ``an obsessional desire for the maintenance of sameness.'' Since the 1940s, we have learned much more about autism, including its diagnosis, traits, and possible treatments.
Data from several recent studies show that between two and six out of every 1,000 children fall within the definition of what is called autism spectrum disorder. That means that of the roughly 4 million children born in the United States each year, about 24,000 of these children will eventually be diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder.
Autism affects many aspects of a person's mental development, including social skills; speech, language and communication; repetitive behaviors and routines; and the other ways that children interact with the world. These children also often exhibit emotional problems, challenging behaviors, hyperactivity and other difficulties.
As a child with autism grows into adolescence, some of these behaviors are intensified. The teen suffering from autism may also suffer from depression related to their inability to interact normally with their peers.
All of these problems exert tremendous pressures on parents and siblings, who often must devote round-the-clock attention to a family member with autism.
Although there is no cure for autism, early detection and early intervention have shown promise in lessening the impact of the disorder and increasing a child's ability to have normal social interaction and functioning. Early intervention is a child's best hope for reaching his or her full potential.
Furthermore, research has shown that development disabilities like autism can be diagnosed as early as 18 months; however, an estimated 50 percent of children with these disorders remain unidentified until they are 5 years old, missing critical opportunities to improve their functioning early on. Therefore, it is imperative that both parents and doctors caring for children learn the warning signs of autism and are familiar with the developmental milestones that each child should reach.
The legislation before us takes several steps to improve upon and expand educational and outreach activities that will alert the public on the warning signs for autism and the need for early screening and intervention. It will also strengthen biomedical research activities conducted at the National Institutes of Health looking into the causes, pathways and possible cures for autism spectrum disorder.
Finally, the legislation provides for public participation in decisions relating to the Federal response to the autism problem, allowing for greater transparency and accountability.
I am also pleased that many of the major groups and organizations representing autistic people and their families have chosen to support this important piece of legislation. The Autism Society of America, Cure Autism
Now, Autism Speaks and the Dan Marino Foundation are just a few of the many organizations that support the reforms in this bill.
Finally, I would like to thank the lead House sponsor of the Combating Autism Act, Mrs. Bono of California, for her efforts on behalf of autistic people and their families.
I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
