Public Statements
Lifespan Respite Care Act of 2006
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Dec. 6, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


LIFESPAN RESPITE CARE ACT OF 2006 -- (House of Representatives - December 06, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. I yield myself as much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3248, the Lifespan Respite Care Act of 2006. This legislation is an important first step in offering help to the estimated 25 million Americans currently caring for a sick, aged or disabled loved one at home. Whether it is an aged father or mother, a spouse who has suffered a work-related injury, or a child with a special need, almost all of us have either taken care of or know someone who is taking care of a loved one at home.
As an experienced caregiver for my mother and both of my wife's parents, I am personally aware of the benefits of at-home care. But I am also acutely aware that there are financial, emotional and physical burdens for the family caregiver that can sometimes be overwhelming. Respite is a caregiver focused service that allows family members to take a much-needed break from the daily emotional and physical stresses associated with caring for a loved one at home. It also allows family caregivers to attend to financial and practical matters that occur outside their roles as caregivers, such as taking time to pay bills, go grocery shopping or go to a doctor's appointment for themselves.
There are many forms of respite care, including at-home visits by a trained professional, adult day care services or even volunteer respite services provided by local religious or civic organizations. While the demand for respite care services continues to grow at an almost exponential rate, many Americans today are confused by or unaware of the daunting array of public and private respite care options, but may also have difficulty understanding and navigating the complicated regulations and eligibility requirements for various public programs offering access to respite care.
The Lifespan Respite Care Act is an important first step that will set up clearinghouses of information to educate consumers about respite care options available in their areas. It will also allow States to offer consumer information on the broad array of programs offering long-and short-term care support services. The legislation also provides funding to build the needed infrastructure and coordinating capacity at the State and local levels so that more people will have access to respite care, especially those in rural and underserved parts of the country.
For example, this is especially important for people living in many areas of my congressional district in northern Georgia, where people must often drive long distances to access the nearest doctor, hospital or long-term care facility. The bill will also support family caregivers in their noble and compassionate efforts to keep their loved ones at home. Numerous studies have shown that at-home care by a loved one can delay or prevent placement in expensive long-term care facilities, such as a nursing home.
Because the Federal Medicaid program is the primary purchaser of nursing home care in the United States, this informal at-home care saves the Federal taxpayers millions of dollars a year. Other studies have verified what most of us already know. People are healthier and happier when they can live at home. The availability of respite care plays an important role in enabling family caregivers to keep their loved ones at home and delays or avoids other much more expensive options.
This legislation is only a first step in addressing the emerging needs of family caregivers in the United States. To solve this problem, we will need government, health insurance companies, long-term care and other health care providers and consumers all working together to find innovative solutions.
At this time, I would like to acknowledge the efforts of my colleague and vice-chairman of the Subcommittee on Health, the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Ferguson). His passion on this issue is truly commendable, as are his tireless efforts to address so many health care concerns of importance to the American people. I would also like to thank Randy Pate of the Subcommittee on Health staff, and Mr. David Rosenfeld, formerly of our staff, for their hard work on this important legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I would strongly urge my colleagues to support my bill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
