Public Statements
Deal Announces $75 Million in State Transit Awards
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 22, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal, joined by State Road & Tollway Authority (SRTA) Executive Director Chris Tomlinson, today announced 11 transit projects that will receive a total of $75 million in state funding through the GO! Transit Capital Program. The program, created and administered by SRTA, aims to address capital-related public transportation needs throughout the state.

"Today marks the first time that Georgia has made this type of significant investment for transit systems statewide," said Deal. "These 11 projects represent major milestones in transportation infrastructure and demonstrate our commitment to improving mobility in every corner of the state. Once completed, these projects will address traffic congestion and support economic development through increased access to jobs. I want to thank SRTA board members, Executive Director Chris Tomlinson and members of the General Assembly for their leadership in ensuring our critical transportation needs are addressed."

During the 2015 legislative session, the Georgia General Assembly designated $75 million in general obligation bonds for the program and identified SRTA to administer the funds. Existing public transportation operators, as well as local, regional and state government units were eligible to apply for the GO! Transit Capital Program.

"The GO! Transit program was created to give a boost to Georgia's public transportation systems, and the projects that we are awarding will go a long way towards improving transit in communities throughout Georgia," said Director Tomlinson. "This type of funding is critical to helping us address Georgia's transportation needs, from mobility and congestion relief to safety."

SRTA began taking award applications in October 2015. Applicants went through a review and selection process by SRTA staff with input from transit stakeholders. Awards were based on a set of criteria developed to assess a project's ability to meet major statewide transportation goals, including improving safety and increasing mobility.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-06-22/deal-announces-75-million-state-transit-awards
