Public Statements
Sober Truth on Preventing Underage Drinking Act
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Nov. 14, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


SOBER TRUTH ON PREVENTING UNDERAGE DRINKING ACT -- (House of Representatives - November 14, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 864, the Sober Truth on Preventing Underage Drinking Act. Commonly referred to as the STOP Act, this legislation takes several important measures to address the problem of underage drinking.
Underage drinking is a serious problem in our country that has serious consequences. It is estimated that nearly one-third of children and adolescents between the ages of 12 and 20 use alcohol, which is a higher percentage than those who use tobacco or illicit drugs. Alcohol is a leading contributor to death and injury among adolescents. Over 5,000 young people die every year as a result of injuries that involve drinking.
Not only does underage drinking cause accidents, injuries and death, but it can have a lasting impact on a young person's physical development. Studies have shown that the human brain continues to develop into a young person's early 20s, and that exposure of the developing brain to alcohol may have long-lasting effects on intellectual capabilities and increase the likelihood of alcohol addiction.
The legislation before us today will take several steps to address the problem of underage drinking at the national level. It would also assist States, localities and institutions of higher learning in their efforts to prevent underage drinking. The bill would create a nationwide media campaign to educate youth and parents on the dangers of underage drinking. It would also assist States in collecting data on underage drinking laws and their enforcement around the country, so that States can collaborate and learn from each other about which strategies are most effective at combating this problem. The bill also calls for research to be conducted on the influences and pressures that entice youth to consume alcohol.
I am pleased to recognize Congresswoman Roybal-Allard, the lead sponsor of the bill, Congressman Tom Osborne and other Members who have worked so hard on this legislation.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, let me say to my friend from Arizona (Mr. Flake) that I agree with his observations and I agree with his concern; but as pointed out by Mr. Osborne, I believe that this is a bill that can help solve part of that problem, to give some oversight mechanisms to existing allocations, to give some response back to this Congress about programs that are working and that are not working.
I think the challenge that we all face, and I pledge to him to work with him cooperatively in this effort, is in the appropriations process. And pointing out this is not an appropriations bill, this is an authorization bill, that in the appropriations process, that we try to make sure that our appropriators funnel the money only to those programs that are authorized, such as this one, that will have some oversight and response back to this Congress, so that we can eliminate duplicative programs. I would pledge to him that I would work cooperatively with him in that effort.
But I do believe this is a well-thought-out piece of legislation and one that I would urge this body to adopt
http://thomas.loc.gov/
