Public Statements
Supporting the Goals and Ideals of Red Ribbon Week
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 29, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF RED RIBBON WEEK -- (House of Representatives - September 29, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I rise today in support of House Resolution 1028, a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of Red Ribbon Week and to commemorate the life and service of DEA Special Agent Enrique ``Kiki'' Camarena, who died in the line of duty in 1985 while engaged in a battle against illicit drugs.
As my colleagues are aware, Red Ribbon Week, which will take place during the week of October 23 this year, encourages children and teens to choose a drug-free life. The resolution before us today encourages all people of the United States to promote drug-free communities and to participate in drug-free prevention activities in support of healthy, productive, drug-free lifestyles.
We know that ultimately education is the answer to preventing drugs among our children. What Red Ribbon Week does is nationally recognize the importance of keeping our youths off drugs, and I am particularly pleased that we are also commemorating Special Agent Enrique ``Kiki'' Camarena with this resolution. The agents of the Drug Enforcement Agent serve the public to make our communities a safer place to live and work. Our gratitude to them for doing their part in our communities and to keep them drug free should certainly be recognized.
Mr. Speaker, I think this is a great resolution, and I would like to commend my good friend from Indiana, Mr. Souder, for sponsoring this legislation and for his leadership on this issue. I would also like to commend my colleague on the Energy and Commerce Committee, Mr. Terry from Nebraska, for serving as an original cosponsor of the legislation.
I urge my colleagues to support this important resolution.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
