Public Statements
National Institute of Health Reform Acto of 2006
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 26, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH REFORM ACT OF 2006 -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I would, as I rise in support of this legislation, first of all express appreciation to Chairman Barton, who has previously spoken. Without his determination and hard work, we wouldn't be here tonight. It has been 3 long years, but he stuck by the issue, and I think the legislation that is here will be a great improvement. It will help improve research, the outcomes at NIH, by enhancing the agency's transparency by its reporting and its strategic planning for medical research.
During the 3-year development period, the Committee on Energy and Commerce and its Subcommittee on Health has held 11 hearings, had numerous interviews with NIH Institute and Center Directors, conducted consultations with NIH Director Zerhouni and Former NIH Director Harold Varmus, worked closely with experts in the area of public-sector organizational theory and design, piloted town-hall-style meetings with stakeholders, and the development of legislation to reauthorize programs of the NIH have been reached through a fully bipartisan process.
This is indeed a good day, and the National Institute of Health Reform Act I think is long overdue. That was reflected by the overwhelming vote in the committee of 42-1 as we passed this legislation out.
I would like to also join Chairman Barton as he thanked the staff, and they have done tremendous work: Cheryl Jeager, Katherine Martin, and John Ford. They have worked long hours, and tonight we see the results of their efforts.
I hope, too, that as we pass this tonight that we will also be able to see our companion body do the same and that we will have this legislation on the President's desk by the end of this year and before the conclusion of this Congress. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
