Public Statements
Supporting the Goal of Eliminating Suffering and Death Due to Cancer by the Year 2015
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 19, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


SUPPORTING THE GOAL OF ELIMINATING SUFFERING AND DEATH DUE TO CANCER BY THE YEAR 2015 -- (House of Representatives - September 19, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I am pleased to rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 210, a resolution supporting the goal of eliminating suffering and death due to cancer by the year 2015.
To many people, the goal of eliminating suffering and death due to cancer in under a decade may seem impossible or at least highly unlikely. But when we take a step back and look at the amazing things we have accomplished in the last three decades, I believe that with the hard work and concentrated effort of our Nation, this goal is realistic and achievable.
Thirty years ago, just hearing the word ``cancer'' sent chills down people's spines. Cancer of any kind was seen as a virtual death sentence. And unfortunately, today cancer is still a death sentence for far too many people from all ages and all walks of life.
But for an increasing number of Americans, cancer is no longer a death sentence as it once was. Rather, it is becoming a preventable, controllable, beatable disease. Today medical science is accomplishing things that were undreamed of 30 years ago. For the first time, we are seeing a decline in the numbers of lives claimed by cancer each year. People are living longer both with the disease and after the disease. Screening is better and more widespread than ever. Treatments are better and safer, and outcomes continue to improve. Based on the strides that we have made, I can honestly say I think we are winning the war on cancer.
I can also say with confidence that the future of cancer research looks bright. With the mapping of the human genome, we will be able to identify each person's cancer-related genes. Using this information, we can design tailored prevention and treatment options for each individual patient. The availability of these advanced techniques is not a question of if, but when.
While the goal of ending suffering and death from cancer by the year 2015 requires us to set our eyes on the future, we must also focus on what can be done today. The resolution before us encourages Congress to examine how the resources of this great Nation can best be harnessed to reach the ultimate goal to finding a cure. Whether through government-sponsored research, partnerships with the private sector, investors, or philanthropic organizations, we must pursue this enemy of cancer on all fronts.
We must set priorities. We must demand more for our money. We must foster the next generation of cancer scientists and researchers and encourage more young people to enter this high calling. We must ensure that the fruits of research make their way into clinical practice and into public health efforts to reduce the burden of cancer. We must promote policies that encourage proper intellectual property management, the key to scientific innovation. We must make sure that people who qualify have access to clinical trials.
But finally and most importantly, we must not forget the human face of cancer. Outside of this Chamber, thousands of people are gathering on the National Mall as part the American Cancer Society's Celebration on the Hill. People whose lives have been touched by cancer from every State and every congressional district across the United States have come to celebrate life, to remember those that were lost, and to have their voices heard. I applaud their courage, faith and perseverance, and I look forward to meeting with many of them during the coming hours and days.
With their help and shining example, along with the continued attention of this great Nation, we can meet the challenge set forth in the resolution, to end suffering and death from cancer by the year 2015.
In closing, I would like to commend the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Shaw) for introducing this important resolution. I urge my colleagues to support it.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
It is apparent that there is more than one cancer that we are fighting around here, and that is the cancer of political rhetoric that would take a resolution designed to say that we have a goal of eliminating cancer within the next 10 years and try to change it into one of political talk.
I would invite the gentleman from California to accompany me and Mr. Pallone tomorrow to the Energy and Commerce Committee, where we will be voting to once again reauthorize and to change and expand the concept of the National Institutes of Health of which the Cancer Institute is one.
I would remind him that the National Institutes of Health funding has been doubled during the Republican control of this Congress, something that has not happened prior to that time.
Everyone knows that this is a resolution on its face that is designed to say let us all get behind this issue and put aside political rhetoric and try to have an achievable goal. It is regrettable, and I would apologize to those who are here because they are concerned about the issue of doing something about it, that even a resolution of encouragement and establishing a goal has to take on political overtones.
Tomorrow, the Energy and Commerce Committee will reauthorize and change some of the provisions that have hampered research within the National Institutes of Health and in that will be the Institute for Cancer Research, and I think that is a laudable goal, one that we will be bringing to the floor in the not-too-distant future.
I urge the adoption of the resolution.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I am pleased that we are here today uniting behind this bill and this goal, but we can and we must do much more than pay lip service to meeting the 2015 deadline. Let's take this opportunity to come together and eradicate cancer by fully funding NCI, by supporting local centers, and by reauthorizing and funding the very programs that reach the men, women, and children who need them most and can least afford them.
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I have no further requests for time, and I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I am pleased that we are here today uniting behind this bill and this goal, but we can and we must do much more than pay lip service to meeting the 2015 deadline. Let's take this opportunity to come together and eradicate cancer by fully funding NCI, by supporting local centers, and by reauthorizing and funding the very programs that reach the men, women, and children who need them most and can least afford them.
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I have no further requests for time, and I yield back the balance of my time.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
