Public Statements
Deal: Amazon to Create More Than 500 Jobs in Jackson County
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 22, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Amazon will create more than 500 full-time jobs in the Braselton area. The 600,000-square-foot Amazon fulfillment center in Jackson County will be used for packing and shipping large items such as household décor, sporting equipment and gardening tools.
"Amazon's decision to develop in Jackson County speaks to the strength and vitality of Georgia's business-friendly environment," said Deal. "We are thrilled that a global leader such as Amazon has chosen to expand its footprint here in Georgia. This project further bolsters Georgia's reputation as the nation's No. 1 state in which to do business."
Amazon currently employs more than 1,500 full-time employees in Georgia and there are more than 70,000 authors, sellers and developers statewide growing their businesses and reaching new customers through Amazon.
"We are excited to expand in the state of Georgia and add a new fulfillment center to better serve our customers in the region," said Akash Chauhan, vice president of Amazon's North America operations. "This facility will create hundreds of new jobs with competitive pay and great benefits starting on day one. From the local community to state leadership, we appreciate the tremendous support from elected officials for this project and we look forward to growing in the Peach State."
Amazon customers will be able to support nearly 28,000 charitable organizations with operations in Georgia by shopping on smile.amazon.com, where they can designate a portion of their purchase price to their favorite charities through the company's AmazonSmile program.
"We are excited that Amazon has chosen to locate in Jackson County," said Jackson County Commission Chairman Tom Crow. "Amazon's investment in Jackson County is not only an investment in our workforce but will create a partnership with our community, positively impacting us for years to come."
"Braselton is delighted to welcome Amazon to the town," said City of Braselton Mayor Bill Orr. "We have an outstanding corporate citizenship and Amazon is a great addition and fit for our community. Our town looks forward to partnering with Amazon and its employees."
The Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) Logistics, Energy, Agribusiness & Food Team director Brittany Holtzclaw represented the Global Commerce division throughout this project in partnership with the Jackson County Area Chamber of Commerce and the Jackson County Industrial Development Authority.
"Collaborating with one of the world's most recognizable global brands as they grow their presence in Georgia is very exciting," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "We are thrilled Amazon made the decision to locate their new fulfillment center in Jackson County, and we look forward to working with them as they continue to impact the world from their Georgia operations."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-06-22/deal-amazon-create-more-500-jobs-jackson-county
