Public Statements
Fetus Farming Prohibition Act of 2006
By: Nathan Deal
Date: July 18, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


FETUS FARMING PROHIBITION ACT OF 2006 -- (House of Representatives - July 18, 2006)
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I rise in support of this legislation. As a cosponsor of the House equivalent of this Senate bill to prohibit fetus farming, I believe it is something that we need to take action on.
What is fetus farming? Simply put, it is the creation and development of a human fetus for the purposes of later killing it for research or for harvesting its organs.
While advances in scientific research have led to some new and exciting treatments that have enlarged and enhanced the quality and length of human life, we must not lose sight as to what we are trying to accomplish. Scientific advancement should aim to affirm and to improve human life.
Unfortunately, some have begun to pursue scientific research for its own benefit or for profit, without respect for human life. Science without respect for human life is degrading to us all and reflects a hollow and deceptive philosophy, a philosophy that we as a people should never condone.
In the grisly process of fetus farming, a woman might become pregnant with the sole intention of selling the tissue of her unborn child. An unscrupulous individual could pay a young, underprivileged woman, for example, to become pregnant so that the fetal tissue could be harvested. Even more appalling and disturbing, human embryos could be harvested for their tissue after developing in the womb of a nonhuman animal.
While some of these scenarios may seem like something out of the realm of fantasy, fetus farming is an emerging possibility in our world. As I stand here today, some scientists are engaged in animal research that uses cloned embryos, implanted and grown in the womb before being aborted so that the tissue could be harvested. Sometimes, cloned animal fetuses are allowed to develop almost to the newborn stage before being aborted and used to test new therapies.
We now know that human cloning is not only a possibility but is already happening. Many of my colleagues may have heard or read about a technique called somatic cell nuclear transfer, also known as therapeutic cloning, in which a cloned human embryo is created and then destroyed for the purposes of harvesting its cells. It is only one small step further to begin creating and developing human fetuses for the purposes of research or for harvesting the unborn child's organs.
Just because scientists have the knowledge to do it, the technology to do it, and some may even have a financial motive or other incentive to do it, does not make it right.
Congress should take this proactive step to eliminate fetus farming. Human life should never be made into a commodity, and I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of S. 3504.
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
