Public Statements
Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, Loretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006
By: Nathan Deal
Date: July 13, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


FANNIE LOU HAMER, ROSA PARKS, AND CORETTA SCOTT KING VOTING RIGHTS ACT REAUTHORIZATION AND AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2006 -- (House of Representatives - July 13, 2006)
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I
want to clear up several misconceptions, I think, that have occurred here.
First of all is, we are concerned in my State and some of the ones who spoke about the continuation of section 5, which requires preclearance. This bill, as all bills, have certain findings of fact, and I want to address some of those findings of fact.
The first one is based on the fact that there were hundreds of objections interposed as one of the conclusions that justifies the extension. The American Enterprise Institute says that the raw numbers on objections are insufficient to measure support for reauthorization. They give the statistics, and the statistics are that from 1982 to 2005, out of the 105,000-plus objections, 0.7 percent received objections in the covered States. From 1996 to 2005, out of 54,000-plus, only 0.15 percent drew objections.
The second finding is that the number of requests for declaratory judgments justifies extension. That same study concludes that those are so small as to be insignificant.
The third finding is that of continued filing of section 2 cases originating in covered jurisdictions. The University of Michigan Law School report shows that since 1982 more lawsuits filed under section 2 ending with the determination of liability have occurred in noncovered jurisdictions than in covered ones; and the example being, in 1990 more court findings of section 2 violations occurred in New York or Pennsylvania than in South Carolina.
Mr. Chairman, I would suggest that this is something that if we are going to make findings of fact they ought to be true findings of fact, and just because the bill says they are the facts does not necessarily make them so.
We are proud in our State and we have worked across party lines and across racial lines; and the latest study that is cited in one of the reports is from the 2000 voter year in Georgia. In Georgia, 66.3 percent of eligible blacks were registered to vote. Only 59.3 percent whites were registered to vote, a 7 percent plus on those who are black. On voter turnout in Georgia in that election cycle, 51.6 percent of black voters voted; only 48.3 percent of white voters voted. So we have made substantial progress.
The right of extension of section 5 for preclearance that requires that you get Justice Department approval just to annex a piece of property into a municipality, just to move a voting precinct from one place to another place, requires preclearance. I would suggest that this is not appropriate.
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, today, some 41 years after the first Voting Rights Act was passed by Congress, the facts that relate to infringements on voting have substantially changed. And here we are talking in this amendment about a portion of the Voting Rights Act that was deemed to be temporary and was deemed to be remedial in nature.
The bill we are asked to pass today, however, without this amendment relies on facts that are over 40 years old, and the Norwood amendment seeks to overturn those facts and base this legislation on facts that exist today, in fact, the three most recent Presidential elections rather than the election of Lyndon Johnson.
Now, the opponents of the Norwood amendment argue that it might render the Voting Rights Act unconstitutional to do that. Doesn't that give you some pause, some concern? If you can't justify this legislation on the facts of 2006, if you can't base it on the last three Presidential elections and those facts will make your act unconstitutional, that alone ought to cause you to vote against it.
This is here because the 15th amendment has given jurisdiction to Congress to do certain things, and we act on those facts. But the facts are still the facts even though this bill may attempt to say they are something different.
Just because some of our Members prefer to linger in the sins of the past, it is our responsibility to legislate on the facts of the present, and those facts do not justify an extension of section 5
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
