Public Statements
Amending Public Health Service Act with Respect to the National Foundation for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
By: Nathan Deal
Date: July 11, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


AMENDING PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT WITH RESPECT TO NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2006)
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 655, legislation to make needed improvements to the CDC Foundation. The CDC Foundation is a private, nonprofit foundation established by Congress in 1992 to help the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention fulfill its mission on protecting health and promoting safety. It is located in my State of Georgia. The CDC Foundation is a unique private-public partnership that supports the important work of the CDC both here in the United States and around the world.
When public health emergencies strike, the CDC Foundation harnesses the know-how of the private sector to fill the gaps and get around government red tape, helping to keep Americans safe from harm.
To fulfill its mission, the CDC Foundation relies heavily on the ingenuity and resources of private donations. In the 11 years since its incorporation, the CDC Foundation has raised more than $100 million in private donations from individuals, corporate partners, and other foundations. With the relatively small Federal investment of half a million dollars per year for operating expenses, the CDC Foundation has been able to leverage over $15 million per
year in private funds over the last 5 years. This represents an amazing 30-to-1 return on the Federal investment.
These funds allow the foundation to manage over 100 programs that work directly with the CDC and the United States in over 30 countries around the world.
The CDC Foundation helps to bring an international focus to the work of the CDC that is having a direct impact on the health of U.S. citizens here at home. When deadly infections like SARS or bird flu arise in distant parts of the world, the world-renowned expertise of CDC experts can play an important role in disease monitoring and prevention. Effective intervention at the source can stop these diseases in their tracks, preventing them from ever reaching our soil.
With help from the CDC Foundation, experts at the CDC train local public health officials from around the world, offering valuable resources and expertise to fight deadly infections and save lives.
But the CDC Foundation doesn't just protect Americans by supporting overseas activities. Here in the United States the Foundation gives CDC needed flexibility during public health emergencies. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina last year, for example, the lack of computers and Internet access was hampering the CDC's work in detecting and containing potential disease outbreaks among Houston-area hurricane evacuees. Thanks to the ready availability of CDC Foundation funds, these CDC teams were able to cut through the red tape and purchase the equipment they needed to get the job done.
Furthermore, the CDC Foundation is served by an outstanding internationally renowned board of directors that draws its members from the corporate, philanthropic, educational and public health sectors. These leaders have served ably in bringing about both accountability and flexibility to this unique public-private partnership. And I would urge the support of this legislation today.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, the proposed legislation today, as has already been stated, has already received strong bipartisan support as it unanimously passed the Senate, and likewise, passed the Energy and Commerce Committee of the House.
The bill makes several changes to the existing CDC Foundation statute. For example, it allows greater sharing of resources such as private office space and facilities from the CDC to the Foundation. It also extends the lengths of fellowships granted by the Foundation beyond the current limit of 2 years.
The bill will allow the director of the CDC to shift more of her discretionary funding to cover the administrative and operating cost of the foundation. Like any nonprofit or charitable foundation, the CDC Foundation must cover its administrative costs out of its own funds. This legislation will allow the CDC director to provide the Foundation between $500,000 per year up to the $1.25 million per year for operating expenses, depending on need.
Finally, the bill provides additional accountability for Federal resources by requiring a report of the Foundation's activities to be submitted to Congress each year. With these improvements contained in this legislation, I am confident that the CDC Foundation will be able to attract additional significant private funds and expand its role in assisting the CDC.
The continuing partnership between the Foundation and the Federal Government is helping the CDC to have a positive impact on people's health in the United States and around the world.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of this bill.
I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN THE TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
