Public Statements
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2007
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 9, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


FOREIGN OPERATIONS, EXPORT FINANCING, AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, my amendment is similar to the one we have just discussed that Mr. McHenry was talking about, except that it is broader in the context of dealing with not just those who would kill cops, but those who would kill other citizens in our country, who would rape our children and our women, who would sell and deal in distributing major drugs in our country, in other words major criminals who commit these crimes within our borders and then flee back across the border.
Mr. Chairman, I would suggest that this is similar also in that what the chairman has done, and I commend him for this, is that he has put into the base bill the language that was adopted in the conference committee last year.
As in the similar situation previously, it contains a waiver provision for the Secretary of State to waive the provisions for a country that refuses to extradite under the terms of this language.
The only other exception from that variation is that it uses the words that an individual must be indicted. The language we have used, and the language that is consistent in most extradition treaties is charged.
There is a legal difference between the two. My amendment would change the language back to the way it was when it passed the House last year, to an individual who is charged rather than having to be indicted, and then strikes the language that allows the State Department to waive the provisions of this part of the Act.
Now, I believe the chairman probably is going to receive this favorably, and I would thank him in advance for that. But I would say to him that I had a second amendment that I will not offer, but I would call it to his attention and ask that he consider the merits of it, because it deals with some more of the technicalities of extraditions.
It deals with a country that would, rather than dealing with a specific individual extradition, just simply issues a broad statement that we will not extradite anyone if they face punishment of 20 years or 25 years.
And the language that we have is tailored to individuals, not blanket-type waivers. The other part is, that if they simply do not respond to an extradition request, we think those are technical areas that ought to be examined. I do commend the chairman not only for his willingness to insert and agree to this kind of language, but also for his long service in the interest in this year.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, reclaiming my time.
Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for that. I would say in conclusion that I hope that the State Department will deal in better faith in dealing with issues such as waivers. I know the chairman and others in the conference are going to be under extreme pressure from the State Department to reinsert waiver language.
But I would say when we give the State Department discretion in the nature of a waiver, they owe it to this Congress, out of respect for what we think is important about extraditing people who have committed the most heinous crimes against our citizens, and for whom those countries are receiving taxpayer dollars and assistance, to do more than they did last year in a one-sentence waiver that made no distinction between those countries that were trying and those countries that were not.
I thank again the chairman. I urge him to stand firm on this issue.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
