Public Statements
Supporting the Goals and Ideals of National Osteoporosis Awareness and Prevention Month
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 6, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL OSTEOPOROSIS AWARENESS AND PREVENTION MONTH -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. And I rise today in support of House Resolution 265, a resolution authored by Representatives BERKLEY and BURGESS, that establishes a National Osteoporosis Awareness and Prevention Month.
Osteoporosis is a disease characterized by low bone mass and structural deterioration of bone tissue which can lead to fragile bones and an increased susceptibility to fractures, especially the hip, spine and wrist.
Osteoporosis is a major health threat for an estimated 44 million Americans, or a full 55 percent of people 50 years of age and older. In the United States, 10 million individuals are estimated to already have the disease and nearly 34 million more are at an increased risk for osteoporosis.
Of the 10 million Americans estimated to have osteoporosis, 8 million are women and 2 million are men.
Osteoporosis is often called a silent disease because it can progress very slowly over time without symptoms until a fracture occurs. The consequences of osteoporosis can be devastating, painful, costly and even deadly. Approximately 20 percent of hip fracture patients will die within a year after their fracture, usually from complications related to the fracture.
People tend to assume that osteoporosis is an inevitable part of aging. But for the most part, it is preventable. Prevention of osteoporosis should begin in early childhood and continue throughout life. Building a strong skeleton during childhood, adolescence and young adulthood can help people avoid osteoporosis later in life.
The National Osteoporosis Foundation recommends five steps that can optimize bone health and help prevent osteoporosis. First, eat a balanced diet rich in calcium and vitamin D to build and maintain strong bones. Foods rich in calcium include dairy products like milk and cheese and fish like salmon. Very few foods are rich in vitamin D, but milk is often fortified with vitamin D. Sunlight exposure to the hands, face and arms for 5 to 15 minutes, two to three times a week, helps the body produce its own vitamin D.
Second, engage in weightbearing exercise.
Third, don't smoke or drink too much.
Fourth, talk to your doctor about bone health.
And fifth, have your bone density tested and take medication as directed by a physician.
The activities of National Osteoporosis Awareness and Prevention Month encourage Americans to take the proper steps to protect themselves from osteoporosis, including talking with their health care professionals about their bone health.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this important resolution.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
