Public Statements
Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2007
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 24, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 24, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 1 minute.
Mr. Chairman, it is with reluctance that I come today because this is a matter that we would rather not have to deal with on this floor. It relates to the limiting language that was placed in the bill by way of a manager's amendment that was not debated in the subcommittee but was inserted prior to the full committee and taken by voice vote.
It relates to the restrictive language that does not allow the Corps of Engineers to upgrade its master plans and water control plans. The bottom line of this is that this is involved in litigation that has been going on at least since 1990 in the Federal courts. Most recently, the Federal courts have ordered by virtue of a decree in the District of Columbia District Court that the Corps of Engineers is to proceed with its NEPA studies. This relates to the water usage along two major river corridors that originate in the State of Georgia and also, of course, supply water into Alabama and Florida.
We believe that we should not as a Congress interfere with the actions between States that are in litigation. The courts have actually spoken on the issue. We think they should be allowed to proceed with the actions they have directed the corps to take and that Congress should not inject itself into this matter.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the remaining time.
I would share the respect that I have for my colleagues from Georgia and Florida. This is just one of those issues we have a disagreement on.
Let us set the record straight. Yes, there is ongoing litigation. It all started in modern times in 1990 when Alabama sued the Corps of Engineers in the Northern District of Alabama, certainly a favorable venue, and has proven to be favorable for them over the years.
At a later point in time, about 13 years later, a suit was instituted in the District of Columbia court. It is that court that has now resolved some of the issues and that court has issued an order, even though Florida and Alabama attempted to intervene to prevent that court order from going in effect.
On January 20, 2006, Judge James Robertson of the U.S. District Court of the District of Columbia ordered the corps to perform its obligations under the settlement agreement ``as expeditiously as practicable.''
They then went back to the Alabama court where they filed suit in 1990. They asked that judge to intervene and to enjoin the operation of the District Court of Columbia. That judge did temporarily until she was overturned by a ruling of the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals, but they also asked that same judge if she would order the Corps of Engineers not to do the NEPA and the water plan update, and even that judge who has been a favorable venue refused to do so.
The reality is the court has ordered this to go forward. Congress should not inject itself into this issue.
And, yes, I compliment my friends from Alabama for outnumbering us on the Appropriations Committee and being able to put this in the bill, but I urge you to support the Deal amendment.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
