Public Statements
Encouraging All Eligible Medicare Beneficiaries to Review Available Options to Determine Whether Enrollment in a Medicare Prescription Drug Plan...
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 10, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


ENCOURAGING ALL ELIGIBLE MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES TO REVIEW AVAILABLE OPTIONS TO DETERMINE WHETHER ENROLLMENT IN A MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN BEST MEETS THEIR NEEDS FOR PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE -- (House of Representatives - May 10, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss something of great importance to all Medicare beneficiaries. As my colleagues are no doubt aware, on January 1 of this year, prescription drug coverage for our seniors became more than just something we talked about in this body. It became a reality for every single person eligible for Medicare.
This legislation accomplished a very important thing. It helped millions of senior citizens save thousands of dollars on their prescription drugs.
For years, before enactment of this new benefit, we heard the horror stories of our seniors having to choose between groceries or their medicines, or having to cut their pills in half, all because they just couldn't afford their prescription drugs. Well, now, all those beneficiaries have the option to have good drug coverage and have the quality of life that we wish for all of our American seniors.
As of today, we have nearly 37 million Medicare beneficiaries with drug coverage. This is an outstanding number. The unparalleled effort to get this brand-new change to Medicare up and running and get people enrolled has truly been incredible. However, there are still individuals who have not yet signed up, and we want to make sure that they are aware of this new benefit and can examine the options available to them, and can and will make a decision as to whether or not to sign up.
We have to remember, though, that this is a voluntary benefit. If a beneficiary chooses not to enroll, then that is his or her choice. However, we will ensure that all seniors have the information available to them to make such an informed decision.
We are on the verge of an important date in the implementation of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. The initial enrollment period for drug coverage ends at midnight, May 15. All beneficiaries who have not signed up for this new benefit will need to make a choice. If there is a Medicare prescription drug plan out there that will save you money on your prescriptions, I would urge these seniors to sign up before May 15 in order to avoid paying a penalty. Like Medicare part B, if a beneficiary fails to enroll in part D during their initial eligibility period, then they may have to pay a penalty.
Even if you are a Medicare beneficiary who doesn't have any prescription medicines right now, I urge you to consider signing up. You can't wait until you have had an automobile accident to buy automobile insurance. And if you are eligible today and can save money, then I urge you to sign up before the open enrollment period ends.
Local outreach efforts and enrollment events are being continued across the country, and the capacity is in place to help callers who phone to 1-800-Medicare. People with Medicare can join a Medicare drug plan through the mail, by phone or over the Web now through May 15 of 2006. All completed applications postmarked on May 15 must be processed.
I urge all my colleagues to help their constituents to examine all the options available to them. We can't afford to let the opportunity to save thousands of dollars on prescription medicines pass even one of our seniors by.
I encourage, therefore, my colleagues to adopt this resolution.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. Actually, Mrs. Johnson is not the author of the resolution. I believe I am. I would have the same response because I find it somewhat interesting that the gentleman from California who, according to my statistics, says 83 percent of his seniors who have signed up for the program, who I believe voted against the inception of the program to begin with, and who has repeatedly said how bad the program is, would now say we need to give more time to sign up for a program that he doesn't like to start with. There is something basically inconsistent.
If we had seen as much effort on the other side to encourage seniors to sign up as we have seen to discourage them from doing so, perhaps we would have had a higher percentage rate. He is to be commended because 83 percent is a very good rate. I commend the citizens of his congressional district for having the foresight to be able to take advantage of this great opportunity.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me clarify a statement that Mr. McDermott attributed to me about keeping the pressure on senior citizens. I did not say that. The New York Times said that.
He said he had a 96-year-old mother who is confused. I have a 99-year-old mother. I am sure he was like me, a good son, who helped his mother figure out what is the plan that was best for her, and she signed up and she is very happy with it.
He also alluded, as did the last speaker, to low income seniors who are under a deadline. CMS has made it very clear if they are entitled to the low income subsidy, that the deadline will not apply and they will take care of that problem. So the problem is a nonexistent one.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of our time.
Mr. Speaker, this has indeed been an interesting debate. Here we are having people who did not vote for the bill who for 40 years controlled this House and kept saying to seniors, we are going to provide you with a drug benefit and never delivered.
The Republicans delivered. They did not like the bill. They still do not like the bill. Now they say they do not want a deadline, but the bill that they drafted had a March 1 cutoff with penalties following that.
Ours is more generous than that. The purpose of today's debate is to simply remind seniors, this is a voluntary program. If you want to sign up you should do so before May 15.
The confusion, yes, there is confusion because there are a lot of choices out there. Our friends on the other side of the aisle said this will not work and nobody will have any choices. The truth of the matter is, there probably are maybe too many choices, but it is better to have choices than none at all.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
