Public Statements
Expressing Need for Public Awareness of Traumatic Brain Injury and Support for Designation of National Brain Injury Awareness Month
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 3, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


EXPRESSING NEED FOR PUBLIC AWARENESS OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY AND SUPPORT FOR DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL BRAIN INJURY AWARENESS MONTH -- (House of Representatives - May 03, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 99, a resolution expressing the need for enhanced public awareness of traumatic brain injury and in support for designation of a National Brain Injury Awareness Month.
I want to thank the principal sponsors of this legislation, Congressman Bill Pascrell from New Jersey and Congressman Todd Platts from Pennsylvania, who are the cochairs of the Congressional Brain Injury Task Force. I commend them for their leadership and hard work to increase the level of public awareness of this silent epidemic of traumatic brain injury.
Despite the fact that each year an estimated 1.4 million Americans sustain a traumatic brain injury, costing our society tens of billions of dollars and permanently altering the lives of countless people, too few people are aware of the dangers posed by these highly preventible injuries.
To help address this problem, House Concurrent Resolution 99 resolves that Congress, one, recognizes the life-altering impact traumatic brain injury may have both on Americans living with the resultant disabilities and on their families; two, recognizes the need for enhanced public awareness of traumatic brain injury; three, supports the designation of an appropriate month as National Brain Injury Awareness Month; and, four, encourages the President to issue a proclamation designating such a month.
Again, I commend Mr. Pascrell and Mr. Platts for their leadership on this issue. I encourage my colleagues to adopt the resolution.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
