Public Statements
Deal Taps Georgia-Based Artist for MLK Statue
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 20, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal and Rep. Calvin Smyre (Columbus) today announced that Atlanta-based artist Martin Dawe will create the statue of Martin Luther King, Jr. that will stand on the Georgia Capitol grounds. Smyre, Dean of the Georgia General Assembly, led the search to replace sculptor Andy Davis, who was killed in a 2015 motorcycle accident.
"While the passing of Andy Davis was a tragic loss to his family and community, his contributions to this project and to the legacy of Dr. King will live on," said Deal. "I'm grateful to Rep. Smyre and the Georgia Arts Standards Commission Selection Committee for their tireless efforts in ensuring the creation of this long overdue memorial moves forward. Martin Dawe is a gifted artist who shares our vision for this fitting tribute. I look forward to dedicating this sculpture at a future Martin Luther King, Jr. memorial ceremony at the Capitol."
Smyre, a Georgia Arts Standards Commission board member, worked with the commission's selection committee, which included a representative from the King Estate, Georgia Arts Standards Commission Chairwoman Carrie Ashbee and Georgia Capitol Museum Registrar Karin Johnston. Smyre also acted as a liaison to the state and the King Estate throughout the selection process.
"Martin Dawe is a renowned sculptor and I am delighted that we are at this juncture after the tragic passing of Andy Davis. During the first selection process Andy Davis became my friend," said Smyre. "His vision will live on through this historic process. We are now looking forward to working with Martin Dawe as the newly selected sculptor. I am hopeful that we will be participating in an unveiling in early 2017. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. inspired our nation with his dream of hope, peace, justice, and human rights. I am honored to have played a role in passing legislation signed by Governor Deal which authorized the placement of a Capitol grounds statue honoring Dr. King. As I have stated prior, it is now time for us as a state to make this a reality. Naming a new sculptor is a major step in in this historic project. I look forward to working with all stakeholders as we undertake the statue's design, likeness and the private fundraising effort."
Deal announced plans to erect a statue on Capitol grounds at last year's Martin Luther King, Jr. memorial ceremony.

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-06-20/deal-taps-georgia-based-artist-mlk-statue
