Public Statements
Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Dec. 17, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


STEM CELL THERAPEUTIC AND RESEARCH ACT OF 2005 -- (House of Representatives - December 17, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on H.R. 2520.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2520, the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005. This legislation will expand the number of stem cell options available to Americans suffering from life-threatening diseases.
Every year, nearly two-thirds of the approximately 200,000 patients in need of a bone marrow transplant will not find a marrow donor that matches within their families. These patients must rely on the help of strangers to donate bone marrow or transplant. To assist these patients, Congress established the National Bone Marrow Registry to quickly facilitate unrelated donor transplants. Through this program, Congress made a significant investment to connect patients with a rich source of stem cells that offer immediate clinical benefits.
With scientific advances, Congress must now make changes to reflect new therapeutic options. Cord blood stem cell units have been shown to be a suitable alternative to adult bone marrow for the treatment of many diseases, including sickle cell anemia. This is an especially important advancement for those Americans who have desperately searched for a bone marrow donor, but could not find a suitable match, even with the help of the National Bone Marrow Registry. As another rich source of stem cells, cord blood transplant is another chance at life for many patients.
The bill before us today builds on the critical investments we have made over the past two decades with the National Bone Marrow Registry and retools this design into a new, more comprehensive stem cell transplantation program which will include not only bone marrow but cord blood units.
Through a competitive contracting process, this new program will allow transplant doctors and patients to access information about cord blood units and bone marrow donors at the same time through a single point of access. This new program does not create a preference for either cord blood or bone marrow. Instead, it will provide comprehensive information about both sources to stem cells to doctors and patients and allow them to make the clinically most appropriate choice.
I would like to recognize Congressman BILL YOUNG. It is his drive and steadfast support for an idea of a national registry for bone marrow that lead to the program's creation. Mr. Young has continuously supported improving this program and does so today by reformatting the program's design. I am pleased that Congress is recognizing his dedication by naming the new program the C.W. Bill Young Cell Transplantation Program.
Lastly, I would like to note that through the discussions with the Senate, we have improved the original House bill to make the program more effective, including improved patient advocacy and case management services. We have created a new demonstration program to allow families with a sick child who could be helped with a cord blood transplant from a sibling to bank cord blood from newborns should they decide to have another child. We have also expanded the clinical outcomes database to include biologically related donors in addition to unrelated donors.
Finally, we require the Food and Drug Administration to provide a report on its progress in developing licensure requirements for cord blood units.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
