Public Statements
Deal: GE to Launch Global Digital Operations Center in Atlanta
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal Kasim Reed
Date: June 9, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that GE Digital will establish its first global Digital Operations Center in Atlanta. This project will create 250 jobs and represents an investment of approximately $3 million in the local community.
"Georgia's dynamic business infrastructure continues to cultivate an environment that attracts and retains world leaders such as GE," said Deal. "GE Digital's decision to establish a presence in Atlanta speaks to Georgia's status as a thriving hub for the technology industry. Our skilled workforce, global logistics network and resources for innovation provide companies with opportunities to grow and further demonstrate why Georgia is a top destination for job creators."
This move is part of GE Digital's larger effort to bring together digital capabilities from across GE in a single organization, providing customers with industrial solutions and software needed to solve real-world problems.
"GE is excited to leverage the top talent in Atlanta and the inclusive business environment across the state to deliver innovation through IT services and operations across GE," said Chris Drumgoole, vice president and chief technology officer. "These new positions will join the growing IT organization within GE Digital that is helping GE become the premier digital industrial company."
The newly created jobs will include positions in system administration and engineering, full-stack operations and engineering and service desk professionals.
"I am pleased that GE, a company at the forefront of digital innovation, has selected the City of Atlanta for its first global Digital Operations Center," said Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed. "With leading research universities, a highly skilled workforce and a welcoming environment that encourages creativity, our city continues to be a destination of choice for some of the world's most advanced technology companies. Atlanta is a city where innovation happens every day."

Source:
