Public Statements
Amending Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to Provide for Regulation of All Contact Lenses as Medical Devices
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 26, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


AMENDING FEDERAL FOOD, DRUG, AND COSMETIC ACT TO PROVIDE FOR REGULATION OF ALL CONTACT LENSES AS MEDICAL DEVICES -- (House of Representatives - October 26, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on S. 172.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise in favor of S. 172, and I would like to thank the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) and the gentleman from California (Mr. Waxman) for their work on the House companion bill, which was H.R. 371.
Historically, the contact lens industry in the United States has secured prior approval from or clearance by the Food and Drug Administration prior to the introduction of contact lenses into the United States market. These same contact lens manufacturers also have been subjected to and complied with numerous requirements codified in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
A few companies challenged the FDA's ability to regulate non-corrective decorative contact lenses as medical devices to create a loophole in the current law. As a result, these entities distribute their products without the attendant controls that historically have safeguarded contact lens consumers.
The uncontrolled distribution of decorative contact lenses has caused a variety of eye injuries and conditions. At first, what might seem to be a minor irritation, if left untreated, can develop permanent eye damage and loss of vision. S. 172 would close this loophole by restoring the FDA's ability to regulate all contact lenses as medical devices.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to support this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
