Public Statements
Social Services Emergency Relief and Recovery Act of 2005
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 6, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


SOCIAL SERVICES EMERGENCY RELIEF AND RECOVERY ACT OF 2005 -- (House of Representatives - October 06, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Let me go back and sort of summarize what this bill does and does not do. It has been a little confusing, because it is a bill that does basically two things: One is it cuts Federal spending, and then it uses part of the savings from that cut in four different areas and then applies the balance left over from those four areas to reduce the Federal deficit by about $150 million over the next 5 years.
First of all, where does the cut come from? What it does, in order to achieve the savings of some $690 million over 5 years, is to eliminate from Medicare and Medicaid payments for erectile dysfunction drugs. We have heard a couple of speakers who have addressed their dislike of the elimination from Federal taxpayer spending the payment for these drugs.
Well, my people back in North Georgia tell me, and without any hesitation whatsoever, that they do not think their tax dollars ought to be paying for erectile dysfunction drugs for either individuals under Medicare or Medicaid, and they believe that these are not drugs that should be available to convicted sex offenders.
Now, some would say, oh, you mean it is possible a convicted sex offender could get an erectile dysfunction drug that is paid for by taxpayers? Very definitely that is the case. There is no way for a pharmacist who is presented with a Medicare or Medicaid card to have access to the NCIC records to determine if that individual is a pedophile or some other kind of sex offender. That would be the height of embarrassment to this Congress, to discover we are allowing for those kinds of situations to exist.
Now, it is not just a personal opinion of mine. This House has already expressed its opinion on this issue earlier this year. In the consideration of the Labor-HHS appropriation bill, the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King) had an amendment to that bill that would have eliminated the payment for ED drugs. That amendment received overwhelming support, some 285 to 121 who voted for it. There were many others, like me, who supported the concept but, because we did not think we should cede jurisdiction on legislating on the issue to the Committee on Appropriations, voted against the amendment. In principle, we supported the concept. This is the forum in which we have legislatively addressed it by an authorizing committee to address this question.
Now, that does not mean that individuals who are under Medicare part D cannot obtain these drugs if they choose to do so. The plans are free to offer them. They simply cannot use Federal taxpayer subsidies to pay for them.
All right, that is where the savings come from, is the elimination of ED drugs from Medicare and Medicaid, some $690 million over 5 years. Now, what are we spending the savings on? Part of it is spent, as we have heard from some speakers, to extend the Medicare Qualified Individual 1, the QI-1 program, for another year. That applies to 150,000 low-income Medicare beneficiaries, to give them assistance in paying their Medicare part B premiums.
A second part goes to transitional medical assistance, TMA. Most Members recall that was an essential ingredient in welfare reform. It provides individuals who are transitioning from welfare to work additional coverage and medical assistance to them during that transitional period.
A third category is it applies and uses money for abstinence education to fund those block grant programs for 3 months. These are programs that States have launched to try to sustain the abstinence approach and it has been a successful program and would fund it for and additional 3 months.
The fourth category, the one we heard a lot of talk about at the beginning of this debate, was that it does provide $500 million to the three States most severely affected by Hurricane Katrina, that is, Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi, for assistance in paying unemployment compensation. It provides $400 million to Louisiana, $85 million to Mississippi, and $15 million to Alabama. I think that is an appropriate way to spend part of the resources, and we then apply the remaining $150 million to reducing the Federal deficit.
Now, I would remind my colleagues that if they did not like the provisions or did not think the provisions for the unemployment compensation were adequate, our counterpart across the way passed by unanimous consent a bill that addressed these other areas, but had no provisions for unemployment compensation at all in their legislation. We are hopeful they will accept our version of it.
In conclusion, I remind Members who forget, we have appropriated over $60 billion in emergency assistance for hurricane victims, the largest single appropriation for emergency disaster relief that this Congress has ever voted for. Some of the speakers seem to forget we have done that. What we are doing here for unemployment compensation is only a small part of a very, very large package; but it is an essential part of it. We hope that this body, the House as a whole, would do as we have seen the Senate do: they approved their version by unanimous consent. I would urge my colleagues to overwhelmingly support this bill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
