Public Statements
Expressing Sense of House of Representatives that Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Be Commended for Implementing Medicare Demonstration...
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 6, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


EXPRESSING SENSE OF HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES THAT CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES BE COMMENDED FOR IMPLEMENTING MEDICARE DEMONSTRATION PROJECT -- (House of Representatives - October 06, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on the resolution under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 261, a resolution sponsored by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Hall). This resolution commends the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for implementing the Medicare oncology demonstration project, and requests that it extend this successful program. I am pleased to report that due to this important demonstration project, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has received valuable data that will serve to better treat patients suffering from cancer.
Cancer is one of the leading causes of death to Americans, and almost every American has had their life touched in some way by this horrible disease. Simply put, cancer kills. Cancer does not discriminate. It takes many forms and effects young and old alike.
I commend the CMS for their leadership in addressing this effective treatment for cancer patients. Specifically, I commend CMS for approaching cancer care from a totally different perspective. Providing quality cancer care is not just about administering drugs to patients, albeit performing this task safely and efficiently is important. Providing cancer care includes managing pain, minimizing nausea, and limiting fatigue. It means arming clinicians with information and evidence-based practice guidelines to obtain the best possible clinical outcomes.
That is what the chemotherapy demonstration has begun to provide towards the advancement of cancer care in this country. The demonstration initiated last fall by CMS reflects our commitment to quality and the use of clinical data to pave the way for enhanced quality care, including good clinical outcomes and reduced cost to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.
These are principles which I stand behind, and I commend CMS for their work to ensure that cancer patients receive the best possible care. This resolution was approved by voice vote by the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and I encourage my colleagues in the House to do the same this afternoon.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
