Public Statements
Recognizing the Need to Pursue Research into Causes, Treatment and Cure for Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Sept. 28, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


RECOGNIZING THE NEED TO PURSUE RESEARCH INTO CAUSES, TREATMENT AND CURE FOR IDIOPATHIC PULMONARY FIBROSIS -- (House of Representatives - September 28, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, about 7 years ago, my good friend and a good friend of many Members in this Chamber, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Norwood) was diagnosed with a life-threatening disease that, despite his own lifetime experience in the medical care field, he said he had never heard of before. In fact, the vast majority of Americans have never heard of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, or IPF. That is why we are here today, to raise the awareness of the American public about this debilitating and fatal disease so one day we may seek and find a cure.
IPF is a serious lung disorder for which there is no known cause, and more importantly, at this time no known cure. IPF causes progressive scarring or fibrosis of the lungs, gradually interfering with a patient's ability to breathe and ultimately resulting in death.
Recent studies have identified that approximately 83,000 individuals suffer from IPF in the United States, and an estimated 30,000 new cases develop each year. The availability of a new treatment option for IPF is essential to improving overall patient care and further research will be required to develop these new therapies as well as assess their safety and efficacy.
Over the past 7 years, as I have watched my friend, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Norwood), I have seen firsthand the debilitating effect this disease can have on a person's life, and given that the median survival rate for IPF patients is only 2 to 3 years, we are extremely fortunate to have our friend with us today. But unfortunately, each year thousands of Americans are not as fortunate as the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Norwood) and that is why I encourage my colleagues to adopt this resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the cooperation of the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Brown) in bringing this resolution to the floor. As you have heard, those of us from Georgia have paid tribute to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Norwood), who has been the victim of IPF. But it is a testament to his fighting spirit and to the esteem with which we hold him that we have used his situation as the example for which this legislation has been based.
We urge the adoption of the concurrent resolution so that those in the American public as a whole can become aware of the significance of this disease. Hopefully through our efforts here and the efforts of researchers across the country, we will find a cure for this now fatal disease.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
