Public Statements
State High Risk Pool Funding Extension Act of 2005
By: Nathan Deal
Date: July 27, 2005
Location: Washington DC


STATE HIGH RISK POOL FUNDING EXTENSION ACT OF 2005 -- (House of Representatives - July 27, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (H.R. 3204) to amend title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act to extend Federal funding for the establishment and operation of State high risk health insurance pools, as amended.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that we are on the verge of passing H.R. 3204, the State High Risk Pool Funding Extension Act. Simply put, this bill will help more people get health insurance. People with preexisting conditions or high health care expenses face major difficulties when they seek to purchase health insurance.
This is especially true for workers in small businesses or those who are self-employed. So they often go without health insurance and turn to government programs like Medicaid when they become sick or disabled.
This bill authorizes Federal grant money to help fund the initial start-up and operation of State high-risk pools. Risk pools allow eligible individuals to purchase health insurance, pay premiums, and receive health coverage through private insurers. This grant money will allow States with those pools to cover more individuals and reduce the premiums they must pay.
It will also allow States like my home State of Georgia that do not have a qualified high-risk pool to simply start one. This bill will help to reduce the number of uninsured and provide affordable health insurance for more Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the bill's sponsors, the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Shadegg), who I will recognize in a few moments, and his Democratic counterpart, the gentleman from New York (Mr. Towns), and their staffs for their hard work on this bill.
I would also like to thank the staff of the Energy and Commerce Committee, including Bill O'Brien of the majority staff, and Amy Hall on the ranking member, the gentleman from Michigan's (Mr. Dingell), staff for their efforts to come up with a bipartisan proposal that will help States to ensure that individuals who do not otherwise have health insurance are able to purchase it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my counterpart as the ranking member of the health subcommittee for what I perceive to be his unqualified endorsement of this legislation.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, will the gentlewoman yield?
Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. I yield to the gentleman from Georgia.
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman. I want to assure her that we will work with her and the other Representatives from the territories in conference to try to make sure that they are included in this reauthorization of the State high-risk pool. I thank her for her comments. I think they were well taken. And I have already spoken to the author of the legislation, and he assures me that he is in agreement with the proposition that the gentlewoman has brought to our attention.
Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. I thank the gentleman for agreeing to take this up in conference.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
