Public Statements
Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005
By: Nathan Deal
Date: July 27, 2005
Location: Washington DC


PATIENT SAFETY AND QUALITY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2005 -- (House of Representatives - July 27, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume, and I rise today in support of S. 544, the Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005.
This bill reflects the bipartisan and bicameral agreement of the leadership of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. The bill is identical to H.R. 3205, which was passed by the Committee on Energy and Commerce last week.
In 1999, the Institute of Medicine first identified that up to 98,000 Americans die every year as a result of preventable medical errors. In the report, entitled ``To Err is Human,'' the IOM recommended that Congress pass legislation to protect the development and analysis of information related to improving safety and quality. The Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 codifies the principal recommendations made in the IOM report.
This bill will assist in promoting a culture of safety and quality; and, more important, it will save lives. The bill encourages providers, such as hospitals and physicians, to share information with HHS-certified patient safety organizations to assess ways in which to improve the delivery of health care and reduce medical errors. Information regarding patients, providers, and reporters, called patient safety work product, would now remain confidential and protected.
Mr. Speaker, the bill fosters open and honest communications among providers and patient safety organizations to achieve an environment where providers are able to discuss errors openly and learn from them. The bill also provides a privilege from disclosing patient safety work product in most court or administrative proceedings.
In addition to enjoying bipartisan support, this bill is also supported by providers and consumer groups. These include the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, the American College of Surgeons, and the AARP.
This new language builds directly on the work of our colleague, the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Bilirakis), who worked to develop a bipartisan patient safety bill that passed by over 400 votes in the last Congress.
I also want to recognize Senators ENZI and KENNEDY; our House ranking member, the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Dingell); and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Health, the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Brown), for their leadership in this effort. They, along with the staffs of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Senate HELP Committee, deserve our thanks for producing this important bipartisan bill.
I also specifically would like to recognize Andrew Patzman and David Bowen from the Senate HELP Committee, along with Bridgett Taylor, Purvee Kempf, Nandan Kenkermath, Melissa Bartlett, and Brandon Clark for their important help on this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Bilirakis), the original sponsor of this legislation in the past Congress and one who has continued to work on it.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
