Public Statements
National All Schedules Prescription Electronic Reporting Act of 2005
By: Nathan Deal
Date: July 27, 2005
Location: Washington DC


NATIONAL ALL SCHEDULES PRESCRIPTION ELECTRONIC REPORTING ACT OF 2005 -- (House of Representatives - July 27, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, we are facing a growing national health care crisis involving the abuse of prescription drugs. Earlier this month, Columbia University released a report that showed that more Americans are now abusing controlled prescription drugs than cocaine, hallucinogens, inhalants and heroin combined. The report also stated the number of Americans who admit abusing prescription drugs nearly doubled to over 15 million from 1992 to 2003, while abuse among teens has tripled. H.R. 1132 will provide immediate assistance to States to help them reduce prescription drug abuse. The bill will provide new funding to help States establish and operate data systems that will allow physicians to detect and prevent prescription drug abuse.
Physicians are on the front line of providing care to patients and understand the need to stop prescription drug abuse before it starts. H.R. 1132 will provide physicians with the tools they need to learn when their patients attempt to obtain multiple prescriptions for addictive drugs. The bill will also allow physicians to continue to provide proper medication therapy to their patients. This is why groups like the American Medical Association, the American Society of Anesthesiologists, and the American Society of Interventional Pain Physicians all support this legislation.
I would like to thank the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Whitfield), the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Norwood), the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Pallone), and the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Strickland), members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, for their efforts on this bill. As a result of their hard work, the bill has been strengthened and improved from last year when the House approved similar legislation by voice vote.
Among the many improvements are requirements that drug monitoring programs meet new standards for the security of information handling, availability of information, limitations on access to the database, and procedures to ensure database accuracy.
I would also like to thank the staff of the Energy and Commerce Committee for their hard work and in particular thank Ryan Long and John Ford for their efforts to negotiate a bipartisan agreement on this bill.
H.R. 1132 will allow States to reduce the improper abuse of prescription drugs and ensure that monitoring programs can communicate with each other to stifle interstate drug diversion. I urge my colleagues to support this needed legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of this bill, I have no further requests for time, and I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
