Public Statements
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2006
By: Nathan Deal
Date: June 20, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2006. -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.
Mr. Chairman, I wish to enter into a colloquy with the chairman of the subcommittee on the subject of the Defense POW/Missing Persons Office.
It has come to my attention, Mr. Chairman, that the Defense POW/Missing Persons Office, the DPMO, has received complaints from such groups as the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia and the organization of Korea/Cold War Families of the Missing. In particular these groups object to the DPMO's action in the following areas:
one, the manner in which they have developed policy without substantive interagency integration and dismiss Vietnam's ability to provide answers;
two, their hostility towards the POW/MIA families;
three, their attempt to take total control of the League of Families' annual meetings and operations of the Joint POW/MIA Account Command;
four, the use of the COIN Assist fund as a leveraging mechanism to control agenda of the League of Families.
I specifically ask that a report be completed assessing the level of cooperation and interaction between the Defense POW/Missing Persons Office with the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia and the Organization of Korea/Cold War Families of the Missing and all other members of those organizations, particularly with respect to compliance with all applicable provisions of law. Further, I ask that the report be included in the Statement of Managers to accompany the conference report for this bill, H.R. 2863.
Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. I yield to the gentleman from Florida.
Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Chairman, I understand the concerns, and the gentleman and I have spoken at length about these issues and I am equally concerned as is he. And I think it is appropriate that we do ask for such a report; and when we meet with the Senate for conference on this bill, we will seek to include such a report.
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. I thank the chairman.
I would ask unanimous consent to insert certain documents into the RECORD. These documents represent and outline the various frustrations and concerns of the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia and should be considered and addressed by the Office of the Secretary of Defense and their report.
I believe this report must reflect a comprehensive study of DPMO's guidance and policy initiatives. I am particularly concerned that the concerns of the National League of Families be seriously addressed. A report that merely waxes over such differences as a ``family feud'' would not be found acceptable.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. I thank the chairman again.
I ask that upon completion of this report that it be submitted to the House Committee on Appropriations, the House Committee on Armed Services, and that it be made available to the personal offices of all members of the POW/MIA congressional caucus.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
