Public Statements
Hearing of House Committee on Energy and Commerce - Department of Energy's Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Proposal and the Energy Policy Act of 2005: ...
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 9, 2005
Location: Unknown


HEARING OF HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE - DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY'S FISCAL YEAR 2006 BUDGET PROPOSAL AND THE ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2005: ENSURING JOBS FOR OUR FUTURE WITH SECURE AND RELIABLE ENERGY
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Deal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you, Mr. Secretary, for joining us here today. We appreciate your being here and wish you the very best in your new challenge. And we know that there will be a lot of challenges.
As I had mentioned yesterday in a meeting that we had an opportunity to visit with you, I represent Paducah, which has the Gaseous Diffusion Plant, the only one in which the--uranium is being enriched today. And there are two major cleanup efforts going on there. Of course, the contract that the Department of Energy has with Becto Jacobs expired in September of 2003. And that has now been extend four times, as you have sought to decide on a new contractor. And that decision was made, and now I think three companies are challenging that decision. And so it has placed--it has delayed the entire process of the cleanup, and it has been pretty frustrating for a lot of interested people.
In addition to that, I had mentioned the DUF-6 plant yesterday, and Congress has authorized the DUF-6 plant. Congress has appropriated money for the DUF-6 plant. Originally, we had a goal of starting that plant in 2007, and we are already 16 months behind in the plant and the construction process. And I just wanted to urge you, as you take on these new responsibilities, to do everything that you can to expedite both of those situations. And if there is anything that we need to do here in the Congress to help or facilitate that, I just wanted to commit to you that we certainly would be willing to try to do that.
So that is the first point I would like to make.
The second point is our most abundant resource is coal. Our most economical power source is coal. The demand for electricity is projected to increase by 50 percent by the year 2025. We have technology, clean coal technology that is available that would meet all of the clean air standards, and I certainly hope that you would be a real proponent of the coal industry, because I think it is best available for the people in our country. Low-cost electricity can help an economic expansion, an economic growth and create more jobs. And I certainly hope that you would support that.
And I want to just touch on one other thing, and I would like to give you an opportunity to respond. Yesterday, Mr. Walden had mentioned that he was very much concerned about the administration's proposal to allow the Power Marketing Administrations to increase the cost of power that they sold to the regional co-ops and other entities. And many of those, the Southeastern Marketing Power and the Bonneville Power and so forth, are--there are some relatively large areas of unemployment and low economic growth in those areas. And if you increase the cost of power in those areas, I think it will have a dramatic impact on opportunities for further economic growth.
So many of us are concerned about that proposal, but I would appreciate maybe your brief comments on those three areas.
Thank you.
Secretary Bodman. First, with respect to the DUF-6 or Uranium Hexafluoride plant, I did inquire about that, following my discussion with you, sir. And in terms of the--what I have been told by those at the Energy Department, they are moving--we broke ground last summer on schedule, and I am surprised that your comment that we are that far behind that you say that is inconsistent with what I have been told. You may be right. I may be wrong. But we will certainly get you the facts on that. Page 64, Line 1294
[The following was received for the record:]
Today, site preparation work is almost complete and construction of the administration and warehouse facilities at each site is about to commence. However, we are fourteen months behind the original contract estimate of 2006, but expect to start operation in 2007. The Department has not been satisfied with contractor's performance and is holding the contractor accountable. Additionally, DOE has stepped up oversight and interfaces to ensure expectations are being met.
Secretary Bodman. All I can tell you is that from the Energy Department's standpoint, this is a matter of law, and we are going to do this. It has been passed by the Congress. It has been signed by the President. And we have been instructed to do it, and we are doing it, as best I know. And so we will continue with that, and you may be assured that we will continue to maintain our focus there.
With respect to coal technology, I think I eluded to that before, but I would just reiterate it. I guess I have heard us described as the Saudi Arabia of coal and at least we have a disproportionate share of coal reserves compared to other countries. It is certainly in our interest. We have coal of a wide variety of quality and potential environmental problems. And this Department has, over the years and in this budget, proposed increases in various approaches to improving the coal technology, including a commitment on moving forward on the FutureGen project, which is an important part of coal.
The third question you asked I lost track, sir. Is this on PMAs?
Mr. Deal. Yes, sir.
Secretary Bodman. This was on the PMAs and the Power Marketing Association. This is strictly an effort that the administration has made during stringent economic times to try to bring more effective business practices to these organizations and to allow them to modify their rates, the prices they charge to their customers more in keeping with independence of the management. Now these organizations are kind of strange birds. On the one hand, they compete against the private sector. On the other hand, they are non-profit organizations, and so they have aspects of both. But the administration feels that this proposal will help bring about greater efficiencies in the management of these and hence the idea of allowing them to gradually increase rates and also to clarify just what they categorize as debt. A lot of these organizations have gotten very creative in terms of different financing techniques, and so this was a matter that our--that those changes in financing techniques were not necessarily covered in the laws setting these up, and if you will, I view it as sort of modernizing just what is debt, what isn't debt,
and how to clarify it.
So those are the efforts, and that is the reason for it.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_house_hearings&docid=99900.wais
