Public Statements
Hearing of House Committee on Energy and Commerce - Combating Spyware: H.R. 29, the Spy Act
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Jan. 26, 2005
Location: Unknown


HEARING OF HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE - COMBATING SPYWARE: H.R. 29, THE SPY ACT
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Deal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And first of all, I would like to welcome my friend, Mr. Baker, to the panel today and for those of you who don't know, he was formally an elected public service commissioner of our State survey, I believe, in his former life, and we are pleased that he is here taking a position on a cutting-edge issue that affects all of us.
I have been looking at the enforcement provisions of this bill, and I would like to ask you a couple of questions, anyone on the panel, quite frankly, as to whether or not the enforcement provisions we provide are adequate or whether or not we have the potential of doing some harm here. And let me highlight a few of the issues that I am concerned about. As I read the bill, the primary--the exclusive enforcement provision is through the FTC. And it only outlines civil penalties, financial or civil penalties. Are there potential criminal penalties associated with this activity under the referenced sections to the existing Federal Trade Communication Act? I don't think so since it goes ahead here and it says the exclusiveness of the remedies are those outlined here in this bill. So are we only talking about civil penalties, as you understand the proposed Act? Anybody?
Mr. Rubinstein. Yes, Congressman, I believe that is correct. I would point out, though, that there may be criminal complaints that could be brought under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act for at least some of the more egregious bad practices that would be viewed as computer abuses under that statute.
Mr. Deal. Okay. I am concerned that we talk very much here about exclusiveness of remedies and we hinge it all to conduct defined in this Act and make it the exclusive remedy. Let me tell you another concern that I have, too, and that is the preemption clause of the statute. As Mr. Baker knows, our Governor has recently announced an aggressive State proposal to deal with spam through State statute. I believe he is proposing to make it a felony. He is mad about it, as you can tell. We are here preempting State laws. It is a little bit strangely worded to me, however. It talks about preemption of State law, and it says anything that is the prohibited conduct described in sections two and three. And then it goes, on the next page, to talk about that only an attorney general of the State may bring a civil action under the law of any State if such action is premised in whole or in part upon the defendant violating any provision of this Act. Does that take local district attorneys at the State level out of the picture of enforcing anything that would relate to this? And if so, what is the venue? That really, to me, is a primary concern. If it is a criminal act, the venue is where the act is committed, not where the defendant is located, which is the venue for civil penalties. Would somebody expound on that area?
Mr. Baker. If I may, Congressman, and thank you for your kind words.
As to venue, I believe we have a situation where as long as any part of that transaction touches where the consumer is, the violator may or may not be in that same jurisdiction, but if the harm--where the harm is done is sufficient for venue.
And to your earlier question as far as the exclusive remedy and enforcement and preemption issues, I would look, by analogy, to exactly the situation that you mentioned with spam where we had Federal legislation in the form of the Can Spam Act. And there were some preemption sections in that. However, that did not totally preempt State laws, either those that were already extent or, as in the case of Georgia, ones that are being introduced, so it is possible to still have Federal legislation without completely preempting--Federal legislation with a preemption clause, it still does not completely preempt State laws, which would complement it. And again, to give you an example of our own efforts in fighting spammers. Even before the introduction and passage of the Can Spam Act, EarthLink still sued spammers. We probably sued about 100 to date and have various counts in those complaints, whether that is Federal laws, like Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, or State laws, whether they are rather more recent laws that are specifically technology related or whether they are just long-standing common law notions of nuisance and trespass. So we have always had the ability and maintain the ability, whether it is a spammer or a purveyor of spyware, to go after them. But--so we view Federal legislation like this as a complement to those efforts and notwithstanding preemption clauses that may be in it or specific requirements for exclusivity of enforcement as pertains to that law. There are still other counts that an online provider could use in going after these folks or State attorney general or another entity. So----
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_house_hearings&docid=99899.wais
