Public Statements
Honoring President Jimmy Carter on His 80th Birthday
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Oct. 6, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


HONORING PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER ON HIS 80TH BIRTHDAY -- (House of Representatives - October 06, 2004)
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 798) honoring former President James Earl (Jimmy) Carter on the occasion of his 80th birthday, as amended.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material as it relates to this resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution which wishes President Jimmy Carter a happy 80th birthday. Our 39th President was born on October 1, 1924, some 80 years ago last Friday, in Plains, Georgia.
In his 4 years in the White House, President Carter worked to make the Federal Government more competent and compassionate and more responsive to the American people. But perhaps President Carter's most significant accomplishment in office was his coordination of the signing of the Camp David Accord between Israel and Egypt. This achievement ushered in an important new beginning for these two Middle East countries.
The President continues to this day to be active in world affairs. For his efforts across the globe, he was awarded the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize. President Carter has always been a very compassionate and tremendously principled man who has based his leadership on his deep Baptist faith.
Mr. Speaker, I know I speak for all Members when I wish President Carter and his family the very best on the occasion of his 80th birthday. My distinguished colleague from my home State of Georgia (Mr. Lewis) deserves commendation from all Members for extending these birthday wishes to President Carter on behalf of the House of Representatives.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, as we conclude this debate on this resolution, I again thank my colleague, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Lewis), for introducing the resolution as we honor our native son, a man that the State of Georgia is indeed proud of, our 39th President, and truly wish to President Carter and his family the best wishes of this body.
I urge my colleagues to adopt and support H. Res. 798.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Mario Diaz-Balart of Florida.). The question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Deal) that the House suspend the rules and agree to the resolution, H. Res. 798, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-thirds having voted in favor thereof) the rules were suspended and the resolution, as amended, was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
