Public Statements
Tribute to Dr. John S. Burd, President, Brenau University
By: Nathan Deal
Date: April 21, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


TRIBUTE TO DR. JOHN S. BURD, PRESIDENT, BRENAU UNIVERSITY -- (Extensions of Remarks - April 21, 2004)
SPEECH OF
HON. NATHAN DEAL
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address the House to honor a pioneer and friend within the higher education arena of Georgia. It is with immense pride and a great honor that I pay tribute to a man that has made similar contributions to our region, but in the higher education arena. Please join me recognizing a friend and a community servant, Dr. John S. Burd, as he retires as president of Brenau University in Gainesville, GA.
Since donning the mantle of president of what was then known as Brenau College in 1985, it could be argued that Dr. Burd has accomplished more in under twenty years than all previous presidents did in the first 107 years of this fine institution's history. Since he first assumed office, his vision of private liberal arts higher education, his dedication, hard work, personal sacrifice, and love of the arts have transformed the college into a nationally recognized university and enhanced the lives of thousands of children and adults of all ages. This multifaceted institution has flourished academically, by student enrollment, by improved facilities, and economically.
In one of his first acts as college president, Jack Burd created the State's very first weekend college in 1986, enabling thousands of returning adult students an opportunity to advance their education and their career potential at Brenau. Just about every college and university in Georgia now emulates this educational model. In 1993, under Dr. Burd's leadership, Brenau College became Brenau University to more accurately reflect the comprehensive nature of the institution. Now graduate programs serve educators and business leaders in management, accounting, and healthcare, continuing education programs engage retired adults, and traditional and non-traditional scheduling formats serve a local, regional, and worldwide student population. And to even further extend the university's outreach, Dr. Burd created the Online College in 2001. This unique institution now includes the Women's College, the Evening and Weekend College, the Online College and Brenau Academy.
Jack Burd's greatest accomplishment may be that he was able to preserve the 125-year-old heritage and legacy of Brenau's original mission, which is the Women's College. At one time there were two-hundred plus women's colleges across the United States. Today there are only sixty-eight. According to the Women's College Coalition, the decline is despite evidence that proves going to a women's college greatly increases the chances that a woman will become a leader, that she will become a scientist or elected official and that she will keep her sights high. Brenau women are leaders in their chosen professions and in their communities.
Under Jack Burd's leadership, the arts assumed center stage at Brenau. The Permanent Art Collection, now one of the fastest growing collections of any college in the United States, boasts more than 1,200 pieces with such names as Renoir and Lichtenstein. Nationally and internationally acclaimed artists exhibit regularly at Brenau with works seldom seen outside New York or Los Angeles. School children by the thousands come to view exhibits and experience hands-on workshops hosted by the art & design department. The performing arts have also flourished under Burd's direction. He negotiated one of the first ever collaborations in higher education between a public institution, Gainesville College, and a private institution, Brenau. The merger, called the Gainesville Theatre Alliance, has brought accolades and honors, regionally and nationally, to all involved.
During Jack Burd's tenure the campus, located in downtown Gainesville, Georgia, has enlarged to include a new library, a new business and communication arts building, performing arts center, fitness center, tennis center, several student houses and apartment buildings. There has been extensive renovation of buildings listed on the National Register of Historic Places-upgrading 19th century buildings for 21st century use. By preserving the university's heritage, Jack Burd brought stability to a neighborhood of Gainesville that is but two blocks from the center of town. Once a declining area with many structures in need of repair, Burd's endeavors and fundraising increased property values and the safety and security of the area, and revitalized what is now a vibrant, desirable area.
Spare time is hard to come by for a president of a busy college. But, Jack found time to lend his considerable talents for leadership and organizational planning to myriad community service groups such as Northeast Georgia Medical Center Advisory Board, First United Methodist Church, the Women's College Coalition, the Gainesville/Hall County Chamber of Commerce, Crawford W. Long Museum, Gainesville Symphony and the Georgia Association of Colleges.
In conclusion, to list all of the Brenau's accomplishments under Dr. Burd's leadership would be laborious and impossible. But a few notable ones that occurred over the past nineteen years include; increasing enrollment by more than 60 percent to 2,300 students; adding 7 graduate level degrees; renovating, constructing, and acquiring 19 campus buildings; obtaining national accreditation; and improving the university's financial situation dramatically from a meager endowment of $2.5 million in 1985 to more than $50 million today. There is no operational deficit and the university's economic contribution to the region is estimated to be $38 million.
How can one exaggerate the importance of what this man has given to northeast Georgia? He leads a private college that manages its finances wisely, contributes to the economic welfare of all, returns highly qualified people to the workforce, and augments our quality of life with cultural events that feed the soul.
Thank you Dr. John S. Burd for all you have given the citizens of northeast Georgia. Congratulations on your well-deserved retirement.
END
