Public Statements
Tribute to John A. Ferguson, Jr.
By: Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 25, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


TRIBUTE TO JOHN A. FERGUSON, JR. -- (House of Representatives - February 25, 2004)
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a previous order of the House, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Deal) is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, it is with great pride and a distinguished privilege for me today to address the colleagues of the House to honor a man who has accomplished more for northeast Georgia over the past 40 years than most people will do in an entire lifetime. Health care is more accessible and a higher quality exists and surpasses that of many metropolitan areas. Our economy has expanded exponentially for decades. Thousands of jobs have been created, and hundreds of thousands of lives have been improved because of the efforts of this one man. I would like my colleagues to join me in honoring my friend and a community service leader, Mr. John A. Ferguson, Jr., as he retires as president and CEO of Northeast Georgia Medical Center and Health System in Gainesville, Georgia.
In 1964, at the age of 23, John came to the Northeast Georgia Medical Center as the first hospital engineer in the State of Georgia. And although he currently held a master's degree in engineering from Georgia Tech, he was determined to continue his education and work to obtain an additional master's degree in health care administration from Georgia State University. At that time, Northeast Georgia Medical Center was known as Hall County Hospital and was a single-entity acute care hospital with only 147 beds and 430 employees.
Within 1 year of being on the staff, John was named assistant administrator, and at the age of 28 he became the youngest hospital administrator and CEO in the State in 1968. Within 10 years of his promotion to CEO, the hospital's acute care bed size had almost doubled, a dedicated 10-bed ICU and 10-bed CCU had been added, as well as a 20-bed mental health unit. From there, northeast Georgia's health care system and quality of life continued under John's leadership. It continued to grow and to improve on an annual basis.
In 1986, he lead NGMC through corporate reorganization, which enabled the organization to expand health care services across county lines and improve access to health care for citizens throughout northeast Georgia who previously had to drive to Gainesville for most of their primary health care services.
Today, Northeast Georgia Health System is a major provider of health care services for 20 counties in northeast Georgia. It has over 3,500 employees and one of the largest and most active volunteer programs in the State. The system now includes a freestanding mental health, alcohol, and drug abuse treatment facility, two long-term care facilities, a satellite cancer center in Stephens County, a hospice service and two hospital campuses with a total of 418 acute inpatient beds. Other major services that have been added under John's leadership include the Ronnie Green Heart Center and Stribling Heart Clinic for advanced heart care, the only comprehensive cancer care service in the region; a strong network over 14 primary care centers located in eight counties; a neonatal intensive care service; and a comprehensive physical rehabilitation institute.
Fortunately for northeast Georgia, John has always understood that to truly impact the health of the community, services cannot be contained within the walls of the hospital. His vision for a healthier community coupled with a heart for people who depend on NGMC for health care services paved the way for a strong relationship with the Hall County Health Department. In the late 1970s, working with the health department, NGMC implemented a midwifery program to extend prenatal care to indigent patients who did not have resources to access private providers of services.
John's vision for a healthier community has resulted in numerous other innovative outreach initiatives. In the early 1990s, NGMC lead a collaborative community effort with local schools, the health department, the Junior League, and other service organizations to generate funds for a mobile health unit to provide basic health care screenings and services to people who had limited resources to access other traditional health care services. NGMC has continued to fund and help staff this service since its inception.
Through the Medical Center Foundation, health initiatives operated by other community service organizations have been supported. More than $300,000 was raised to help fund construction of a free medical and dental clinic for persons who have no resources for care. Since completion of the clinic, the medical center has continued to help fund clinical supplies through the indigent care trust fund for volunteer physicians, dentists, and nurses who staff the clinic. Funds have also been raised for numerous other health-related community benefits, such as the Meals on Wheels program for provision of meals to homebound seniors, the SafeKids Playground at Fair Street Elementary School in Gainesville, automatic external defibrillators for emergency response vehicles in Hall County, and the Challenged Child Organization.
Northeast Georgia Health System is the lead agency for SafeKids since 1997 and currently works with 21 community agencies to develop and fund initiatives to decrease the rate of accidental injuries to children. The SafeKids Coalition has received numerous State and national awards and was recently recognized as National Coalition of the Year.
John's vision for high-quality health care services and his heart for the people who depend on Northeast Georgia Health System have unquestionably made an impact on the community and the health and quality of life in Hall and surrounding counties. I commend Mr. John A. Ferguson as a man who has served our community well and commend him to his retirement.
END
