Public Statements
Rep. Deal Issues Statement Against Intelligence Reform Conference Report
By: Nathan Deal
Location: Washington DC


Rep. Deal Issues Statement Against Intelligence Reform Conference Report
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Nathan Deal (GA-10) took the floor of the House of Representatives today to speak against the Conference Report aimed at implementing reform and improvement of the United States' current security and intelligence operations. Rep. Deal was particularly concerned with House provisions dealing with immigration reform that were stripped from the Conference Report. His complete statement is as follows:
"We are here today because on September 11, 2001, 19 men, all of whom entered our country illegally, overstayed their visas or obtained fraudulent visas, boarded four airplanes and used them as bombs to kill thousands of our citizens. The primary identification documents that allowed them to board those airplanes were state drivers' licenses. Nothing in this bill would prevent those hijackers from using those same drivers' licenses to board those same airplanes and repeat the events of 9/11. If we do everything else to tighten our security and do not close this loophole, we have intentionally ignored the very event that brings us to this day.
Some will say we can deal with that next year. Why not now? Why not be honest with the American people and tell them that we do not have the will to take those drivers' licenses out of the hands of would-be terrorists? Do we think terrorists are going to play fair? Do we think terrorists don't know that they can still obtain drivers' licenses without proving they are lawfully in our country?
Instead of getting tough on terrorists, this bill actually has some built in rewards. Yes. If you illegally enter the country we cannot deport you based on the same evidence that would have denied your entry if you had asked us to come in. What is the reverse logic of that? It's like telling a burglar - we are not going to open the door to our home and let you in, but if you break in, we'll give you free room and board.
Some will say that this is a bill that is tough on terrorists, but the death penalty has been removed as a punishment, even if they use an atomic weapon or release the smallpox virus. Maybe the logic of that is that the terrorists do not fear death so why bother to subject them to the death penalty for their acts. And, if they happen to have qualified for federal benefits, they can still draw their Social Security benefits while they serve their sentences.
The next time an American is waiting in line at the airport, having a body search and their bags rifled through, just hope they don't ask you if the associates of Osama bin Laden could still get on an airplane using the same fraudulent drivers' licenses, because the answer is Yes. Feel more secure?"
http://www.house.gov/deal/press/pr-04intel.shtml
