Public Statements
Amnesty for illegal immigrants, regardless of what the Administration calls it, is wrong for America
By: Nathan Deal
Location: unknown

The ability to openly disagree with, and within, our government without fear of persecution is one of the many rights enacted by our forefathers that has kept America strong for more than 200 years. Consequently, President Bush's recently proposed "Fair and Secure Immigration Reform," is a proposal that I must respectfully, but adamantly, disagree with. And although this proposal attempts to match "willing workers with willing U.S. employers" and encourage border control efforts to be coordinated with countries willing to work with the United States, it falls short in those areas and also grants temporary, legal work status to illegal aliens currently working in the United States.
Immigration is arguably one of the largest security and social issues facing our nation today. I have been informed that more than one million legal and illegal immigrants settle in the United States each year, impacting our education, health care, government budgets, employment, crime and countless other areas of American life. There is strong evidence in Georgia's 10th Congressional District to support this claim.
And while I applaud the President's efforts to bring immigration reform to the forefront of Congressional debate, I strongly disagree with the way in which he proposes to approach the problem. I support a reformed guest worker program. However, I am dismayed by the President's claim that he is against amnesty, when, in fact, he proposes exactly that.
While the plan he has outlined does not include a blanket amnesty, the President has instead proposed an earned amnesty to grant temporary status to those illegal immigrants currently employed in the United States. Additionally, the three-year guest worker program would be renewable for a yet-to-be-determined number of times, and the worker's years as a guest worker could count towards his/her naturalization. We are a nation of laws. To reward immigrants who are in this country illegally, and to pardon employers who hire undocumented aliens, undermines our country's immigration law.
