Public Statements
Deal: Apparel Company to Create More Than 300 Jobs in Metro Atlanta
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 31, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that thredUP, a leading online marketplace for consumers to buy and sell like-new women's and children's clothing, will establish a distribution and warehouse operation in Gwinnett County. This project represents the creation of more than 300 new jobs in the metro Atlanta area.
"thredUP's decision to grow its business here in Georgia is a direct reflection of our first-rate workforce and the ease of access we provide to the company's online customer base," said Deal. "These are critical components for innovative companies like thredUP to continue growing. I am confident thredUP will benefit from the wealth of resources that make Georgia the No. 1 state for business."
thredUP is an augmented marketplace that specializes in the buying and selling of women's and kids secondhand apparel. The company will retrofit and upgrade an existing facility at 2670 Breckinridge Blvd. in unincorporated Gwinnett County. The newly created jobs will include a range of positions including inspection, quality assurance and inventory and HR management.
"We're excited to put down roots here in Duluth and to have access to the area's tremendous high-quality workforce as we build out our team," said John Voris, chief operating officer of thredUP. "By opening new distribution centers in strategic locations across the country, thredUP is able to increase processing capacity, while also offering faster shipping transit times and more localized, seasonally relevant inventory."
With the opening of the new distribution center, thredUP will expand its Southeastern presence to better serve a rapidly growing customer base.
"We are excited that thredUP has selected metro Atlanta for its expanded operations," said Metro Atlanta Chamber President and CEO Hala Moddelmog. "Our region's strength as an innovation and logistics hub and leading universities will be critical assets as thredUP seeks to fill key creative and technology positions and reach new customers. Congratulations to Gwinnett County on this great win."
"thredUP's decision to locate in Gwinnett County demonstrates once again the strong business climate that exists here," said Gwinnett County Board of Commissioners Chair Charlotte Nash. "Gwinnett's skilled workforce and connectivity make it the ideal location for companies like thredUP to grow and thrive."
\Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) project manager Joshua Stephens represented the Global Commerce division in partnership with the Metro Atlanta Chamber, the Gwinnett Chamber Economic Development, Georgia Department of Labor, Georgia Power and Jones Lang LaSalle Commercial Real Estate Agency.
"It is exciting to see inventive companies like thredUP look to Georgia as they are striving to better serve a growing customer base," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "This announcement is indicative of our pro-business environment, collaborative statewide partnerships and a top-notch workforce. Today, we welcome thredUP to Georgia as a new corporate citizen, and we look forward to supporting them as they fill these newly created jobs with Georgia's highly-skilled talent."

Source: http://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-05-31/deal-apparel-company-create-more-300-jobs-metro-atlanta-0
