Public Statements
Issue Position: Immigration Reform
Issue Position
By: Nathan Deal
Location: Unknown

Nathan was the first Republican candidate for governor to announce that he would fight for an immigration law like Arizona's. With the Obama administration now pledging to sue the state of Arizona, Nathan has said he would join Arizona in fighting that lawsuit.
Nathan would essentially implement a statewide 287(g) program that would give local law enforcement agencies the power to work with federal authorities in enforcing our nation's immigration laws.
Deal, a former congressman from Georgia's 9th Congressional District, led the fight against illegal immigration in the U.S. House and authored the health care amendment that prevents illegal immigrants from signing up for coverage through Obamacare. He also authored legislation that would end birthright citizenship to babies born in the United States to parents in the United States illegally, and he put into law in 2005 language that for the first time required proof of identity and citizenship to gain Medicaid benefits. His legislative leadership earned him the highest ratings from FAIR and NumbersUSA, groups that support legislation for cracking down on illegal immigration.
Georgia ranks No. 7 in the nation in the number of illegal immigrants, costing the state approximately $1.6 billion annually. Our public services are stretched beyond their limits during these tough economic times, and our open borders result in our states and counties importing poverty. Local taxpayers foot the bill for these significant additional costs. We have a national immigration system that imposes high hurdles for the highly skilled workers we need yet looks the other way on those who enter the country against the law. We need a guest worker program that's both accountable and enforceable, but without granting a path to amnesty.
As governor, Deal will continue the fight to use our state's constitutional powers to enforce the rule of law. New immigrants have forever been an important part of our American culture, but our system must be orderly, sustainable and in accordance with the rule of law. That's not happening now, so states are forced to take the needed steps on their own.

Source: http://www.dealforgovernor.com/leadership.php
