Public Statements
Deal Announces Teacher Advisory Committee
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced the creation of the Teacher Advisory Committee, which will review recommendations from the 2015 Education Reform Commission in order to provide feedback and guidance to Deal, legislators and policy-makers. The committee is chaired by Rep. Amy Carter, a practicing teacher in Lowndes County, and is comprised of 90 educators throughout the state. These teachers have experience from kindergarten through high school across a wide range of subject areas including STEM fields, fine arts and special and gifted education. Deal announced his intention to create the Teacher Advisory Committee earlier this year.
"Last year, I charged the Education Reform Commission with studying the state's education system and making recommendations on how it can more effectively prepare our students for postsecondary programs and the workforce," said Deal. "The responsibility of the commission was to think beyond the confines of the current system, look into the future and recommend changes that will make that level of educational preparation possible in Georgia. They fulfilled that responsibility and I'm grateful for their hard work and diligent efforts. Now I would like to hear from those on the front lines.
"Georgia's teachers educate, train, mentor and encourage our children each and every day, and they are dedicated to providing a quality education and shaping the minds of Georgia's future leaders. I have tasked the Teacher Advisory Committee with reviewing these recommendations and providing input and feedback. Their experience in the classroom will help guide our efforts as we seek to improve educational outcomes for students, retain the best and brightest teachers and address critical needs in Georgia's K-12 system. I look forward to meeting with them to discuss how we can continue to improve outcomes for Georgia's educators."
The Teacher Advisory Committee will participate in meetings, conference calls and webinars throughout the summer and early fall and provide feedback following each discussion. Dr. Susan Andrews, Director of Special Projects for the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget, will facilitate these discussions.

Source: https://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-05-25/deal-announces-teacher-advisory-committee
