Public Statements
Deal Announces School Award Winners, Launches School Reports Website
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 24, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal along with the Governor's Office of Student Achievement (GOSA) today announced that 187 Georgia public schools in 51 districts will receive the Highest Performing or Greatest Gains school awards. Additionally, GOSA released its new School Reports website, which provides school performance reports for all public elementary, middle and high schools in Georgia. These reports will help parents, students, educators and communities have clear and concise information about school performance to better understand the strengths and challenges of their local schools.
"I want to congratulate all of the award winning schools across our state, as well as the students and teachers who have worked tirelessly toward these accomplishments," said Deal. "We must empower Georgia citizens with tools like the Georgia School Reports website if we want to continue to improve student achievement for future generations. Our communities gain a distinct advantage by having easy access to a school's performance report, and I am confident that this website will serve as an important resource for years to come."
About the awards
The school awards, developed by GOSA and approved by the State Board of Education, are part of Georgia's Single Statewide Accountability System. Highest Performing schools must earn a three-year average College and Career Ready Performance Index (CCRPI) Achievement Score that ranks in at least the 93rd percentile. Greatest Gains schools must earn a three-year average CCRPI Progress Score that ranks in at least the 93rd percentile. For more details on how the awards are calculated, click here.
The 2015 Greatest Gains award winners consist of 127 schools across 49 districts, and the 2015 Highest Performing award winners consist of 106 schools across 15 districts. Forty-six schools in 12 districts are award winners in both categories.








Source:
