Public Statements
Deal Appoints Nine to Boards
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 20, 2016
Location: Unknown

Steve Page, Board of Community Supervision
Page is the CEO of Georgia Probation Management. He is a former member of the County and Municipal Probation Advisory Council and the Board of Community Supervision Advisory Council. Page earned bachelors' degrees in Criminal Justice and Public Administration from Brenau University. He and his wife, Leslie, have three children and live in Cumming.
Michael Terrell, Board of Community Supervision
Terrell is the chief probation officer for Coweta County. He is a member of the Georgia Association of Chiefs of Police, the American Probation and Parole Association and the Georgia Probation Association. He previously served on the County and Municipal Probation Advisory Council. Terrell earned a bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice from the University of West Georgia. He and his wife, Elizabeth, have two children and reside in Newnan.
Elizabeth Delancy, Ph.D., Georgia Council for the Arts
Delancy is the dance program coordinator and an assistant professor of Dance at Darton State College. She is vice president of the board for World Ballet, Inc. Delancy previously worked as a professional dancer and a community workshop leader for the New York-based dance company, Urban Bush Women. She earned a bachelor's degree in Mass Media Arts from Hampton University, a master's degree in Dance and a doctoral degree in Humanities from Florida State University. Delancy is a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. and lives in Albany.
Rick Thompson, Georgia Government Transparency and Campaign Finance Commission
Thompson is the founding partner of RTA Strategy, co-founder of PoliticaLabs and former executive secretary for the Georgia Ethics Commission. Thompson is an adjunct professor at the University of Phoenix. He is a veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps and a member of the Marine Corps League Legislative Committee. He is a member of the nominating committee for the Council of Governmental Ethics Laws Awards and sits on the editorial board of the academic journal Public Integrity. Thompson earned a bachelor's degree from Columbia College and a master's degree in Criminal Justice Administration from Central Missouri State University. He and his wife, Ally, have two children and live in Roswell.
Stephanie Nix, Public School Personnel Indemnification Commission
Nix is an eighth grade Georgia Studies teacher at Ellis G. Arnall Middle School. She has more than 25 years of classroom experience and has held multiple leadership roles in education throughout her career. Nix earned a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in Education from Georgia State University. She and her husband, Michael, have two children and reside in Newnan.
Alvin Wilbanks, Public School Personnel Indemnification Commission (reappointment)
Wilbanks is the superintendent of Gwinnett County Public Schools (GCPS). Wilbanks was president of Gwinnett Technical College from 1984-1996 and has held multiple positions with DeKalb County Public Schools and GCPS. He earned a bachelor's and a master's degree from the University of Georgia and a specialist degree from Georgia State University. Wilbanks and his wife, Celeste, have two children and five grandchildren. They live in Buford.
Glenn Morris, State Board of Dispensing Opticians (reappointment)
Morris has more than 40 years of experience as an optician and opened Morris Opticians in 1977. He has been a member of the State Board of Dispensing Opticians since 1986. Morris and his wife, Joan, have three children and three grandchildren. They reside in Augusta.
Brian Anderson, State Workforce Development Board (reappointment)
Anderson is the president and CEO of the Greater Columbus Chamber of Commerce. He sits on the board of directors for the Georgia Association of Chamber of Commerce Executives, the Georgia Chamber of Commerce board, the Columbus Technical College Foundation board of trustees, the Muscogee Educational Excellence Foundation board and the Georgia Early Education Alliance for Ready Students board. Anderson is a past-chairman of the Whitfield County Commission. He earned a bachelor's degree in Economics from Frances Marion University. He and his wife, Heather, have two children. They reside in Columbus.
Karen Viera, State Workforce Development Board (reappointment)
Viera is chief human resources officer for MCIC Vermont, LLC. Viera holds a Certified Professional and Senior Certified Professional designation from the Society for Human Resource Management. She earned a master's degree in Human Resource Management from Florida International University. She has two children and lives in Roswell.

Source: https://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-05-20/deal-appoints-nine-boards
