Public Statements
Deal: Polymer Logistics to Create 110 Jobs, Invest $4 Million in Dublin
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 19, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Polymer Logistics, a retail ready packaging company, will create 110 new jobs and invest more than $4 million in Laurens County. The company will locate its next U.S.-based logistics and distribution center in Dublin.
"Polymer Logistics is familiar with the competitive benefits our top-ranked business climate and strong logistics framework have to offer," said Deal. "Georgia's strategic resources and skilled workforce create opportunities that attract international companies like Polymer and bolster our presence in the global business community. We look forward to Polymer Logistics thriving here in Georgia."
Polymer Logistics currently operates two service centers in California with an additional center in Texas. The company offers eco-friendly containers to major retailers like Walmart, Kroger, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Carrefour and more.
"Our team has been working in partnership with state and local officials to bring a significant investment and new jobs to Georgia," said Danny Bartal, chief operating officer of Polymer Logistics. "The ease of doing business in the state has been impressive and will accelerate the completion of this facility."
"Dublin has a proven track record of being a logistics leader in the Southeast," said City of Dublin Mayor Phil Best. "Our outstanding highway system and close proximity to the Port of Savannah give us major advantages, and we're thankful the Polymer Logistics team selected us. They will make a big impact on our community."
"Polymer Logistics is yet another international company electing to locate in Laurens County," said Laurens County Board of Commissioners Chairman Emory Lake. "They have an outstanding reputation in their field, and we are delighted that they have selected our community for their East Coast operations."
Project managers Ryan Waldrep and Joseph Huntemann represented the Global Commerce division on behalf of the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) in partnership with the Dublin-Laurens County Development Authority.
"Our state's profile in the global marketplace is raised significantly when companies such as Polymer Logistics choose to do business in Georgia," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Our goal is to be recognized not only as the best place for business but also as a strategic location for innovative and rapidly-growing companies. We look forward to working with our partners in Dublin-Laurens County to support Polymer Logistics in future growth."
About Polymer Logistics
Polymer Logistics' extensive range of returnable transport, storage, and display products includes collapsible bins, folding, nesting and stackable crates, together with reusable dollies and pallets. These offer substantial costs benefits, are more environmentally friendly than traditional one-way transit packaging, and are robust enough to withstand the rigorous demands of retail supply chain logistics for many years. Polymer Logistics' most recent innovation is the wood grain RPC, which brings an upscale look to stores and drives sales and shopper engagement. More information is available at www.polymerlogistics.com.

Source: https://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-05-19/deal-polymer-logistics-create-110-jobs-invest-4-million-dublin
