Public Statements
Deal Announces Professional Learning Grants for Mathematics and Computer Science
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 16, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced seven winners of the Innovation in K-8 Mathematics and/or K-12 Computer Science/Coding Professional Learning Grants. This is the second round of the competitive grant program that supports Local Education Agencies (LEAs), Regional Educational Service Agencies (RESAs) and individual schools in improving instruction in the areas of mathematics and computer science/coding through the development and implementation of innovative professional learning models.
"Effective teachers and engaging curriculum are necessary in order to provide every Georgia student with a world-class education," said Deal. "Skills in mathematics and computer science are increasingly invaluable in the 21st-century workforce, so we must capitalize on innovative methods in the classroom to better prepare our students for future opportunities. As we continue to improve teaching practices and achieve student success, we strengthen our communities and lay the foundation for our future."
Each grant winner will receive up to $150,000 to support innovative professional learning programs that promote student achievement in mathematics or expand student access to computer science/coding programs. Grant recipients will evaluate the effectiveness of the initiatives and submit their findings to the Governor's Office of Student Achievement. The state will use these results to determine the best practices in professional learning for mathematics and computer science/coding.
The grant award winners, along with a description of the funded projects, are listed below.
Mathematics
Baldwin County Schools
K-2 Mathematicians and Writers focuses on developing conceptual understanding, mathematical reasoning and language, and math literacy through a professional learning community (PLC) of teacher leaders. This innovative professional learning program, supported by a partnership between the Baldwin County School District and Georgia College and State University (GCSU), will focus on creating a PLC with 24 lead teachers from the district's four elementary schools, two GCSU faculty members from the Department of Mathematics and a faculty member from the Department of Professional Learning and Innovation. The K-2 PLC will provide content and pedagogical professional development and resources in mathematics with literacy integration through children's literature and key components of literacy.







Source:
