Public Statements
Deal: Sparta Industries to Create More Than 1,000 Jobs in Milledgeville
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 10, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Sparta Industries, a manufacturer of HVAC duct liner insulation, will establish a new plant at the former Rheem Manufacturing building in Milledgeville. This venture is projected to create more than 1,000 jobs and represents a capital investment of $22.5 million throughout the next 5 years.
"Georgia's pro-business climate, highly-skilled workforce and manufacturing infrastructure continue to attract innovative manufacturers like Sparta Industries," said Deal. "This Milledgeville facility will bolster the company's growth and further demonstrate why Georgia is a top destination for job creators. We welcome Sparta Industries to Georgia and feel that our economic environment will be of major benefit to the company."
Using a zero emission process, Sparta Industries manufactures foam insulation for use in the commercial building industry. Sparta Industries will hire plant and warehouse operation, supervision and maintenance personnel at the new facility. The company will also be hiring for sales and administrative positions.
"We look forward to working closely with the community," said Sparta Industries chief financial officer Jeremy Meighan. "Together we can make a well-deserved economic impact on Milledgeville and the surrounding areas."
Sparta Industries founder and board chairman Walter Sommerman has overseen the construction of 32 plants, 24 of which are located in the U.S. Each of the 32 plants has been profitable since inception.
"Sparta will use an exciting new technology to produce insulation in Milledgeville," said Dr. Kenneth Hall, vice president of research and development for Sparta Industries. "The product will be more efficient and less costly while eliminating health and environmental issues."
Rheem Manufacturing previously occupied the facility but closed for business in 2007 during the economic downturn. The building remained vacant until Sparta Industries agreed to purchase the property.
"We've been waiting a long time to get someone back to work in this building," said Development Authority of the City of Milledgeville and Baldwin County Chairman Chat Daniel. "We are optimistic about a great future and partnership with Sparta Industries. This community is ready to assist them as they get up and running."
Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) project manager Wylly Harrison represented the Global Commerce division in partnership with the Development Authority of the City of Milledgeville and Baldwin County, Georgia Power, the Georgia Department of Labor, Georgia Quick Start and GC Financial Solutions, LLC.
"This has been an amazing opportunity to work with a group of brilliant people to bring both jobs and opportunity for a well-deserved area," said Tony and Crystal Gandy of GC Financial Solutions, LLC.
"This is a great win for Milledgeville and Georgia as a whole," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "Sparta Industries is the kind of forward-looking and innovative company that Georgia's business-friendly environment is suited to support. We want to thank our partners at the local level for their diligence throughout this project, and we look forward to Sparta Industries' continued success as operations ramp up."

Source: https://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-05-10/deal-sparta-industries-create-more-1000-jobs-milledgeville
