Public Statements
Deal: Dollar General to Create More Than 500 Jobs
Press Release
By: Nathan Deal
Date: May 9, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Nathan Deal today announced that Dollar General, one of America's leading discount retailers, will build a 1-million-square-foot distribution center in Butts and Spalding Counties. The distribution center will create more than 500 jobs and represents a capital investment of $85 million.
"Dollar General's decision to build a fulfillment center here in Georgia is a direct reflection of the high quality of our workforce and Georgia's strategic location for accessing the Southeastern market," said Deal. "Georgia is perfectly positioned to support this fulfillment center and Dollar General will benefit by building in the No.1 state in which to do business. I am confident that our economic environment and location will bolster growth for Dollar General in Georgia."
The new distribution center is expected to serve more than 1,000 stores in the southeast. Dollar General currently operates more than 650 stores and employs more than 5,000 people in Georgia.
"This state-of-the-art distribution center will help support our rapid store growth throughout Georgia and the southeast," said Todd Vasos, chief executive officer of Dollar General. "I want to thank the leadership in Butts and Spalding counties, as well as Georgia Governor Nathan Deal and the Georgia Department of Economic Development (GDEcD) for their support and assistance on this project. It is exciting to see our business continuing to grow and create new jobs across the country."
The distribution center is slated to operate at full capacity by the fall of 2017. It is expected that an additional 150 temporary jobs will be created during the construction of this project.
"We appreciate the collaboration among everyone who has helped bring Dollar General to Butts and Spalding Counties. We're glad to welcome a wonderful company and look forward to helping them be successful in our community," said Butts County Board of Commissioners Chairman Keith Douglas.
"Due to the substantial number of jobs being created, this project will have a meaningful impact on our area in terms of new employment opportunities," said Griffin-Spalding Development Authority Chairman Chuck Copeland. "The cooperation of our Spalding County leadership and the Butts County Commissioners and their Development Authority, as well as the expertise of GDEcD, have been key elements to the success of this project."
The Logistics, Energy, Agribusiness and Food Team represented the Global Commerce division on behalf of GDEcD in partnership with the Butts County Economic Development team, the Griffin-Spalding Joint Development Authority and Georgia Power.
"Dollar General's decision to locate in Butts and Spalding Counties speaks volumes to the culture of collaboration that exists for business in Georgia," said GDEcD Commissioner Chris Carr. "We would like to congratulate everyone involved in this project, and we look forward to supporting Dollar General in its future growth in Georgia."

Source: https://gov.georgia.gov/press-releases/2016-05-09/deal-dollar-general-create-more-500-jobs
