Public Statements
Issue Position: Economic Development & Job Creation
Issue Position
By: Henry McMaster
Location: Unknown

Henry is running for governor because our state needs executive leadership committed and focused on putting South Carolina back on the Path to Prosperity. In officially announcing his campaign for governor in August 2009, Henry became the first candidate to unveil a detailed economic development plan -- called the Path to Prosperity -- to put South Carolina back to work.
The Path to Prosperity is an energetic and optimistic strategic plan of action that will build on South Carolina's existing assets to launch a new era of prosperity and growth.
The Path to Prosperity
South Carolina is blessed with unique assets: Our talented, hardworking people; our climate and abundant natural resources; our port system and unmatched tourism destinations. These are important building blocks that are needed to launch a new era of prosperity and growth.
Unfortunately, in recent years, we have not achieved our potential. Today, our rate of unemployment is one of the highest in the country. Recent statistics reveal that 53% of our public school children are enrolled in reduced or free lunch programs, which is a standard measure for poverty. And about half of all ninth graders do not graduate high school within four years.
As a result, many of our people are not well-prepared for employment and they earn far less than the residents of most other states. In fact, the per capita income of South Carolina's workforce is about 20% below the national average.
Our antiquated tax structure also damages our potential for economic growth. It has been cobbled together over many decades in a piecemeal fashion with virtually no strategic vision. The technological age demands a tax system which acknowledges that our competitors are global and not merely confined only to neighboring states.
The central problem of our struggling economy is this: we have far too few high paying jobs and our educational system is not preparing young people to compete in the global economy of the 21st century.
As a candidate for governor, I have developed an Economic Development Strategy for South Carolina's future. My number one priority will be to chart a new "Path to Prosperity" for our State.
The governor's highest responsibilities are to vigorously help businesses and industries create jobs; to raise the income levels of our citizens; and to help existing businesses flourish and attract new investment. Businesses are more likely to locate or expand here if they know we want them, will support them and will partner with them to achieve mutual success.
In the 1980's, Governor Carroll Campbell was aggressive in recruiting, nurturing and supporting businesses both large and small. We will do that again. I will carry South Carolina's message of optimism and opportunity to every state in this nation and every developed country in the world. This will be the passion of my administration.
The future belongs not to those who manage scarcity but to those who create abundance. The "Path to Prosperity" this campaign offers is summarized in the Ten Point Plan on this page.
Summary
In recent years, our citizens have lost a great deal of the trust they once had in their leaders. Our economy is struggling. There has been too much dishonesty and too many scandals. Public resources have been mismanaged.
The time has come for a new day and a new way in South Carolina. More than ever, we can be a national leader in growth and job creation. What we need now is leadership with the experience, maturity and judgment to pull us together and ignite our potential.
This strategy is designed to keep our best and brightest right here at home, rather than their looking elsewhere to find the opportunities they deserve. It is also designed to make South Carolina a talent magnet that attracts new businesses and inspires existing businesses to grow and prosper.
Finally, this strategy is designed to ignite that great spirit of optimism, hope and pride which characterizes our people, and to encourage them to step forward, be counted and play a role in the life of their state.
Most of all, this strategy will send forth a powerful message: We want the world to know that South Carolina is filled with friendly, welcoming people with a strong work ethic who are well-prepared to compete in the global economy of the 21st century. Making that message a reality is our challenge, our promise and our best Path to Prosperity.

Source: http://www.henrymcmaster.com/pathtoprosperity/
