Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Awards $28 Million in Community Development Block Grants
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: June 21, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

Today the Baker-Polito Administration awarded 34 Community Development Block Grants, totaling $28 million, to a total of 57 cities and towns across the Commonwealth. The Community Development Block Grant program provides competitive funding that allows municipalities to pursue economic development projects, and support the needs of low- and moderate-income residents.
"Our assistance to municipalities is most effective when it provides flexibility to directly support their established goals," said Governor Charlie Baker. "Community Development Block Grants provide for investment in wide-ranging improvements that will bring long-term, positive impacts in these communities."
This year's Community Development Block Grant awards will allow municipalities across Massachusetts to redevelop housing and local infrastructure, and provide for a variety of social services, including childcare assistance, elder services and domestic violence prevention programs.
"Residents across the Commonwealth will see marked improvements in the livability of their communities through these Community Development Block Grant awards," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "These awards will help further progress at the local level, and allow municipalities to pursue a bright future for their community."
The CDBG awards this year will support numerous efforts to support and improve access to housing and services across the Commonwealth. Funds will provide for housing rehabilitation for almost 300 units, along with infrastructure improvements across communities. Awards will also support improvements to a community center in North Adams, provide youth leadership, family literacy and elder services to families in Montague, facility improvements to West Springfield's Boys and Girls Club, fund a fuel assistance program in Winchendon and Ashby, among many other projects.

Source:
