Public Statements
Lt. Governor Polito Signs 200th Community Compact
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: May 19, 2016
Location: Yarmouth, MA

Today, Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito signed six Community Compact agreements with officials from the Towns of Brewster, Orleans, Provincetown, Sandwich, Truro, and Yarmouth. Brewster marked a milestone as the Commonwealth's 200th Community Compact.
"The Commonwealth is excited to announce these new partnerships with another six communities as we continue to develop robust relationships and work together to strengthen cities and towns across Massachusetts," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "We are thrilled to sign our 200th Compact and hope many other municipalities in the Commonwealth will continue to consider this opportunity."
Community Compacts are one tool the administration is utilizing to strengthen the partnership between cities and towns and the Commonwealth. By entering a Community Compact, a community agrees to implement self-selected best practices. As part of this partnership, the Commonwealth agrees to fulfill a set of commitments and works to provide assistance for a community based on their chosen best practice.
Through these Compacts, Brewster, Orleans, Provincetown, Sandwich, Truro, and Yarmouth will each partner with the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to implement the following best practices:
Brewster (200th Compact to be signed):
Financial Management -- Financial Policies: The Division of Local Services' Technical Assistance Bureau will work with Brewster to develop a set of formal financial policies.
Orleans:
Technology -- Transparency: MassIT's Office of Municipal and School Technology will help Orleans develop a written open government and transparency policy, to assist with creating a central transparency page on the town's website and discuss vendor options with Orleans to deploy an Open Checkbook or Open Budget solution for the town.
Provincetown:
Housing and Economic Development -- Prep for Success: The Urban Land Institute will conduct a multi-disciplinary workshop with economic development experts in June. The Commonwealth will work with them on developing a plan to implement recommendations that may come out of this workshop.
Technology -- Connectivity: MassIT's Office of Municipal and School Technology will provide consulting services to facilitate discussion and identify stakeholders in support of the Town's effort to understand the feasibility of providing high-quality broadband services to residents and visitors.
Regional Cooperation/Shared Services: The Commonwealth will provide a Community Compact grant for Provincetown and Truro to hire a consultant to explore potential opportunities for efficiencies through back office shared service/collaborations in several departments
Sandwich:
Financial Management -- Review Financial Management Structure: The Division of Local Services' Technical Assistance Bureau and MassIT's Office of Municipal and School Technology will work with the Sandwich to undertake a study of efficiency opportunities in financial operations using technology.
Technology -- Citizen Engagement: MassIT's Office of Municipal and School Technology will provide guidance in the identification of technologies and their implementation as well as assistance with identifying best practices for engaging the public and internal staff.
Truro:
Regional Cooperation/Shared Services: The Commonwealth will provide a Community Compact grant for Truro and Provincetown to hire a consultant to explore potential opportunities for efficiencies through back office shared service/collaborations in several departments
Yarmouth:
Technology -- Business Continuity: The Commonwealth will provide Yarmouth with a Community Compact Grant to hire a consultant to conduct an IT Infrastructure Assessment.
The Community Compact links to PDF file is a voluntary, mutual agreement entered into between the Baker-Polito Administration and individual cities and towns of the Commonwealth. In a Community Compact, a community will agree to implement a best practice they select from across a variety of areas. The Compact also articulates the commitments the Commonwealth will make on behalf of all communities, including helping the community attain their chosen best practice. For more information or to apply for a Community Compact go to www.mass.gov/ccc.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2016/lt-governor-polito-signs-200th-community-compact.html
