Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Releases $2.19 Billion Fiscal Year 2017 Capital Budget Plan
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: May 19, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

The Baker-Polito Administration today released the Fiscal Year 2017 (FY17) capital plan, including a $2.19 billion bond cap on General Obligation Bonds. Significant resources in FY17 will be invested in affordable and workforce housing, transportation projects and various grant programs to support municipalities across the state. The plan also attracts substantial federal, local, private and other sources of funding, maximizing the leverage of the Commonwealth's capital resources.
The FY17 capital plan prioritizes projects that maintain and modernize existing assets, and make targeted investments for the future. The process for reviewing and determining which projects were included in this plan was refocused this year to better account for our strategic priorities and maximize coordination across agencies with these three core principles as the foundation.
"The Commonwealth's Capital Plan is an important tool for funding construction and maintaining capital assets, infrastructure and program investments," said Governor Baker. "This capital plan makes substantial investments in maintaining and modernizing our transportation network, preserving thousands of affordable housing units, training an already highly-skilled workforce and supporting programs critical to economic development in cities and towns across Massachusetts."
"This capital plan continues our administration's commitment to being a reliable partner for cities and towns across the Commonwealth," said Lieutenant Governor Polito. "In addition to important capital funding for local issues like Chapter 90 transportation funding, vocational skills grants and cultural facilities grants, the Community Compact Program will build upon a successful first year to continue awarding communities who partner with the state to improve local services, IT infrastructure, and various local projects."
"The capital plan for Fiscal Year 2017 makes many key strategic investments focused on maintaining and modernizing our existing assets and making targeted investments in the future," said Secretary of the Executive Office for Administration and Finance, Kristen Lepore. "We are increasing the bond cap by an affordable $65 million to allow us to continue to meet our long-term capital needs that address deferred maintenance needs of our existing portfolio without putting significant strain on our operating budgets."




























Source:
