Public Statements
Letter to the Honorable Members, Massachusetts Senate and House of Representatives - An Act to Enable the Commonwealth's Administration of the Massachusetts Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
Letter
By: Charlie Baker
Date: April 29, 2016
Location: Unknown

To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives:
I am filing for your consideration a bill entitled "An Act to Enable the Commonwealth's Administration of the Massachusetts Pollutant Discharge Elimination System." This legislation is necessary to enable Massachusetts to receive federal delegation of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ("NPDES"). NPDES is a water quality program mandated by the federal government that includes permitting, compliance and enforcement activities relating to the discharge of pollutants.
The federal government enacted the Clean Water Act in 1972. Under the Clean Water Act, the United States Environmental Protection Administration ("EPA") administers a number of programs to ensure water quality across the United States, including NPDES. States have the option of applying to EPA for authorization to administer the programs themselves, subject to oversight by EPA. Forty-six other states have already received EPA's permission to administer NPDES. It is time for Massachusetts to join them.
Administration of NPDES by the Commonwealth rather than by EPA will significantly improve the permitting process. Under NPDES, EPA issues stormwater permits to over 250 cities and towns across the Commonwealth, and hundreds of additional permits to industrial users and municipal wastewater treatment plants. State control over the permitting process will result in permits being written and issued in a timely fashion to keep pace with changing environmental conditions. Compliance with permits can be very costly for Massachusetts municipalities and businesses; a program administered by Massachusetts would allow for increased flexibility, based on sound science, to meet permit requirements.



Source:
