Public Statements
State House Leaders Issue Statements on Ten Year Anniversary of Universal Health Care in Massachusetts
Statement
By: Charlie Baker
Date: April 12, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker, House Speaker Robert DeLeo and Senate President Stan Rosenberg today issued the following statements in recognition of the ten year anniversary of universal access to health care in Massachusetts:
"Ten years ago, Massachusetts led the country by creating a landmark health care coverage law and today we are pleased that 96.4 percent of the state's population is insured," said Governor Baker. "Through our state-based marketplace, individuals and families have the ability to choose their best coverage options, and while there is still more work to be done to increase accessibility and transparency for consumers, we have taken many steps in the right direction."
"At the time, I think everyone in the legislature knew that bill would be a big deal. But it's amazing to look back at it ten years later and think about how in hindsight our efforts became the model for the country's universal health care law," House Speaker DeLeo said. "In Massachusetts, we often say that we lead the way for the rest of the nation. This bill is proof of that notion."
"Healthcare reform began in Massachusetts ten years ago and has increased access to high quality healthcare for our residents. The evolution of its passage serves as a reminder of how cooperation between political parties can produce meaningful public policy that makes a real difference in the lives of millions of people," said Senate President Stan Rosenberg. "It now serves as the model for our national healthcare law which is bringing people, some for the first time in their lives, access to healthcare across the country. As we move forward our focus now is to bring down costs and produce better outcomes for our residents. "

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2016/leaders-issue-statements-on-ma-health-care-anniversary.html
