Public Statements
Governor Baker Signs Comprehensive Solar Legislation into Law
By: Charlie Baker
Date: April 11, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

Today, Governor Charlie Baker and Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito were joined by a bipartisan group of legislators to sign solar legislation into law to continue the expansion of the Commonwealth's solar industry and establish a long-term framework for sustainable solar development in our state. The bill, An Act Relative to Solar Energy, passed both legislative chambers with overwhelming support and achieves the Baker-Polito Administration's goal of reducing costs to ratepayers while strengthening the state's clean energy economy and progressing towards the greenhouse gas reduction requirements set forth under the Global Warming Solutions Act (GWSA).
"This legislation builds upon the continued success of the Commonwealth's solar industry and ensures a viable, sustainable and affordable solar market at a lower cost to ratepayers," said Governor Charlie Baker. "As our administration continues its balanced approach to diversifying Massachusetts' energy portfolio, solar development will be an integral component of our state's clean energy future and we look forward to collaborating with the legislature on an omnibus energy bill that includes cost-effective, hydropower generation."
"Cities and towns across the Commonwealth continue to realize the economic and environmental benefits of solar development," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "The legislation signed into law will preserve the assistance provided to municipalities seeking to deploy solar energy, while positioning Massachusetts to meet our state's goals under the Global Warming Solutions Act."
"This legislation recognizes the maturity of Massachusetts' vibrant solar industry, and will facilitate long-term growth beyond 1,600 megawatts at a reduced cost to ratepayers," said Energy and Environmental Affairs Secretary Matthew Beaton. "The increase of net-metering cap space for public and private entities, and the lower cost next generation incentive program, will simultaneously allow for further solar development and investment in other renewable technologies in the Commonwealth."
Consistent with the Baker-Polito Administration's energy agenda, the legislation provides immediate relief to the solar industry by raising the public and private net metering caps from 5% of utilities' peak load to 8% and from 4% of utilities' peak load to 7%, respectively. Additionally, the bill allows the Department of Energy Resources (DOER) and the Department of Public Utilities (DPU) to gradually transition the solar industry to a more self-sustaining model. This approach includes robust stakeholder outreach, and will establish the next generation solar incentive program at a reduced cost.

Source:
