Public Statements
Governor Baker Joins Bipartisan Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Feb. 16, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker today joined with a bipartisan group of 17 governors in announcing the Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future -- a joint commitment to take action to promote clean energy, clean transportation choices and a modern electrical grid.
The Accord provides participating governors -- a bipartisan coalition together representing 127 million Americans -- with a platform through which their states will collaborate, learn from one another, and leverage partnerships in energy planning and policymaking.
"The Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future highlights the tremendous opportunities to create a shared clean, affordable and resilient energy future," said Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker. "Massachusetts will continue to lead the way on clean energy, energy efficiency and the adoption of innovative technologies such as energy storage. These efforts, and our legislative proposal to bring additional hydroelectricity and other renewable resources into the region, will ensure we meet our ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets while also creating a stronger economy for the Commonwealth."
"This Accord will allow us to collaborate with like-minded governors to create innovative clean energy policy and ensure a stronger national energy future," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "Joining the Accord reaffirms our commitment to diversifying the Commonwealth's energy portfolio, supporting new energy technologies, and meeting our goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25% below 1990 levels by 2020."
Each governor committed to continue to diversify energy generation and expand clean energy sources, encourage clean transportation options, plan for an energy transition and collaborate to make transformational policy changes. Senior advisors to participating governors will convene shortly to discuss initial steps to pursue their shared priorities and commitments contained in the Accord.
"Through this collaborative, bipartisan platform, we can work together with other clean energy leaders to strengthen our economy, protect public health and natural resources, and increase energy security," said Energy and Environmental Affairs Secretary Matthew Beaton. "This new commitment builds on the Commonwealth's forward-thinking leadership in promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy, and addressing the pressing threat of climate change."
The Baker-Polito Administration has been working to stabilize and reduce the cost of energy for residents and businesses, strengthen the clean energy economy in Massachusetts and help meet greenhouse gas emissions reduction requirements set forth under the Global Warming Solutions Act (GWSA). Through the filing of hydropower and solar legislation, the Administration hopes to diversify Massachusetts' energy portfolio and encourage the development of renewable energy resources.
The Administration's 2016-2018 energy efficiency plan, recently approved by the Department of Public Utilities, sets nation-leading savings levels for both electricity and gas and is estimated to achieve $8 billion in economic, environmental, and energy benefits. The Administration also launched a $10 million Energy Storage Initiative to support the continued growth of renewable power generation and make Massachusetts a national leader in the deployment and effective use of innovative energy technology solutions.
Last month, Governor Baker added $2 million in funding to the state's electric vehicle (EV) rebate program, an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transportation sector by increasing the use of zero emission vehicles in Massachusetts.
A recent update to Massachusetts' Clean Energy and Climate Plan for 2020 concluded that the Commonwealth is well-positioned to meet, or exceed, a greenhouse gas reduction goal of 25% by 2020 through the full implementation of the Baker-Polito Administration's energy policies.
The Administration's commitment to action on climate is also demonstrated by signing the Metro Boston Climate Preparedness Commitment, endorsing the Subnational Global Climate Leadership Memorandum of Understanding (Under2MOU) and joining Eastern-Canadian Premieres and New England Governors in signing a climate change resolution calling for a 35-45% greenhouse gas reduction, below 1990 emission levels, by 2030.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2016/gov-baker-joins-governors-accord-for-new-energy-future.html
