Public Statements
Governor Baker, Mayor Walsh Announce Joint Community Redevelopment Venture in Downtown Boston
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Feb. 9, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

Today as part of the Baker-Polito Administration's "Open for Business" Real Estate Asset Leveraging (REAL) Strategy, Governor Charlie Baker and Boston Mayor Martin J. Walsh announced a joint state and city venture with Veolia North America to explore the strategic redevelopment of the Massachusetts Department of Transportation's (MassDOT) District 6 Headquarters and Veolia facility in downtown Boston. A broad set of goals will be developed for the site with the engagement of community leaders and residents, which could include economic growth and development, job creation and the addition of more open space and affordable, workforce and transit-oriented housing.
"Identifying prospects to redevelop and repurpose underutilized state property to advance economic growth and affordable housing is a valuable avenue to building stronger communities and opportunities for the people of Massachusetts," said Governor Baker. "We look forward to working together with Mayor Walsh, Veolia, the City of Boston and its residents to optimize this land's impact and contribution to the neighborhood and city at large."
"I thank Governor Baker for his willingness to assess the inventory of State-owned land in the City of Boston and identify parcels that, if developed, could help the City achieve its long-term housing and planning goals," said Mayor Walsh. "This announcement today is yet another example of how a strong partnership between the City and State can bring tremendous economic development benefits to the people of Boston. I look forward to continuing this work with the Baker Administration and members of the community in creating a vision for the development of this site."
The Commonwealth and City of Boston continue to partner in the development of state-owned land, adding 1,300 units of housing (1/3 of which are affordable), and nearly 500,000 gross square feet of commercial space over the last five years. An additional 3,500 housing units and 2.5 million gross square feet of commercial space are in the project pipeline, which both the state and city are committed to advancing expedited construction, permitting and coordination. Both are collaborating to develop the next round of projects for the pipeline, that in addition to the MassDOT building, includes the development of a jointly-owned property in Lower Roxbury, MBTA-owned parcels in Jamaica Plain and an under-utilized MBTA parking lot near the Mattapan T stop.

Source:
