Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Opens Seventh MassWorks Infrastructure Award Round
Press Release
By: Karyn Polito Charlie Baker
Date: May 18, 2017
Location: Worchester, MA

Today Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito announced the opening of the seventh annual MassWorks Infrastructure Program award round. The program invests in local community infrastructure that can leverage private funding and unlock commercial, industrial, or residential development.
"Our support for local infrastructure and development priorities is important to the Commonwealth's continued economic success and growth," said Governor Baker. "We were pleased to secure hundreds of millions in new funding for the MassWorks Infrastructure Program, which provides cities and towns the investments and flexibility they need to drive job growth and build stronger communities."
In August 2016, Governor Baker signed An Act Relative to Job Creation and Workforce Development (H.4569) to reauthorize MassWorks and support $500 million of future investment in critical infrastructure, a significant commitment by the Commonwealth. The Baker-Polito Administration has increased MassWorks funding by $35 million over the past two fiscal years, investing $168 million for 82 projects across 69 communities.
"We are proud of the strong partnerships we have built with all 351 of Massachusetts' cities and towns, allowing them to embrace local priorities and strengths," said Lt. Governor Polito. "We look forward to working with them in the upcoming MassWorks round to identify and invest in these important local infrastructure projects."
The 2017 grant round will fund housing and commercial growth opportunities that contribute to the long-term strength and sustainability of Massachusetts, with a particular emphasis on projects that support the production of multi-family housing in appropriately located mixed-use districts and projects that support economic development in weak or distressed areas. In addition, the Program will hold an inaugural grant round during the summer for public dredging projects that support growth opportunities for the Commonwealth's blue economy.
"MassWorks makes strategic investments in public infrastructure, at the local level, that generate private investment in new housing and job creation," said Housing and Economic Development Secretary Jay Ash. "It's a powerful tool for community development, because MassWorks empowers communities to deliver on their own unique local economic development vision, in truly dynamic ways."
The MassWorks Infrastructure Program provides a one-stop shop for municipalities and other eligible public entities seeking funding to support housing, economic development and job creation. In addition, the Program supports municipalities with a population of 7,000 or less that may seek grants for roadway improvements to enhance public safety.
The MassWorks Program encourages municipalities to apply with projects that have been well planned, exhibit prompt and predictable permitting, and have implemented zoning that supports future growth.
The reference materials for the 2017 MassWorks grant round, the electronic application system, application guidelines, FAQs, and other relevant matierals are available online, giving public entities a 12-week head start to gather the information they need in order to submit their applications between Monday, July 24th and Friday, August 4th 2017. Applicants will have access to previous MassWorks grant round submissions. All decisions will be rendered within approximately 8 weeks after the application deadline.
Since its inception in 2011, the MassWorks Program has invested over $418 million through competitive grant rounds, in 215 projects throughout the Commonwealth. The 2016 competitive grant round awarded $85 million to 34 projects in 33 communities.
To learn more about the MassWorks Infrastructure Program and how it is supporting job growth and long-term, sustainable economic development, please visit the MassWorks webpage.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2017/baker-polito-administration-opens-massworks-round.html
