Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Unveils Urban Agenda Grant Winners
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Jan. 13, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

Today, Governor Charlie Baker and Lt. Governor Karyn Polito announced the inaugural round of awards from the Commonwealth's Urban Agenda Grant Program, a new grant program that seeks to unlock community-driven responses to local economic opportunities through partnership-building, problem-solving, and shared accountability. The awards, totaling $3 million in grant funding, will fund 16 economic development, planning, and housing development initiatives, across 13 communities.
"The focus of our urban agenda is community empowerment across the Commonwealth, to meet local needs with locally driven solutions," said Governor Charlie Baker. "The partnerships that have formed in response to this new program will be essential to building leadership, collaboration, and capacity, while creating economic opportunities in the short term, and building a foundation for long-lasting economic development in our urban communities."
"Urban Agenda grants build on our administration's commitment to empowering communities," said Lieutenant Governor Polito. "By supporting community-driven responses to local economic opportunities, this grant program will help transform urban neighborhoods."
"By engaging cities and community-based organizations around local economic assets, urban agenda grants will help communities unlock dynamic growth," said Housing and Economic Development Secretary Jay Ash.
"Multi-family housing development strengthens communities," said Housing and Community Development Undersecretary Chrystal Kornegay. "By funding hard-to-finance soft costs, Urban Agenda Housing Program grants support the revitalization of vacant and underutilized publicly-owned land, and advance our mission to create vibrant communities."
The Commonwealth's Urban Agenda promotes economic vitality and cultivates safer, stronger urban neighborhoods and communities throughout Massachusetts. The Urban Agenda grant program seeks to advance vibrant communities, and unlock economic mobility for residents, through community-based partnerships that address workforce development, entrepreneurship, and mixed-income housing development. The inaugural round of the grant program received 54 applications, requesting a total of $12.7 million in funding, from both Gateway Cities and non-Gateway communities of varying sizes. The grant program made awards to three types of projects: economic development implementation grants, economic development planning grants, and housing grants.
Urban Agenda Economic Development Implementation grants will empower urban communities to advance employment and economic opportunity by providing flexible grant funding that supports creative local partnerships and capitalizes on local economic opportunities. The Urban Agenda Economic Development Implementation grant program challenged urban neighborhoods across Massachusetts to form partnerships that leverage existing economic assets, target specific workforce populations, define their economic development and quality of life goals, and then deliver on those goals.
Urban Agenda Planning and Technical Assistance grants will be used by communities to bring residents and other stakeholders together for a facilitated process to identify opportunities for shared work on quality-of-life issues, and to build coalitions and social capital within the community.
Urban Agenda Housing Program grants will assist municipalities in expanding housing opportunities by supporting pre-development and soft costs related to the construction of multi-family housing, with a particular emphasis on housing opportunities that leverage vacant or under-utilized publicly-owned land.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2016/administration-unveils-urban-agenda-grant-winners.html
