Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Awards $2 Million in Community Compact IT Grants to 47 Cities and Towns
By: Karyn Polito Charlie Baker
Date: May 17, 2017
Location: Braintree, MA

Governor Charlie Baker and Lt. Governor Karyn Polito today awarded $2 million to 47 cities and towns across the Commonwealth impacting 74 municipalities to drive local technological transformation and improvement projects through the Community Compact Information Technology (IT) Grant Program.
Lt. Governor Polito made the announcement after visiting the Braintree Fire Department, where funding from last year's IT grant program has allowed Mobile Data Terminals (MDTs) to be installed in fire vehicles. The Braintree Fire Department recently began testing the MDTs and used the software to identify a hydrant location prior to arriving on the scene of a fire, saving the crew crucial minutes in a dangerous situation.
"The Community Compact Cabinet is instrumental in strengthening our partnerships with cities and towns across the Commonwealth," said Governor Baker. "The cabinet's IT grant program allows the state to support critical investments in technology projects and upgrades for municipalities seeking to streamline and improve their local services."
"The Community Compact Cabinet's three grant programs -- Best Practices, Efficiency and Regionalization, and IT -- are engines for improving local services in all 351 cities and towns across Massachusetts," said Lt. Governor Polito, Chair of the Community Compact Cabinet. "The Community Compact Cabinet is proud to see the Town of Braintree using their grant money to protect first responders and provide a better service to their residents. The FY16 grants enabled communities to pursue important projects like modernizing financial systems, implementing wireless networks, and digitizing records."
This year's Community Compact IT Grant Program awards cities and towns or groups of multiple towns up to $146,000, and the expertise of the Office of Municipal and School Technology within MassIT, to implement and invest in one-time technology infrastructure, software and equipment upgrades.









Source:
