Public Statements
Governor Baker Appoints Nonie Lesaux as Chair of Board of Early Education and Care
Press Release
By: Jim Peyser Charlie Baker
Date: July 13, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker today announced the appointment of Nonie Lesaux, Ph.D., to the Board of Early Education and Care, and designated her as the new Chair.
"I'm pleased to welcome Nonie as chair of the Board of Early Education and Care," said Governor Baker. "With years of experience in the education field, Nonie has risen as a leader for early education and literacy reforms in the Commonwealth and brings a unique skill set to the table that will strengthen programs and enrich education for young children."
"Nonie's expertise in language and literacy development, knowledge of early educator practice, and experience working with policymakers will be a significant asset to the Board of Early Education and Care," said Early Education and Care Commissioner Tom Weber. "I look forward to working with Nonie and the Board in advancing the system of early education and care in the Commonwealth, and supporting strong outcomes for all children."
"It is an honor to serve as the Chair of the Board of Early Education and Care. I look forward to working with the board, Commissioner Tom Weber, and the EEC team to further the mission of providing children with the foundation for healthy development and educational accomplishment," said Chair Lesaux. "I thank the Baker-Polito Administration for this opportunity to support our Commonwealth's children, their families, and all those involved in setting the youngest members of our communities on a path toward lifelong success."
"Nonie's insight and analytical expertise will be an asset to the Board and Commissioner Weber as we strive to improve the quality, affordability, and availability of early education and care in Massachusetts," said Secretary of Education Jim Peyser. "I also thank Jay Gonzalez for his service to the board and appreciate his support of early education in our state."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2016/governor-appoints-nonie-lesaux-as-chair-of-eec-board.html
