Public Statements
Governor Charlie Baker Appoints New State Police Superintendent
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: July 8, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Today, Governor Charlie Baker announced the appointment of Major Richard McKeon to serve as Superintendent and Colonel of the Massachusetts State Police (MSP). A 33-year veteran of the State Police, Major McKeon currently serves as Deputy Division Commander of the Division of Investigative Services. Governor Baker also thanked retiring Superintendent, Colonel Timothy Alben, for his leadership and over three decades of service to the Commonwealth as a member of the Massachusetts State Police.
"Keeping the people of Massachusetts safe is paramount to my administration and I look forward to Major McKeon building upon our State Police force's stellar professionalism and diligence," said Governor Charlie Baker. "Fostering trust between the community and law enforcement is essential to public safety and McKeon will be essential to strengthening those relationships. I thank Colonel Alben for his decades of service to the State Police and the people of the Commonwealth, and look forward to seeing their strong tradition continue under the leadership of Major McKeon as we continue striving to make Massachusetts a safer place to live, work and raise our families."
"Having seen firsthand Major McKeon's work with the Worcester County District Attorney's office, his dedication, integrity and respect for his fellow law enforcement, members of the community and victims of crime will serve the Commonwealth well as Superintendent of the State Police," said Secretary of Public Safety and Security Daniel Bennett. "I also want to thank Colonel Alben for all he has done to advance the mission of the State Police and for his leadership of the men and women that put their lives on the line every day."
Major McKeon's appointment will be effective July 12.
"I would like to thank Governor Baker, Lieutenant Governor Polito, and Secretary Bennett for putting their faith in me to lead this proud organization forward," said Major Richard McKeon. "During my 33 years in the State Police I have been fortunate to receive a great deal of knowledge and guidance from the many professionals within the Department, and I look forward to putting all that I have learned to work on behalf of the public that we serve each day."
About Major Richard McKeon:
Major Richard McKeon joined the Massachusetts State Police in 1982 and is currently the Deputy Division Commander of the Division of Investigative Services where he is responsible for oversight of investigative units, administrative resources and intergovernmental coordination with local, state and federal law enforcement, most notably, throughout the response and investigation of the Boston Marathon bombings. Prior to his promotion in 2011, McKeon served as a Captain and Unit Commander for the State Police Detective Unit assigned to the Worcester County District Attorney's Office in Auburn. Major McKeon graduated from Framingham State College and obtained his Masters in Criminal Justice from Anna Maria College in Paxton, Massachusetts.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2016/governor-baker-appoints-new-state-police-superintendent.html
