Public Statements
Baker Administration Acts to Embrace Transportation Innovation and Strengthen Public Safety
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: April 24, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker has filed legislation to institute a statewide regulatory framework for transportation network companies (TNCs) such as Uber, Lyft and Sidecar. "An Act Establishing Department of Public Utilities (DPU) Oversight of Transportation Network Companies" allows for the embrace of innovation in transportation, outlines strong standards for industry and consumer safety and moves to clarify the confusion and close the potential for gaps in insurance.
"Massachusetts has always been at the forefront of emerging technologies, with this legislation providing a modern regulatory framework to embrace innovation and protect and serve consumers," said Governor Baker. "A diverse transportation network is key to our future economic growth and our collaboration will ensure customers have safe and reliable choices when they travel."
The legislation was developed in consultation with municipal leaders, company representatives and public safety advocates.
"I thank the Baker Administration for taking a step forward in creating regulatory frameworks that incorporate transportation network companies into our existing for-hire transportation ecosystem," said Boston Mayor Martin J. Walsh. "Over the past year, our Taxi Advisory Commission has closely studied the issues around creating diverse options for our consumers while maintaining the highest level of public safety. I look forward to the legislative process and am hopeful that we can move forward with regulations that place the safety of Boston's residents and visitors first."
"This is good government at work, implementing commonsense standards that are in the best interest of both the public and businesses," said Somerville Mayor Joseph A. Curtatone. "Balancing innovation with consumer protection is possible when we take a collaborative approach, and I want to thank Governor Baker for working with us and these new companies to put forth an equitable framework that will allow transportation service innovation to continue safely thriving in Massachusetts."
"Governor Baker's legislation will allow Uber to continue offering Massachusetts safe, reliable transportation options and opportunities to earn a living with greater flexibility," said Meghan Joyce, Uber East Coast General Manager. "This bill would set into law for the entire industry many of the safety standards that have attracted riders and drivers to ride-sharing, including $1 million of insurance on every ride and rigorous, mandatory background checks for all drivers. We thank Governor Baker and his administration for supporting riders and drivers and for promoting innovation in the Commonwealth."

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2015/legislation-introduces-statewide-tnc-regulations.html
