Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Announces LED Conversion Project
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Lynn, MA

Today, in celebration of Earth Day, Governor Charlie Baker was joined by Energy and Environmental Affairs (EEA) Secretary Matthew Beaton at Lynn Heritage State Park to announce a statewide energy efficiency initiative at Department of Conservation and Recreation (DCR) properties. As part of an investment for energy savings, greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions and public safety, the Baker-Polito Administration announced that more than 4,500 street and outdoor lights across the Commonwealth will be converted to energy efficient Light Emitting Diode (LED) lighting and associated fixtures.
"In celebration of Earth Day, I am pleased to announce this collaborative statewide LED program as an illustration of Massachusetts' unrelenting commitment to energy efficiency and conserving the Commonwealth's financial and energy resources," said Governor Charlie Baker. "This program highlights the type of strategic investments necessary to ensure a clean energy and environmental future for generations to come."
The two-phase project is expected to save the Commonwealth more than $500,000 every year. Since LED lights have a lifespan of approximately 15 years, DCR will also save on maintenance costs.
Once completed, the project is projected to save approximately 3 million kilowatt hours (kWh) per year, equivalent to annually providing electricity for 395 homes. It will also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 1,000 metric tons, equal to taking 223 cars off the road each year.
"By converting to LED lighting at DCR facilities across the state, the Baker-Polito Administration has taken a crucial step in ensuring that Massachusetts continues to lead the nation in energy efficiency," said Energy and Environmental Affairs Secretary Matthew Beaton. "This eco-friendly approach to lighting public recreation areas is a fiscally sound decision that benefits both the Commonwealth's residents and our state's natural environment."
DCR is collaborating with the Department of Energy Resource's (DOER) Leading by Example Program to support the conversion. DCR is investing $1 million in capital funding and will leverage $1.2 million in Non-Building Energy Efficiency Investment Program (NEEIP) funds from the Department of Energy Resources. NEEIP provides green bond financing for self-supporting energy projects that will cover the cost of financing through energy cost savings. Phase 1 of the project will also qualify for some $280,000 in Mass Save® incentives from Eversource, National Grid, and Chicopee Electric Light.
"The retrofit of these streetlights to LED will not only improve energy efficiency, it will also improve public safety along DCR's many parkways across the Commonwealth," said DCR Commissioner Jack Murray. "I thank Governor Baker and Secretary Beaton for their commitment to ensuring Massachusetts continues to lead the nation in energy efficiency."
"These high efficiency lighting upgrades are a great illustration of how Massachusetts leads by example in saving energy, while reducing costs and our impact on the environment." said DOER Acting Commissioner Dan Burgess.
"It's good to be with the Governor and the Secretary at Lynn Heritage State Park to celebrate Earth Day and to kick off this statewide LED Initiative which will lead to significant energy savings and improved public safety across the Commonwealth," said State Senator Thomas M. McGee.
"I am pleased that this DCR property within Lynn is taking part in this statewide initiative of converting to LED lights as it helps to make our city more energy efficient while cutting energy costs," said State Representative Robert Fennell. "I applaud Governor Baker and Secretary Beaton on its implementation and look forward to working with the Administration over the next few years on other initiatives that will improve the quality of life for all citizens of the Commonwealth."
Phase I of the project began on March 2, 2015, and includes the retrofit of approximately 2,000 cobrahead and shoebox luminaries from high intensity discharge (HID) lamps to LED lamps. Phase I is expected to be complete by the summer of 2015. Phase II of the project, which will be put out to bid this summer, will retrofit an additional 2,500 fixtures.
DCR has also converted its Geographic Information Systems Program into a complete ArcGIS Online (AGOL) web-map technology of the entire system. This system, located in 43 cities and towns across the Commonwealth, enables DCR staff to track the condition of each light, resulting in additional maintenance savings.
The Leading by Example (LBE) program works with state agencies to meet specific target for greenhouse gas emission reductions, energy consumption reduction and renewable energy procurement. Since 2007, state agencies have made significant progress, including meeting the 25 percent GHG reduction target, generating 15 percent of electricity demand from onsite renewable and combined heat and power energy, and reducing heating oil use by 72 percent. LBE results have been a factor in Massachusetts' four years as the number one state for energy efficiency in the country, as ranked by the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy (ACEEE).

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2015/administration-announces-led-conversion-project.html
