Public Statements
Gov. Baker to Meet with New England Governors April 23 to Discuss Regional Energy Infrastructure Challenges
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: April 20, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Charlie Baker will meet in Hartford, Connecticut April 23 with Governors of other New England states to pursue next steps in regional efforts to develop and implement a cooperative strategy to address energy infrastructure challenges.
The Governors will meet at the Connecticut Convention Center for a private roundtable organized by the Coalition of Northeastern Governors (CONEG).
The Governors will explore common solutions to energy challenges facing the region in an effort to combat the high cost of electricity in New England, the lack of infrastructure to bring natural gas to power plants, growing concerns about reliability, and the transmission challenges of integrating power from renewable energy sources into the grid.
The Governors first outlined a strategy for regional energy cooperation in a joint statement issued in December of 2013.
"Together, the New England governors have a real opportunity to work collaboratively to identify realistic solutions that will strengthen the region's energy network and lower costs for our families and businesses," said Governor Baker. "I look forward to engaging in an open and honest discussion about ways to achieve a balanced approach to strengthen grid reliability and clean energy, while providing cost relief to New England taxpayers."
Prior to the Governor's working session, a "Northeast Regional Energy Forum" for energy stakeholders will take place at the Connecticut Convention Center from 8:15 to 10 a.m.
At the forum, a panel will address regional infrastructure issues and will feature special guests Richard Levitan, president & principal of Levitan & Associates, Inc., and Gordon van Welie, president and chief executive officer, ISO New England Inc. A second panel will feature state energy officials who will discuss state initiatives and regional collaboration that is already underway.
The "Northeast Energy Forum" will be live streamed on the Connecticut Network's (CT-N) website at www.CT-N.com. The public will also be able to follow the forum discussion on Twitter @4neenergy and to also Tweet questions for panelists.
At their roundtable, the Governors will discuss a variety of resources to address the energy challenges facing the region -- including cost-effective investment in new natural gas infrastructure, the continued integration of clean energy resources, aggressive investment in energy efficiency and distributed generation. The Governors will be focused on regional solutions and individual state efforts that can help the region reduce energy costs, reduce carbon pollution, and ensure the economic competitiveness of the New England region.
In their December 2013 energy joint statement, the New England Governors said, "We believe that by working together we can expand economic development, promote job growth, improve the competitiveness of our industries, enhance system reliability, and protect and increase the quality of life for our citizens. Expanding our existing efforts will ensure that we are on a course toward a transformed energy, environment, and economic future for our region that offers a model for the nation."
The following New England Governors are expected to attend the April 23 session: Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Connecticut; Governor Paul R. LePage, Maine; Governor Charlie Baker, Massachusetts; Governor Gina M. Raimondo, Rhode Island; Governor Peter Shumlin, Vermont.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2015/governor-to-meet-with-new-england-governors-april-23-.html
