Public Statements
Governor Baker Approves $200 Million in Chapter 90 Funding for Local Infrastructure
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: April 9, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker has signed House Bill 3187 authorizing $200 million in Chapter 90 transportation funds for municipalities, bringing the total funding available this construction season to $300 million, with an additional $30 million allocated through the same Chapter 90 formula for winter pothole repair and paving projects.
"Our Commonwealth can only be as strong as every city and town, and Lt. Governor Polito and I are pleased to fulfill our commitment to support municipalities and grant access to critical funding for transportation improvements," said Governor Baker. "After a rigorous winter, the timely delivery of these funds is a much-needed resource and welcome opportunity to spur economic growth in every zip code."
The administration released $100 million in Chapter 90 funding on its first day in office, and in March announced $30 million for a Winter Recovery Assistance Program (WRAP) to provide additional resources to cities and towns after an unprecedented winter. Allocated through an existing fiscal 2015 bond authorization from the Massachusetts Department of Transportation (MassDOT), WRAP was distributed through the same formula as Chapter 90.
"As we continue to build strong partnerships with our cities and towns in every corner of the Commonwealth, we are glad to release additional funds to municipalities to assist with local construction projects and boost recovery efforts after an unprecedented winter," said Lt. Governor Polito. "I look forward to proceeding with my statewide tour to visit with local officials to talk about the important issues facing our cities and towns as we work collaboratively toward a stronger state for all families and communities."
Through Chapter 90 bond issuances, cities and towns are reimbursed for eligible transportation projects, submitting qualifying costs to their local MassDOT Highway Division district for review by MassDOT's Fiscal Department. More information about the Chapter 90 Program is available here:

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2015/governor-approves-200-million-in-chapter-90-funds.html
