Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Announces Winter Recovery Assistance Program
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: March 19, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Today, the Baker-Polito Administration launched the Winter Recovery Assistance Program, a $30 million targeted effort to assist cities and towns with repairs to roads and bridges under municipal jurisdiction.
"Since day one, we promised to partner with our cities and towns to provide them with the support needed to keep local infrastructure in reliable shape," said Governor Charlie Baker. "After an unprecedented winter of heavy snowfall and frigid temperatures, this additional support will allow municipalities to patch up potholes and address local repairs as needed."
"This winter's record-setting snowfall has left our cities and towns with a major maintenance deficit that needs to be addressed immediately," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "This program provides municipalities with additional resources to accelerate those repairs and make our roadways safer for everyone."
"While we strive to invest in the maintenance of the state's highway infrastructure, it's important to remember how vital a role our municipal roads and bridges play in the state's economy and to our overall transportation network," said MassDOT Secretary and CEO Stephanie Pollack.
The $30 million has been allocated from the existing fiscal 2015 bond authorization for the Department of Transportation. While the WRAP is a distinct effort separate from the Chapter 90 program, to ensure equity, the funds will be distributed to cities and towns based on the Chapter 90 formula.
The Chapter 90 formula determines the apportionment of funding for municipal roads and bridges based on a weighted average of a city or town's population, employment, and total mileage of roads. The WARP apportionment list details how the $30 million are apportioned to each city or town using the formula.
Under the WRAP, cities and towns can seek reimbursement from MassDOT on expenditures related to patching potholes, pavement cracking, surface defects, paving projects; repair or replacement of damaged signs, guardrail, storm drains, and line striping.
"This program is a signal to cities and towns that we recognize the importance of these roads and bridges, and the urgency with which they need to be repaired," said MassDOT Highway Administrator Thomas J. Tinlin.
In order to accelerate local repairs, the WRAP requires all work on municipal infrastructure to be completed by June 30, 2015, and for all work invoices to be provided to MassDOT by July 31, 2015. MassDOT will reimburse cities and towns as invoices are received.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2015/winter-recovery-assistance-program-announced.html
