Public Statements
Governor Baker Requests $200 Million in Chapter 90 Transportation Funds for Municipalities
By: Charlie Baker
Date: March 13, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker has filed H.D. 3712, "An Act Financing Improvements to Municipal Roads and Bridges," to allocate $200 million in Chapter 90 transportation funds to the Commonwealth's cities and towns for local transportation infrastructure improvements.
"After keeping our promise to release additional transportation funding shortly after taking office, we are proud to continue our commitment to Massachusetts' cities and towns with an additional investment for the upcoming construction season," said Governor Baker. "The access to flexible funding for transportation improvements is essential to our municipalities' ability to provide for reliable infrastructure, public safety, new job opportunities and a growing economy, and I hope the legislature will take swift action to see these investments become a reality."
The Baker-Polito administration released $100 million in budgeted Chapter 90 transportation funds on their first day in office, which with the passage of this legislation, would make $300 million in funding available for the 2015 construction season. Chapter 90 funding is issued by municipality and predetermined by a formula that includes factors such as population, road miles and employment.
"This winter has been especially hard on our cities' and towns' infrastructure, and as we enter another construction season, Governor Baker and I believe in providing dependable support for both short and long-term improvements needed to improve our local transportation networks," said Lt. Governor Karyn Polito. "In addition to the increases to local aid committed in our Fiscal Year 2016 budget, these investments in transportation are a part of our administration's ongoing partnership with local government."
Chapter 90 reimburses cities and towns for costs incurred for eligible transportation projects. Cities and towns must submit receipts to the MassDOT Highway Division district in which they are located which verifies that the expenditures qualify for reimbursement under Chapter 90. The Highway Districts in turn submit these receipts to the Department of Transportation's Fiscal Department which facilitates the reimbursements to cities and towns. Funding for Chapter 90 is accomplished through the issuance of bonds.
More information about the Chapter 90 Program is available here: http://www.mhd.state.ma.us/default.asp?pgid=content/stateaid01a&sid=about

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2015/governor-requests-200m-in-ch-90-transportation-funds.html
