Public Statements
Governor Baker Names Mark Gaunya and Rina Vertes to the Massachusetts Health Connector Board of Directors
By: Charlie Baker
Date: March 12, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker today named two new members to the Massachusetts Health Connector Board of Directors, Mark S. Gaunya, GBA, LIA, co-owner and Chief Information Officer at Borislow Insurance, and Rina Vertes, President of Marjos Business Consulting.
"The Health Connector board is hugely important to the people's ability to access health care options and the experts we appointed today are vital to improving the once troubled system," said Governor Baker. "I believe people are policy and I look forward to working with these health care experts as they lead the exchange."
"Our administration believes these health care professionals with decades of experience will continue the turnaround effort of the Connector," said Lieutenant Governor Polito, "and provide the people of Massachusetts with an efficient, well run exchange."
Gaunya and Vertes will serve as two of Governor Baker's four appointments to the 11-member Health Connector Board. Gaunya will sit in the seat reserved by statute for a member of the broker community and Vertes will take the seat reserved for a health insurance actuary. They will both participate in today's Health Connector Board meeting.
"The broker community plays an important role in the Massachusetts healthcare market -- we are the trusted advisors businesses and consumers rely on for objective advice and counsel on their healthcare needs," Gaunya said. "I am honored Governor Baker asked me to serve on the Massachusetts Health Connector Board of Directors. This is a busy and important time in healthcare reform, and I am excited to be participating in the challenging work going forward."
"Thank you to Governor Baker for this opportunity to participate in Massachusetts' continued efforts to make health care accessible and affordable to everyone," said Vertes. "I look forward to being part of the next steps the Health Connector and Commonwealth take to ensure Massachusetts remains a leader in health care."

Source:
