Public Statements
Governor Baker Signs Executive Order to Bolster Diversity in State Government
Press Release
By: Karyn Polito Charlie Baker Linda Forry
Date: Feb. 18, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Today at the State House with members of the Black and Latino Legislative Caucus, advocates for minorities, women, veterans and those with disabilities, Governor Charlie Baker signed an Executive Order reinforcing the administration's priority to coordinate and increase diversity and inclusion within state government. The Executive Order elevates the Office of Access and Opportunity (OAO) directly to the Governor's Office, and creates a position of Deputy Chief of Staff for Access and Opportunity to lead the office. Previously, the work of OAO had been housed within the Executive Office of Administration and Finance. The Executive Order also establishes a cross-government Steering Committee for Access and Opportunity of key administration leaders.
"Despite a growing economy across the Commonwealth, it's clear not all communities are seeing the same degree of benefits and new opportunities," said Governor Baker. "We have room to improve employment and procurement practices that promote diversity and are more inclusive of minorities, women, veterans and individuals with disabilities when doing business with the Commonwealth. Our goal is to help this initiative make more progress by working directly with the Governor's Office."
"Small businesses are the backbone of Massachusetts local economies and with the development of the Office of Access and Opportunity in the Governor's Office, we can further include those owned by our veterans, women, minorities and communities with disabilities," said Lt. Governor Polito. "Increasing diversity in our workforce and contracting serves to increase opportunity for every corner and community of Massachusetts."
The Deputy Chief of Staff for Access and Opportunity will serve as a liaison across related offices, commissions and task forces and focus on maximizing existing resources and offices to increase the employment and involvement of those within the minority, women, disability and veterans communities in state government, while also pursuing new policy goals to increase the equity of minority, women, disabled and veteran-owned small businesses in procurement and provisions of state resources.
"Governor Charlie Baker's actions in elevating the Office of Access and Opportunity speak to the emphasis his administration will place on diversity and inclusion," said Senator Linda Dorcena-Forry. "This Executive Order builds on the work of Governor Deval Patrick and exemplifies the importance of furthering equality within state government. I congratulate and look forward to working with Governor Baker to ensure all of the Commonwealth's residents have full access to economic opportunity."
The Deputy Chief for Access and Opportunity will partner with key outside stakeholders and those within state government, including the Human Resources Division, Office of Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Supplier Diversity Office, Office on Disability, Higher Education and Labor and Workforce Development to create best practices and a results orientation with regular reports on key performance metrics.
"Massachusetts leads the nation in providing benefits and resources to veterans and their families," said Secretary of Veterans' Services Francisco Ureña. "There is no greater resource we can offer our veterans than a stable job and Governor Baker and Lt. Governor Polito have made it clear that greater employment opportunities for veterans will be a top priority. Elevating the Office of Access and Opportunity will give veteran owned and service disabled veteran owned businesses a stronger voice and a chance to flourish; creating hundreds of jobs for our veterans in the process."
"I applaud the high priority the Baker-Polito administration is giving to increased employment opportunity for all within state government," said Bill Henning, Executive Director for the Boston Center for Independent Living, an advocacy organization which provides services for people with disabilities. "Jobs are a key ticket to independence and self-sufficiency for people with disabilities."
The overall mission of the Deputy Chief for Access and Opportunity will be to foster non-discrimination and equal opportunity irrespective of race, color, age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity or express, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, disability, veteran's status or socio-economic background.
The Office of Access and Opportunity was first created by Executive Order 519 in January 2010 and was further modified by Executive Order 527 in February of 2011.
Elected Officials:
Rep. Russell Holmes Mattapan
Sen. Linda Dorcena Forry South Boston/Mattapan
Rep. Marcos Devers Lawrence
Rep. Carlos Gonzalez Springfield
Rep. Aaron Vega Holyoke
Rep. Byron Rushing South End, Boston
Boston City Councilor Ayanna Pressley At-large Boston City Councilor

Also Attending:
Juan Cofield New England Area Conference NAACP
Reggie Nunnally Executive Director, Massachusetts Supplier Diversity Office
Ron Marlow Undersecretary, Office of Labor and Workforce
Andre Porter Executive Director, Entrepreneurism
Horace Small Union of Minority Neighborhoods
Bill Henning Executive Director, Boston Center for Independent Living
Francisco Ureña Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Andrea Laing Director of Compliance, DCAMM
Stephanie Neal-Johnson Undersecretary, Office of Labor and Workforce
Howard Rye Institute Fellows

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/executive-order-to-bolster-diversity-signed.html
