Public Statements
Baker-Polito Statement on the Retirement of Appeals Court Chief Justice Phillip Rapoza
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker Karyn Polito
Date: Feb. 12, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker and Lt. Governor Karyn Polito released the following statement on Chief Justice Phillip Rapoza's announcement he will retire from the Massachusetts Appeals Court on June 30, 2015:
"Chief Justice Rapoza has served the judicial system honorably throughout his legal career, advancing the integrity of the courts in Massachusetts and on the international stage for over two decades," said Governor Charlie Baker. "As a trial judge, an appellate jurist and as Chief, he has brought compassion, wisdom and leadership to his decisions and those parties who have appeared before his court. We wish him well in his retirement and thank him for his service to the people of Massachusetts."
"We applaud Chief Justice Rapoza's outstanding work as a jurist and leader in our Courts, but also the work he has done on behalf of the UN-backed war crimes tribunals in East Timor and Cambodia," said Lt. Governor Karyn Polito. "His leadership on the bench will be missed."
Chief Justice Rapoza's letter to Governor Baker can be found here .
Chief Justice Rapoza was first appointed to the bench in 1992 by Governor Weld and has served as a trial judge on the Fall River District Court and the Massachusetts Superior Court. In 1998, Rapoza was appointed to the Massachusetts Appeals Court and in 2006 was named Chief Justice of the Court.
As announced Friday, the administration has established a statewide 21-member Judicial Nominating Commission (JNC) and is soliciting applications for members to screen applicants for judicial and clerk-magistrate positions. Judicial Nominating Commissioners once in place will work to make a timely recommendation to the Governor for appointments to the Appeals Court and any other vacancies as they develop.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/retirement-of-appeals-court-chief-justice-p-rapoza.html
