Public Statements
Governor Baker Announces State Offices Open Tomorrow
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker Karyn Polito
Date: Feb. 10, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker today announced that all state offices will be open for business tomorrow.
"Tomorrow, all state offices will be open across the Commonwealth and we look forward to getting people back to work and school after another challenging storm," said Governor Baker. "Lt. Governor Polito and I encourage everyone to remain patient and be careful during the morning commute, and to check the MBTA schedule for commuter updates. There is still much snow removal to be done, and while we are pleased to have the support of the Massachusetts National Guard and additional equipment from neighboring states, we ask the public to continue doing your part to dig out in your communities. Please take time to clear sidewalks, driveways, fire hydrants and home heating vents and assist the elderly or those in need of assistance. Three storms in two weeks have dropped an unprecedented amount of snow on the Commonwealth, and we appreciate the tireless efforts of road crews and emergency personnel who are working around the clock to assist our cities and towns."
"Cities and towns across the Commonwealth have been hit by record snow amounts this winter, and while cleanup efforts continue we ask everyone to be safe and help out in their communities," said Lt. Governor Polito. "Tomorrow, all state offices will be open and we ask the people of Massachusetts to allow plenty of time for commuting, whether you take the T or drive, and to be cautious on the roadways. It is important to pitch in around your neighborhoods and communities, especially helping those in need of assistance with snow removal efforts. We are grateful for the incredible efforts of the Mass DOT and local road crews who have worked nonstop in their areas."
Earlier today, Governor Baker announced the deployment of 500 Massachusetts National Guardsmen to assist with snow removal and help clear critical assets such as fire hydrants and access to public buildings. The administration also authorized a contract for two snow-melters that are able to process about 120 tons of snow per hour, or about 25 truckloads of snow every hour. The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) will coordinate these resources to the communities with the greatest public safety need. The state of emergency remains in place to ensure state resources are readily available to allow quick response efforts for cities and towns across the Commonwealth.
The following updates have been announced by the Baker Administration:
Deployment of the Massachusetts National Guard -- Tuesday, February 10th, 2015: The Massachusetts National Guard will deploy 500 Guardsmen to assist with snow removal and cleanup efforts for critical assets in select cities and towns. 200 Guardsmen will deploy in 50 teams of 4 men and women per Humvee to assist cities and towns to dig out fire hydrants and other critical assets. The remainder of the Guardsmen will operate heavy machinery to remove snow.
Request for Mutual Assistance -- Tuesday, February 10th, 2015: Through MEMA, the Commonwealth has authorized the purchase of two additional snow-melting machines and requested 200 additional pieces of heavy equipment from neighboring states (front end loaders, dump trucks, bobcats, backhoes) for mutual assistance.
State of Emergency: Governor Baker has signed a Declaration of Emergency for Massachusetts ensuring state resources are available and coordinated for storm preparation and to enable swift response among the state, cities and towns. The state of emergency declaration will allow expedited use of state resources, the ability to request and receive mutual aid assistance from other states or the federal government if needed, the immediate procurement and deployment of goods and services necessary for response and other actions as considered necessary by the Governor. The state of emergency shall remain in effect until notice is given in the Governor's judgment that it is no longer necessary.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/governor-baker-announces-state-offices-open-tomorrow.html
