Public Statements
Governor Baker Announces Closures for State Offices On Monday 2/9
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Feb. 8, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

At a State House press conference this evening, Governor Charlie Baker announced that state offices will be closed and all non-emergency state employees should stay home due to the upcoming snowstorm set to begin tonight in most parts of the Commonwealth. This storm is forecasted to add to the cumulative snowfall amounts already posing challenges for cities and towns. Tomorrow, all businesses are encouraged to allow employees to work from home or stay home if possible to ensure their safety and allow for efficient road cleanups and use of reduced MBTA capacity. The MBTA plans to operate on Monday, but will provide a limited level of service with possible delays and many parking bans are in effect in the Boston area and eastern Massachusetts. MassPort is planning limited flights tomorrow, and travelers are encouraged to check with their airlines before arriving at Logan International Airport.
"This storm marks our third major snow storm we have experienced in nearly two weeks and the cumulative effects of the total snowfall is forecasted to cause many challenges for the Commonwealth," said Governor Baker. "After discussing the forecast with the National Weather Service, Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency and emergency personnel, we will close state office for non-emergency personnel, encourage all businesses to allow employees to work from home or stay home and ask everyone to stay home and off the roads during the storm if possible. The MBTA plans to operate but will run schedules on a lighter service level for the T. Please stay informed, respect parking bans, help your neighbors shovel sidewalks, driveways, nearby fire hydrants, and be safe as road crews work on snow cleanup."
"During this storm, we encourage everyone to pay close attention to alerts from your cities and towns and be very cautious throughout the day tomorrow," said Lt. Governor Polito. "Please be patient and allow snow plows and cleanup crews to do their jobs, and take a few minutes to dig out your own areas, especially for elderly neighbors or those needing assistance. We will continue to watch the storm and keep you informed."
The people of Massachusetts are encouraged to visit www.mass.gov/mema for updates. General questions can be directed to the 24-hour citizen information telephone line by dialing 2-1-1.
The following initiatives were announced at this evening's press conference:
State Offices Closed (Monday, February 9th): Governor Baker has directed that non-emergency state employees working in Executive Branch agencies should not report to their workplace on Monday, February 9, 2015 due to weather conditions. State offices are scheduled to be open on Tuesday, February 10, 2015. Employees should continue to check Mass.gov or call 2-1-1 for additional updates and cold weather safety tips.
MBTA (Monday, February 9th): The MBTA plans to operate tomorrow, but at a lighter service level to provide access for riders that must travel while preserving vehicles and assets to quickly return to regular service after the storm ends. Passengers that must travel tomorrow are urged to plan ahead, be patient, and check mbta.com/winter for updates.
MassPort (Monday, February 9th): MassPort plans to operate tomorrow, but the number of flights will be limited. Travelers are encouraged to check with their airlines before arriving at Logan International Airport.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/gov-announces-closures-for-state-offices-on-mon-2-9.html
