Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Names Stephanie Pollack Secretary of Transportation
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Jan. 13, 2015
Location: Boston, MA

Today, Governor Charlie Baker named Stephanie Pollack as Secretary of Transportation. A well-respected expert on transportation policy and transit financing, Pollack has spent the last nine years as an Associate Director for Research at Northeastern University's Kitty and Michael Dukakis Center for Urban and Regional Policy and currently serves as a senior strategy consultant for public policy in both the private and non-profit sectors.
"Massachusetts' intricate transportation network is a lifeline not only for private sector job creation and economic growth but also to our families who depend on a safe and reliable way to get to work and school," said Governor Charlie Baker. "Stephanie's vast experience in infrastructure and policy development will help our administration to be forward-thinking as we look for more innovative ways to meet the transportation needs in every region of the Commonwealth."
"Under Governor Baker's leadership, Massachusetts has a unique opportunity to demonstrate how transportation investments can be used to help create jobs and prosperous communities, improve people's quality of life and connect people throughout Massachusetts to opportunity," said Stephanie Pollack. "I look forward to serving in the Administration and finding better ways to meet our transportation needs, serve our customers, spur our economy and reduce our carbon footprint."
About Stephanie Pollack:
Stephanie Pollack has worked on transportation policy, finance and equity as Associate Director for Research at the Kitty and Michael Dukakis Center for Urban and Regional Policy at Northeastern University since 2005, where she has also served as an adjunct professor sharing her skills and experience with the next generation of public policy leaders. Stephanie has also provided over a decade of strategic consulting on transportation issues to the public and private sectors including the Boston Transportation Department and Massachusetts Port Authority, following a distinguished career at the Conservation Law Foundation in Boston. She has been active in public policy issues affecting transportation, development and sustainability nationally and locally, serving on numerous boards and advisory bodies including MassDOT's Transportation Advisory Committee and chairing the Transportation Advisory Committee in her hometown of Newton.

Source:
