Public Statements
Western MA Democrats Endorse Charlie Baker
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Oct. 23, 2014
Location: Brighton, MA

Several prominent elected officials including Democrats and independents formally endorsed Charlie Baker at campaign stops in the cities of West Springfield and Springfield today. The endorsements come hours before Springfield's WWLP televised debate tonight. Both former local officials themselves, Charlie and Karyn Polito have been endorsed by several local officials including Quincy Mayor Tom Koch and former North Adams Mayor John Barrett.
"I am excited to have so many dedicated public servants and community leaders cross the aisle and support my positive campaign to make Massachusetts great," said Charlie Baker. "Democrats, independents, and Republicans all agree we need balance and real leadership on Beacon Hill, not more tax increases and wasteful spending. This campaign has been all about the people of Massachusetts and I am humbled to have some of Springfield's and West Springfield's most dedicated community leaders on our team."
West Springfield Mayor Ed Sullivan:
"Charlie Baker has the energy, passion, and ability to help West Springfield and move Massachusetts to a better place to live, work, and play. Charlie has the experience, vision and management skills to lead the Commonwealth to an economically strong and competitive future. Charlie understands the challenges and opportunities that we are presented with and his leadership will provide us with decisions based on merit."
West Springfield At-Large City Councilor Brian Clune:
"The choice voters make in November is an important one for our community and our region, a choice that is bigger than political parties. Charlie has the right combination of real world experience, proven leadership in managing state government and a deep understanding of what West Springfield and Western Massachusetts is all about. His dedication to helping cities like West Springfield is what we need and why I am wholeheartedly endorsing Charlie."

Source:
