Public Statements
Charlie Releases Urban Agenda, Policies To Promote Economic Independence, Stronger Communities In MA Cities
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Oct. 15, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Charlie joined several community leaders to discuss his Urban Agenda, a series of proposals to improve education, promote economic development, address affordable housing and improve public safety in Massachusetts cities. With the help of community leaders from cities across the commonwealth, Charlie developed these proposals over the course of the campaign to address the needs of families and job creators struggling to get ahead.
"Massachusetts cities, especially our gateway cities, have been unable to realize their full potential because of a lack of focused vision from one-party rule on Beacon Hill," said Baker. "Our cities deserve a bipartisan state government that will guarantee every child access to a high quality education, every resident a safe neighborhood to call home, and a commitment to developing our urban centers to create good jobs."
Joining Charlie to discuss the Urban Agenda:
Former State Senator Bill Owens (D)
Ruth Rollins, founder of LIPSTICK
Richard Taylor, Suffolk University Executive in Residence
Nam Pham, Executive Director Of VietAid
Former US District Court Judge Joyce Alexander Ford
Charlie's Urban Agenda:
Education:
Replicate what works in successful schools (including charter schools) to improve underperforming schools -- your zip code should not determine the quality of your education.
Lift the cap on charter schools, especially in struggling districts, so every child has access to a great education.
Unleash the power of career and technical schools and explore the possibility of their granting associate degrees and training for careers not jobs. Revamp our urban career and vocational schools.
Make a college education more affordable for Massachusetts residents and better connect schools with businesses and employers so graduates are prepared to succeed in the workforce.
Hire more teachers of color throughout the Commonwealth.
Economic Development:
Recognizing that unemployment in urban communities is twice the rate of others in the commonwealth, pay special attention to job creation in under-served communities.
Support a minimum wage increase in combination with increasing the state's Earned Income Tax Credit to help low-income workers.
The state should partner with cities and regions to develop unique economic development strategies and then work together to achieve those goals.
Support small businesses with tax credits and reforms to burdensome regulations.
Make sure minority business enterprise companies have access to the bidding process for public projects and have the tools needed to achieve success in their market. Continue to support programs like the Small Business Technical Assistance Program, which helps grow small businesses owned by women, people of color, immigrants and low-income people.
Expand innovation districts across the Commonwealth (like the model in Dudley Square) to encourage entrepreneurship and job creation within Gateway Cities
Navigating the regulatory and financial challenges of running a successful small business can be overwhelming. The state should encourage public-private partnerships in urban neighborhoods to provide in-person business assistance to small businesses, both new and established.
Affordable Housing:
Housing that's affordable for working families and young people is an important component of thriving communities. The state can lead by example by pursuing the use of currently unused state-owned land near transit as an opportunity to develop market-rate housing.
Grow our economy in all parts of the state, so there are good jobs, thriving communities and quality infrastructure everywhere.
Promote home ownership across the commonwealth, find ways to transform affordable housing to affordable home ownership.
Incarceration:
Appoint a commissioner of the Department of Corrections and a Parole Board chairperson who share the goal of preparing the incarcerated to return to our communities with an education, job training and marketable employment skills. Focus less on building new prisons and focus more on reducing recidivism and family reunification.
Provide comprehensive re-entry programs, including job training and connections with employers willing to hire, perhaps through On the Job Training programs.
Consider alternatives to incarceration (including treatment) for non-violent drug offenses, and pursue innovative substance abuse treatment programs, so those released from prison have a better chance at turning their lives around and not returning to prison.
Work with non-profit and state agencies to keep families unified while in prison or treatment
Public Safety/Youth Violence:
Promote relationships with public safety. Interactions should occur well before emergencies in our state. The public should be familiar with those protecting them and public safety should be a reflection of the community it serves, with more officers of color across the state.
Support common-sense gun control that keeps guns out of the hands of criminals and punishes offenders.
Enlist those who have been successful in changing the lives of youth across the commonwealth to be part of the planning and public safety process.
Develop real and tangible options for high school youth outside of summer jobs (career visioning, educational resources, year-round work options).
Allow public safety in our state to be proactive instead of reactive.

Source: https://www.charliebaker2014.com/urbanagenda
