Public Statements
Memo to Patrick: Record Job Losses and Fiscal 2012 Deficit
Statement
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Oct. 25, 2010
Location: Boston, MA

Since Governor Patrick appears more interested in talking about memos today than the issues facing Massachusetts for the next four years, Charlie Baker today is raising several vital issues facing Massachusetts through the below memo to Governor Patrick.
October 25, 2010
MEMO TO: Governor Deval Patrick
FROM: Charlie Baker
RE: Record Job Losses and Fiscal 2012 Deficit
Twelve years ago at the end of my time as Secretary of Administration and Finance for Governor Cellucci, I warned the governor about overspending within the state's road and bridge program, noting that too much spending by the Transportation Department led to a deficit in the capital spending program. I imagine that you've recently received memos from your advisors, if they're being responsible, about the $2.5 -- $3.5 deficit you've created (dollar figures according the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation) and the massive setback on jobs--two straight months of job losses including the largest September job loss of all 50 states on a per capita basis.
But apparently you've ignored these warnings. You're now essentially denying the existence of a budget deficit and claiming that a loss of 21,000 jobs in September is evidence that the state is doing better. You told the public last week you will reveal what you believe the budget deficit to be in December, after the election. As governor, it is incumbent upon you to answer questions about the budget deficit and how you plan to deal with it, as well as questions about the past two months of job losses, including last month's record loss of nearly 21,000 Massachusetts jobs. Since you seem unwilling to do so, I will make my concerns public today.
The next governor must have the courage to immediately fix the deficit for next year, as well as a growing problem for the current fiscal year. Up until now, you have taken the cowardly approach of raising taxes and relying on one-time spending sources that are nearly gone such as stimulus funds and raiding the rainy day fund, instead of reforming state government and cutting spending. Just three months into the current fiscal year, taxpayers are already exposed to nearly $500 million in shortfalls, and you just signed an $11 million pay raise for state employees. You are making things worse, not better.
Wasteful spending on projects like $4.6 million for a horse bridge in Randolph and the $2 billion South Coast Rail project are further exacerbating the problem.
So Governor, three simple questions:
1) Will you tell us today what your plan is to eliminate the $2.5 -- $3.5 billion deficit? Anybody who has been governor for four years should be able to do so, given that we're only 90 days away from the time the budget is filed.
2) Will you terminate the South Coast Rail project, which will cost us $2 billion, if not more?
3) Will you acknowledge that we have headed in the wrong direction for two straight months on jobs, and that we trailed the rest of the country on jobs in September?
If you won't answer those questions, the voters will have all the confirmation they need that you plan to raise taxes yet again--after the election that is.

Source: http://www.charliebaker2010.com/integratedblogsite/c=pressreleases/?p=2452/
