Public Statements
Baker: Union Actions Put Own Interests Above Students
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Oct. 12, 2010
Location: Bridgewater, MA

Teachers' unions in Bridgewater, Raynham blocking library from opening
With teachers' unions here attempting to block volunteers from keeping the school library open, Charlie Baker on Tuesday said the situation here is emblematic of how unions and special interests have too much power across the state and on Beacon Hill.
The teachers' union in Bridgewater and Raynham is locked in a battle with the school officials and parent advocates who are trying to find a way to keep the library open after budget cuts, despite recent local property tax overrides and $1 million in federal stimulus money to the schools. Today, there are 3,200 fewer teachers in Massachusetts than when Deval Patrick took office and parents across the Commonwealth have been struggling with higher sports and bus fees and more crowded classrooms for the past four years.
"This is the mentality union bosses have been able to get away with under Governor Patrick," said Baker. "It is outrageous that the unions would put their own interests above what is right for the students."
The Massachusetts Teachers' Association has been helping to fund attack ads against Baker, trying to distort his record and attacking him for pledging not to raise taxes if elected. The ads, being run by a shell group known as Bay State Future, has spent more than $3 million thus far on those negative ads.
The teachers' union, on behalf of Governor Patrick, has also issued several direct mail pieces falsely claiming Charlie Baker would cut $2 billion from education as governor.
"The teachers' unions have been attacking me for weeks because they know that if I'm elected, business as usual will end on Beacon Hill," said Baker. "Their preposterous attacks are symbolic of the politics-as-usual that Governor Patrick has allowed to fester on Beacon Hill."

Source: http://www.charliebaker2010.com/integratedblogsite/c=pressreleases/?p=2370/
