Public Statements
Baker Outlines Plans to Reform Welfare System
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Oct. 11, 2010
Location: Bridgewater, MA

Plan would align state with federal standards, save MA millions
Charlie Baker on Monday announced his proposal for Massachusetts to strengthen its work requirements for welfare recipients that will help more families move from welfare to the workforce. In addition, the plan would move Massachusetts in line with 46 other states in placing a 5-year lifetime limit on collecting welfare.
Baker's plan would also ensure welfare recipients are using Electronic Benefit Transactions (EBT) cards to purchase things such as groceries and clothing, and not products like tobacco, alcohol, Lottery tickets, and put new procedures in place to ensure illegal immigrants are not accessing benefits.
The number of people in Massachusetts receiving welfare benefits has grown during the past four years by roughly 11 percent, and Massachusetts now has the largest proportion of welfare recipients supported by separate state taxpayer dollars in the country. The cost of those overly-generous benefits to taxpayers in Massachusetts is $120 million annually.
"The abuse of taxpayer dollars for some of these benefits is outrageous," said Baker. "Under Governor Patrick, Massachusetts has gotten away from helping people move from welfare to work and taxpayers are paying for it. In a Baker Administration, we will protect the taxpayers by helping people find jobs who have for too long been reliant on state assistance."
Massachusetts led the way in 1995 with landmark welfare reform, aligning work requirements to move people towards self sufficiency. Between 1995 and 2006, welfare cases declined by 57 percent.
Massachusetts has since failed to keep up with federal standards and today has more lenient work and time limit requirements than the federal government and many other states, meaning state taxpayers have to kick in funding for those recipients who are not covered by the federal requirements. Currently, Massachusetts exempts more welfare recipients from work than nearly any other state -- excusing 77 percent of recipients from having to work, compared to 48 percent nationally.
Also included in Baker's plan:
* No work requirement for single-parent families if the youngest child is less than one year old;
* If the youngest child is between the ages of 1 and 5, single parents must work 20 hours a week and two-parent families must work 30 hours a week;
* If the youngest child is age 6 or older, single parents must work 30 hours a week and two-parent families must work 55 hours a week;
* Require annual face-to-face eligibility status checks to prevent illegal immigrants from taking advantage of taxpayer benefits.

Source: http://www.charliebaker2010.com/integratedblogsite/c=pressreleases/?p=2364/
