Public Statements
Patrick Misleads WTKK Caller on Progressive Tax Comments
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Oct. 7, 2010
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Patrick claims he was asked a question that never happened
Trying to embark on damage control for fallout from comments he has consistently made in support of moving Massachusetts to a progressive income tax system, Governor Patrick on Thursday claimed he was answering a question that never actually occurred.
Speaking today with WTKK's Jim Braude and Margery Eagan, Governor Patrick said he mentioned his support for moving to a progressive income tax because he was simply answering a question about his opinion on the progressive tax.
Governor Patrick said: "At a North Shore Chamber of Commerce gathering yesterday, I was asked a question from the floor "How do I feel about a progressive income tax?' And I think a progressive income tax is fairer than the flat tax we have, which is what I said."
But in reality, Governor Patrick was asked by a member of the audience when taxpayers could expect their taxes to stop going up, but the question made no mention of the progressive income tax. The governor out of the blue offered up his support for the progressive income tax by saying: "Personally, I'd like to see a progressive income tax and not a flat income tax. But that's a multi-year campaign. That is a broad public discussion. That's where I'd like to see us go."
And yesterday wasn't the first time Governor Patrick spoke out in favor of moving to a progressive income tax; he has said previously that he thought there would be an "appetite" for such a move during his second term, should he be re-elected.
"Governor Patrick just cannot be trusted when it comes to taxes," said Charlie Baker. "Four years ago he told voters he had "no plans' to raise taxes, but he raised them eight times by $1 billion. Today he uses the same empty rhetoric and adds that he'd like to move to a progressive income tax. It's pretty clear that the governor can't be trusted on this."

Source: http://www.charliebaker2010.com/integratedblogsite/c=pressreleases/?p=2344/
