Public Statements
Patrick Outlines Major Overhaul of Tax System With Second Term
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Oct. 6, 2010
Location: Boston, MA

Governor admits he would like to see a progressive income tax system if re-elected
Governor Patrick on Wednesday outlined an overhaul of the state's tax system that could come with his second term, pushing for Massachusetts to move to a progressive income tax system and raising questions one month before the election about the governor's plans to raise taxes again if he's re-elected.
Speaking to the North Shore Chamber of Commerce, Governor Patrick responded to a question on whether there is an end in sight to the tax increases by saying, "Personally, I'd like to see a progressive income tax and not a flat income tax," adding that such a change would require a "multi-year campaign."
"That's where I'd like to see us go," Patrick said.
On the heels of eight tax increases and a growing $2.5 billion budget deficit for next year, Governor Patrick consistently refuses to rule out raising taxes if he is re-elected, and last year Patrick told WGBH's Emily Rooney that he believes there would be an appetite for a progressive income tax during his second term.
Baker said that after $1 billion in tax hikes, Governor Patrick should explain to the voters who will see their taxes go up under his plan.
"I'd like to know who Governor Patrick plans to raise taxes on next," said Baker. "He's already begun his next campaign to raise taxes in Massachusetts and the voters should know who's going to be hit with his next tax hike. Governor Patrick needs to understand that after 100,000 lost jobs, eight tax increases and $3 billion in excess spending, voters have had enough of his tax-and-spend policies."
On top of the eight tax increases he helped push through during his first term, Governor Patrick proposed an additional five tax hikes, including a 19-cent increase in the gas tax.
The last time voters were asked their preference to move to a progressive income tax was in 1994, when the ballot question was overwhelmingly defeated 70% -- 30%.

Source: http://www.charliebaker2010.com/integratedblogsite/c=pressreleases/?p=2338/
