Public Statements
Baker Fires Back at Patrick for Attacking Tax Pledge
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Oct. 5, 2010
Location: Wakefield, MA

Barbara Anderson joins Baker to condemn attacks
Charlie Baker on Tuesday slammed Governor Patrick and his allies for absurdly attacking Baker's pledge not to raise taxes by falsely claiming it would send jobs overseas. Baker said the governor has lost all credibility when it comes to fiscal issues after eight tax increases and a budget deficit reaching $3 billion.
Governor Patrick's union and special interest allies have been running ads -- funded by the Massachusetts Teachers Association, SEIU 1199 and the Democratic Governors Association -- for the past week distorting Baker's record and misleading voters about what a pledge not to raise taxes stands for. Special interest groups have been running similar ads against candidates across the country and have been called out for being erroneous by the non-partisan organization factcheck.org. And just yesterday, Patrick again tried to fool voters into thinking he would consider tax cuts under certain circumstances if he's re-elected.
"After $2 billion worth of tax and fee increases, Governor Patrick refuses to rule out future tax increases and his special interest allies are running attack ads against me for pledging not to raise taxes," said Baker. "It's amazing that with the governor's record from the past four years that he thinks he has any credibility left when it comes to the state's fiscal issues."
Baker is the only candidate in the race who has taken the pledge not to raise taxes and has put forward plans to cut taxes, including the elimination of Patrick's 25% sales tax increase. Joined at a press conference by Barbara Anderson, president of Citizens for Limited Taxation, Baker said this ad is further proof that Patrick will continue to do the bidding of his union allies in exchange for the millions they are spending on ads on his behalf.
"Incredibly, the unions are running an ad attacking a pledge not to raise taxes, as if it's a pledge to send jobs overseas," said Barbara Anderson. "This is absurd even for them."

Source: http://www.charliebaker2010.com/integratedblogsite/c=pressreleases/?p=2329/
