Public Statements
The Patriot Ledger - Republican Governor Candidate Charlie Baker Displays Energy on Campaign Trail
News Article
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Sept. 30, 2010
Location: Unknown

By Nancy Reardon
It's before 8:30 a.m. on a holiday weekend morning, and Charlie Baker has just pulled over to get his caffeine fix. But within seconds of paying for his large coffee, Baker turns the Westboro service plaza along the Massachusetts Turnpike into a campaign stop.
He shakes the hands of customers heading in the door, schmoozes with a family about their plans for the day, and high-fives a few kids.
On his way out the door, he stops a guy when he notices his band T-shirt.
"Hey! I love Flogging Molly," Baker says, engaging the man in a conversation about Celtic punk bands. "You ever see them in concert?"
It is a scene in which Baker is all smiles and full of energy, striking up conversations with ease and humor.
And it's a sharp contrast to Baker's appearances in televised debates and at press conferences, where political observers have said he comes across as angry, arrogant and robotic.
The coffee-shop break was the first of many stops The Patriot Ledger made with Baker on Labor Day as the Republican gubernatorial candidate delivered a breakfast speech to supporters, marched in a parade and held meet-and-greets with dozens of people.
While some political observers say Baker is not connecting enough with voters, the Swampscott resident regularly works up a sweat while trying to impress people along the campaign trail.
The midday parade route around downtown Marlboro left Baker with sweat on his face and a damp hairline. That's partly because, instead of walking along the route and waving, Baker ran and skipped from one side of the road to the other, giving high-fives, patting kids on the head, posing for pictures and even kissing a few babies.
He was followed by about 60 supporters wearing campaign T-shirts, holding signs and chanting "Go Charlie Go!"
It was a high point in a day that started around 7:15 a.m. when Baker's driver, Sean Powers -- who is also a Braintree councilor-at-large -- picked him up at his Swampscott manse, which is located on a tree-lined street with an ocean view at the end.
His wife, Lauren, walked him to the campaign vehicle -- a hybrid SUV -- and kissed him goodbye, with his dog Lucy trailing behind.
Baker said his family, which includes two sons and a daughter, ages 13 to 19, is "not a political family." He concedes that the grueling pace of the campaign has been hard on them.
"My daughter once left a note on my pillow for when I got home, saying she'd like to schedule an appointment to see me," Baker said.
He wears four bracelets, three of them given to him by his daughter, wife and one of his sons. The bracelet from his son is blue in support of Swampscott's "Big Blue" football team.
"They remind you of what's most important," he said.
He has been working the whole campaign to make up ground on the frontrunner, Gov. Deval Patrick, and he may now be succeeding. The latest poll, released by the Boston Globe, shows a dead heat, with Patrick garnering support from 35 percent of likely voters, compared with 34 percent for Baker, a statistical tie given the poll's margin of error. Tim Cahill of Quincy, the state treasurer who left the Democratic Party last year, continued to lag behind with 11 percent. Green-Rainbow candidate Jill Stein got 4 percent, and 14 percent said they are undecided.
This day, like most of Baker's days, is packed, as he works hard to drum up support among fellow Republicans and undecided voters alike. On his first official stop, Baker addressed about 100 fellow GOP candidates and supporters at the Worcester Republican City Committee breakfast at the Elks Lodge hall.
"Up on Beacon Hill, they get to play by a different set of rules than everyone else," Baker said, stirring claps from the crowd.
It's a line he recycles often, at rallies and in debates. When asked later about his almost-famous campaign lines, he said, "I have a few songs I like, depending on the mood."
Yet while the heated governor's race is Baker's first statewide campaign, the former Harvard Pilgrim Health Care CEO is no stranger to politics.
He served on the Swampscott Board of Selectman for three years, as well as the town's school building committee. In 1991, he joined former Gov. William Weld's administration as undersecretary and then secretary of health and human services. In 1994, he moved to the administration's finance secretary position, managing state finances and advising the governor.
Yet that experience hasn't stopped him from positioning himself as a Beacon Hill outsider, saying he has a fresh, common-sense perspective that he tells voters his two closest opponents lack.
Baker has said that if he believed Massachusetts was being run the right way, he would still be working at Harvard Pilgrim.
Like Cahill, he points to last year's sales-tax increase -- from 5 percent to 6.25 percent -- as a pivotal moment in his decision to run.
"It makes me nuts," he said.
He and Cahill have both touted fiscally-conservative credentials for voters in November, but given recent polls, Baker said he sees the race as a two-way contest between him and Patrick.
After the Labor Day parade, he rallied with supporters on a patch of grass and vowed to work hard to come out on top.
"We've got 60 days left of very hard work to get from here to there," he said. "We're going to fight for every single vote come Election Day."

Source: http://www.patriotledger.com/features/x1547138690/Republican-governor-candidate-Charlie-Baker-displays-energy-on-campaign-trail
