Public Statements
Turnaround at Harvard Pilgrim What MA Needs Today
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Sept. 29, 2010
Location: Boston, MA

Baker the only candidate who can tackle mess Gov. Patrick is leaving for next governor
Today's Boston Globe illustrates an important distinction between Governor Patrick and Charlie Baker and the choices they will make as governor. Where Baker made the tough choices needed to fix a broken company, Patrick has avoided taking on tough decisions that could upset his political allies.
As the story points out, Baker took over Harvard Pilgrim Health Care as it was teetering on bankruptcy, turned it around and made it profitable. Governor Patrick took over Massachusetts and immediately began increasing the size of government by hiring more than 2,000 people during his first two years in office, hiked spending by nearly $1 billion during his first six months in office, raided the Rainy Day Fund, and raised taxes.
"I made the tough decisions that were needed to save Harvard Pilgrim from collapse," said Baker. "Governor Patrick has spent the past four years avoiding tough decisions and blocking reform, and that's why we're facing a $2.5 billion deficit for next year."
Yet the experience, say Baker supporters and critics, illustrates his proclivity for dramatic and sometimes controversial cutbacks to tackle tough financial problems. While Baker was forced to operate in crisis mode in his early years at Harvard Pilgrim, he later focused on rebuilding the company's reputation with physicians, employers, and patients. By the time he left last year to mount his campaign, the state's second-largest health insurer was profitable and had 1.1 million customers, almost as many as it had before its near-collapse. -- Boston Globe, September 29, 2010
Throughout the gubernatorial campaign, Baker has outlined the reforms and restructuring he will pursue as governor that will save more than $1 billion in taxpayer money. Baker has proposed executive orders that would freeze employee pay and suspend bonus pay, impose a hiring freeze, ensure state benefits only go to residents who are here legally and end project-labor agreements.
Governor Patrick's record tells a very different story, one of eight tax increases worth more than $1 billion, spending increases worth $3 billion, and record job losses because he was unwilling to pursue any of the reforms or cost-saving measures that could have taken Massachusetts in a different direction.
"The choice in this election couldn't be clearer," Baker said. "I will take on the tough reforms and fix what is broken about state government that Governor Patrick has avoided doing from day one."

Source: http://www.charliebaker2010.com/integratedblogsite/c=pressreleases/?p=2289/
