Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Establishes Council to Address Aging in Massachusetts
Press Release
By: Karyn Polito Charlie Baker
Date: April 12, 2017
Location: Cambridge, MA

Today, at MIT AgeLab in Cambridge, Governor Charlie Baker signed an Executive Order establishing the state's first Governor's Council to Address Aging in Massachusetts. The Council will develop a plan to improve public and private efforts to support healthy aging in Massachusetts, to achieve the goal of making the Commonwealth the most age-friendly state for people of all ages. Older adults are the largest and fastest-growing segment of the U.S. population and they will make up 23% of the Commonwealth's population by 2035.
"The notion that people are fully retired at the age of 65 is inconsistent with what I see around Massachusetts every day," said Governor Charlie Baker. "Many of our older adults still have ample time, energy and talent available to start a second or third career, volunteer in their community, become a mentor or pursue an unfulfilled passion. I look forward to the council's work considering ways for the state to improve public and private means for supporting and engaging with older adults."
The council will be co-chaired by two social workers, philanthropist Eileen Connors and Executive Office of Health and Human Services Secretary Marylou Sudders, and is comprised of leaders across the business community, health care, technology and innovation, advocacy organizations, caregivers, and municipal leaders.
"Each municipality across the Commonwealth must be prepared to support an aging population," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "I look forward to the council's recommendations on what the state can do to celebrate the accomplishments and contributions of older adults, while protecting their right to live in respectful, inclusive communities, free of ageism."
"Many older adults work, volunteer, and contribute to their communities through civic engagement," said Eileen Connors, Council Co-Chair. "One in four people 65+ volunteer in a variety of capacities and continue to contribute to our state."

























Source:
