Public Statements
MA Unemployment Rate Doesn't Match Patrick Rhetoric
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Sept. 27, 2010
Location: Boston, MA

25 other states have lower unemployment rate than MA
With 25 other states currently achieving a lower unemployment rate than Massachusetts, Charlie Baker on Monday said that Massachusetts must get serious about lowering taxes and creating a more predictable, stable and competitive business climate for the Bay State to get the more than 300,000 unemployed people back to work.
Despite Governor Patrick's rhetoric that Massachusetts is coming out of the recession "faster and stronger" than the rest of the country, there are 25 other states -- including Arkansas, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and Maine -- with a lower unemployment rate. And 10 years ago this week, Massachusetts' unemployment rate hit its lowest rate in 34 years at 2.6 percent. During Governor Patrick's tenure in office, Massachusetts' unemployment rate was its highest in 34 years and peaked at 9.5 percent earlier this year.
"After eight tax increases and out of control spending from Beacon Hill, it's no wonder Massachusetts has experienced record job losses during the past four years," said Baker, speaking at a small business in Brighton. "I'm not willing to settle for being the middle of the pack with a mediocre recovery. We have to get serious about creating a climate where businesses want to hire the more than 300,000 people currently without a job."
Baker has proposed a plan -- Getting Massachusetts Back in Business -- to reduce the income tax, sales tax and business tax each to 5 percent. Baker also has plans to reform the unemployment insurance system, place a moratorium on new regulations, and create a regional economic development program that matches the needs of each individual area of the state.
"I'm the only candidate with real plans to take Massachusetts in a new direction," Baker said. "And the people of Massachusetts need strong leadership now to turn our state around."

Source: http://www.charliebaker2010.com/integratedblogsite/c=pressreleases/?p=2266/
