Public Statements
Baker Signs No New Taxes Pledge
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Sept. 15, 2010
Location: Boston, MA

Patrick-Cahill team's support for higher taxes clouds current rhetoric
Charlie Baker on Wednesday chided Governor Patrick and Treasurer Cahill for admitting last night that their own tax increases are causing Massachusetts workers to be taxed too much, and criticized Patrick and Cahill for not signing the no-new taxes pledge. Baker and his running-mate Richard Tisei are the only candidates in the race who have signed the pledge not to raise taxes if elected.
Though Governor Patrick and Treasurer Cahill have been on Beacon Hill for the past four years supporting higher taxes, they both admitted to their election-year conversions last night when asked by WBZ's Dan Rea if they believe Massachusetts workers are taxed too much. Cahill helped Patrick earn the Democratic nomination four years ago when he endorsed him before the primary because of his support for higher taxes.
Cahill, who abandoned his vocal support for higher taxes in February when he began his campaign for governor, agreed with Baker that residents are taxed too much, while Governor Patrick choked out "maybe too much." Patrick has repeatedly refused to rule out raising taxes again if he is re-elected.
"The eight tax increases of the past four years have cost Massachusetts jobs," said Baker. "Governor Patrick and Treasurer Cahill have been advocating for and pushing for those higher taxes for the past four years and it's time for a new team to take Massachusetts in a new direction."
Baker and Tisei have signed the "No New Taxes' pledge, reinforcing their plans to turn Massachusetts' economy around by reforming and restructuring state government, rather than raising taxes like the Patrick -- Cahill team has done. Baker supports reducing the income tax, sales tax and business tax rate to 5 percent and will push for those tax cuts upon taking office.

Source: http://www.charliebaker2010.com/pressreleases.php
