Public Statements
Issue Position: Environment
Issue Position
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

I believe that we have a responsibility to protect and preserve our natural resources for future generations and that Massachusetts can and must be a leader in promoting strong environmental policies. As Governor, I would continue the legacy of strong environmental leadership begun by Governor William Weld.
I'm concerned about the effects of climate change on our environment. I also believe that a strong economy is crucial to our ability to wisely invest in solutions which will not only benefit our natural environment, but also improve our economic environment, by creating new technology jobs and reducing energy costs.
I believe that renewable energy is an important investment in our future. Massachusetts is uniquely poised to take advantage of alternative energy sources, which have the potential to save taxpayers and businesses money on their electric bills and will reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Cutting energy costs is another way to make Massachusetts more affordable for families and businesses.
At the same time, in order to ensure we can make the kind of long-term commitment to renewable energy that will be necessary to fundamentally change the way we produce and think about energy, we must first get the state's fiscal house in order.
We also have to be smart about how we invest and we need to be sure that the projects we support are cost effective solutions. The cost of electricity in Massachusetts is double the national average, and triple what businesses and homeowners pay in states that we compete with for jobs and talent. Our approach to energy and electricity cannot make this already extremely difficult situation worse.
Renewable energy generation has to deliver measurable cost savings to families and employers. Wind, biomass, and solar all have a role to play in reducing demand for fossil fuels, but the price of these energy sources can not make Massachusetts' already uncompetitive energy picture even worse.

Source:
