Public Statements
Issue Position: Cities and Town
Issue Position
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

PROTECTING CITIES AND TOWNS
Fighting for Local Governments
Cities and towns have been hit hard by the frequent cuts in local aid payments by the state. For two consecutive years, municipalities have been told by state leaders to revise their budgets mid year, which has wreaked havoc on critical local duties like fire and police protection, education, library services, and the like. Our cities and towns have fallen prey to the "fly by the seat of the pants" budgeting habits on Beacon Hill.
I served as a member of my hometown's Board of Selectmen, and as Secretary of the Executive Office for Administration and Finance in Massachusetts. I know first hand what happens to cities and towns when state government cuts local aid.
Politicians on Beacon Hill should stop trying to balance the budget on the backs of local governments. State government should be cut before local government -- that hasn't happened. We have 7,500 more state employees than we did in 2004. That's wrong and that has to change.
This Administration has also created another unfunded mandate for our struggling cities and towns by eliminating state funding for Quinn, but not completely eliminating the program. I support reinstating the funding for the current officers enrolled in the program to help cities and towns deal with the hundreds of millions in local aid cuts they have been handed over the past three years. Going forward, the Quinn program has been abolished and I would not support reinstating it. I would, however, encourage officers to pursue college degrees by providing free tuition to state colleges and state universities. I would leave it up to the municipalities to decide whether or not they want to reward the officers for obtaining college degrees.
I believe cutting local aid should be off the table right now. Long term, we need to offer cities and towns a more predictable revenue sharing model, one based on a defined share of state taxes.
I also believe that we should provide cities and towns with tools to help manage their budgets. I support providing cities and towns with health insurance plan design. I also believe that civilian flaggers should be paid a much lower rate than police officers; they are currently paid the same hourly rate which means this "reform' doesn't save cities and towns any money. I would amend the law so that flaggers are not paid prevailing wage. If cities and towns want to pay the extra hourly rate for police, that is their decision to make.
As Governor, I'll put my experience to work, and promote policies in state government to help our cities and towns succeed.

Source: http://www.charliebaker2010.com/issuesLocalGovt.php
