Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Announces New Broadband Grant Program
By: Karyn Polito Charlie Baker
Date: March 28, 2017
Location: Boston, MA

Today the Baker-Polito Administration announced the Last Mile Infrastructure Grant Program, a new, flexible grant program designed to speed the deployment of broadband internet networks in more than 40 unserved Western and Central Massachusetts communities.
Under the new Last Mile Infrastructure Grant Program, the Baker-Polito Administration will make grants directly to rural communities currently unserved by high-speed internet access, for the design, engineering, and construction of publicly-owned broadband networks. The grant program will award up to $20 million in capital funds directly to Last Mile towns, and will be administered by the Executive Office of Housing and Economic Development.
"There is no one-size-fits-all solution to the broadband gaps currently facing rural Massachusetts towns, so our administration is empowering communities to pursue the solutions that are most appropriate for them," said Governor Charlie Baker. "We want broadband solutions to be flexible and responsive to local needs, regardless of whether our local partners pursue municipally-owned networks, public-private partnerships, or alternative technologies. The new Last Mile Infrastructure Grant Program advances our administration's commitment to tackling broadband connectivity challenges with collaboration, flexibility, and problem-solving."
"This new grant program will build on our reforms to the Last Mile broadband program, and speed the construction of locally-owned broadband networks," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "Western and Central Massachusetts communities have told us they want a more nimble and more responsive Last Mile program. We have taken their feedback to heart, and through this new grant program, we will accelerate the pace of progress on local Last Mile broadband challenges."
"We are committed to helping every town that wants to pursue high-speed internet access, pursue a path forward to reliable, sustainable, affordable broadband," said Housing and Economic Development Secretary Jay Ash. "We look forward to continuing our deep engagement with local and legislative stakeholders, as we work to deliver on our shared priorities."

Source:
