Public Statements
Governor Baker Signs Commonwealth Procurement Resolve for Conflict-Free Congolese Minerals
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Feb. 2, 2017
Location: Boston, MA

Today, Governor Charlie Baker ceremoniously signed a Resolve examining commonwealth procurement policies relative to Congo conflict minerals (S. 2463), requiring the Executive Office of Administration and Finance in consultation with the Office of the Inspector General to review state procurement policies and examine best practices ensuring that the Commonwealth's electronics and information technology suppliers provide products that do not directly or indirectly finance armed conflict or result in labor or human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country, use minerals that the origin and exporter can be identified and contain raw materials that appropriate tax payments have been made on.
"I was pleased to sign legislation upholding Massachusetts' reputation as being a global leader in ensuring both the human rights and protections of all those that participate in supplying goods and services in Massachusetts," said Governor Charlie Baker.
The Executive Office of Administration and Finance will issue a report by July 1, 2017 on products in the Commonwealth's supply chain that may contain extracted mineral resources from the Democratic Republic of Congo and its adjoining countries. The report will also contain the recommended best practices for the implementation of processes supporting conflict-free procurement from Congo.
"This legislation sets the stage for Massachusetts to review how we do business with companies and what their social, economic, and worldwide impact is," said Lt. Governor Karyn Polito. "I am glad that Massachusetts can continue to be a safe and welcoming global economy."
"I am proud that this important bill, which I sponsored when I was a member of the House of Representatives, is being signed today," said Mayor Martin J. Walsh. "For far too long, millions of people in the Congo have suffered due to greed for mineral wealth. Through its purchasing power, this bill will allow Massachusetts to do its part in combating the labor and human rights violations associated with the mineral industry in the Congo, with the goal of deterring such behavior in the future."
"This is a step the Commonwealth can take to be better stewards of our world," said the resolve's lead Senate sponsor, Senator Thomas M. McGee. "The actions of our State have a ripple effect even as far as the Democratic Republic of Congo, and this resolve is a tool we can use to continue Massachusetts' tradition of protecting human rights."
"I am so proud that Massachusetts is committed to defending human rights, not only here but around the world," said lead House sponsor Representative Ruth B. Balser.
Massachusetts joins Maryland and California, as well as 25 schools and six cities around the world in implementing policies supporting conflict-free minerals trade and peace in the Democratic Republic of Congo, complying with federal laws on conflict minerals as a provision of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2017/resolve-for-conflict-free-congolese-minerals-signed.html
