Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration Announces $8.8 Million in Local Grant and Community Compact Funding
Press Release
By: Karyn Polito Charlie Baker
Date: Jan. 20, 2017
Location: Boston, MA

Speaking at the Massachusetts Municipal Association's (MMA) Annual Meeting today, Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito announced that the Baker-Polito Administration plans to file $4 million for Community Compact grants and $2.8 million for the District Local Technical Assistance Program in their Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) operating budget proposal, to be released next week. Lieutenant Governor Polito also announced that the administration plans to include $2 million in the Governor's FY18 Capital Budget, released in the spring, for the Community Compact IT Grant Program.
"Establishing our administration as a reliable and responsive partner for the Commonwealth's cities and towns has been a top priority since day one," said Governor Charlie Baker. "We look forward to building on that commitment through our upcoming budget proposal and continuing all of our work with local officials on making Massachusetts a great place to live, work, and raise a family."
"As former local officials ourselves, the Governor and I understand how important a town's relationship with state government can be," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "As Chair of the Community Compact Cabinet, I have been fortunate enough to work with cities, towns, and regional planning agencies on establishing best practices, upgrading essential IT infrastructure, and identifying thoughtful efficiency and regionalization opportunities. The Baker-Polito Administration looks forward to another successful year of state and local partnership."
"We are pleased to once again provide this important funding to invest in our communities," said Secretary Kristen Lepore. "We have spent over $15 million on Community Compact programs over the past two operating and capital budgets, and the FY18 commitment will allow this successful program to support best practices at the local government level."
In the FY18 budget proposal that the administration will file next Wednesday, $2 million will be proposed to continue the Community Compact's Best Practices Program. To date, 252 cities and towns from across the Commonwealth have signed a community compact with the state. Of the more than 600 best practices identified, approximately 75% of them are either complete or underway.
The administration's budget proposal for the upcoming fiscal year will also include $2 million for the Community Compact's Efficiency and Regionalization Grant Program. Administered in two rounds per fiscal year, the first round of grant applications in FY17 was highly competitive and led to $1.25 million in grants for 72 municipalities and 10 school districts. The application process for the second round of this fiscal year is currently underway and closes on February 1st.
Additionally, $2.8 million will be included in the Baker-Polito Administration's FY18 budget proposal to continue funding the District Local Technical Assistance Program, so the state can continue working with the 13 regional planning agencies across the Commonwealth on technical issues dealing with economic development, housing, transportation and environmental projects at the local level.
In the Governor's third capital budget, released this spring, $2 million will be provided for the Community Compact IT Grant Program. In the program's first year, grants were awarded to 52 municipalities for various projects aimed at driving innovation at the local level. The FY17 grant application period runs from March 1 -- April 1 and those municipalities who have signed up for the Best Practice program by February 15th are eligible, except for those who received an IT grant in FY16.
About the Community Compact Cabinet:
Formed in January 2015, the Community Compact Cabinet is chaired by Lt. Governor Polito and comprised of the secretaries of Housing & Economic Development, Education, Transportation, and Energy & Environmental Affairs, the Senior Deputy Commissioner of Local Services, the Assistant Secretary of Operational Services, and the Chief Information Officer of the Commonwealth. The Community Compact Cabinet elevates the Administration's partnerships with cities and towns, and allows the Governor's Office to work more closely with leaders from all municipalities. The Cabinet champions municipal interests across all executive secretariats and agencies, and develops, in consultation with cities and towns, mutual standards and best practices for both the state and municipalities. The creation of Community Compacts creates clear standards, expectations and accountability for both partners.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2017/8-8-million-in-local-grant-and-community-compact-funding.html
