Public Statements
Governor Baker Signs Electric Vehicle Promotion Legislation
Press Release
By: James Eldridge Bruce Tarr Frank Smizik Brad Jones, Jr. Karyn Polito Stan Rosenberg Robert DeLeo Jon Hecht Charlie Baker
Date: Jan. 13, 2017
Location: Boston, MA

Today, in a bipartisan effort to promote the sale and use of zero emission vehicles (ZEVs) in the Commonwealth, Governor Charlie Baker signed Senate Bill 2505, An Act Promoting Zero Emission Vehicle Adoption. The legislation works to increase access to ZEV charging stations for the general public by prohibiting owners of public charging stations from charging users a subscription or membership fee and requiring the use of payment options available to the general public. Further, the legislation allows municipalities and private businesses to restrict parking spaces specifically for ZEV use, and builds upon the Baker-Polito Administration's ongoing commitment to adopting emerging clean energy technologies as the Commonwealth continues to add renewable energy generation into the Massachusetts' diverse energy portfolio.
"Adopting clean technology and promoting additional zero emission vehicles is a critical piece of meeting our emissions reductions goals," said Governor Charlie Baker. "Today's zero emission vehicle legislation makes major strides towards providing consumers with confidence that charging stations will be available to them, whether on a long trip or at work, a commonly cited hurdle in transitioning from traditional to zero emission vehicles."
"Our administration is committed to improving the Commonwealth's transportation infrastructure and this legislation will give electric vehicle owners the confidence they need to travel our state roadways with access to charging stations," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "We look forward to working with our state and municipal partners to find increased opportunities to integrate more electric and fuel efficient vehicles into their fleets to save taxpayer dollars and reduce emissions."
In 2016 the Baker-Polito Administration committed $14 million to the Commonwealth's electric vehicle rebate program, Massachusetts Offers Rebates for Electric Vehicles (MOR-EV), more than doubling the historic funding of the MOR-EV program. Massachusetts automotive consumers can qualify for rebates ranging from $750-$2,500 on the purchase or lease of more than 25 qualifying new electric vehicles, including battery electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. Since June 2014, the MOR-EV program has issued or reserved over $7 million for 3,355 vehicles, cutting the state's greenhouse gas emissions output by an estimated 9,255 short tons annually.

Source:
