Public Statements
Governor Baker and Israeli Chief Scientist Hasson Announce Bilateral Agreement to Spur Cooperation in Research and Development
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Dec. 13, 2016
Location: Tel Aviv, Israel

Today, Governor Charlie Baker joined Israeli Chief Scientist Avi Hasson and Economic Minister to North America Inon Elroy to announce a bilateral cooperation agreement between the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the State of Israel on partnerships in research and business development.
"This bilateral agreement reaffirms Massachusetts's special relationship with the State of Israel by renewing our commitment to work with our Israeli partners on research and business development," said Governor Baker. "By providing a new foundation for cooperative research and development activities, this agreement will enhance the Commonwealth's economic competitiveness, spur new innovations in emerging technology fields, and advance our commitment to growing jobs across Massachusetts."
"The Israel-Massachusetts ongoing partnership is an essential pillar in R&D collaboration," said Avi Hasson, Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Economy of the State of Israel. "These strong links play an important role in promoting innovation and creating innovative solutions. I am assured both industries, from Israel and Massachusetts, will benefit from such relations and will generate high quality innovative projects leading to the creation of strong economic ties. "
The new cooperation agreement between the two governments commits Massachusetts and Israel to strengthening their economic, industrial, technological, and commercial cooperation, by identifying and advancing joint research and development efforts that will lead to the commercialization of new products, in the global marketplace. The agreement also facilitates bilateral business development efforts.
The Governor, Chief Scientist and Economic Minister met today for a discussion on government's role in fostering innovation economies through the development of commercial research and public private partnerships prior to announcing the agreement. The agreement comes as part of the Baker-Polito Administration's Economic Development Mission to Israel to focus on leveraging the Commonwealth's unique and innovative economic climate to welcome Israel's global leadership in cybersecurity and digital health.
The mission builds on the Commonwealth's unique and existing relationship with Israel. According to the NEIBC's 3rd edition economic impact study, Israeli-founded companies in Massachusetts booked over $9 billion in revenue in 2015 -- nearly 4 percent of the state's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) -- and employed 9,000 workers. The study also found that the growth rate of Israeli companies in Massachusetts is four times that of the Massachusetts economy as a whole.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2017/ma-israel-bilateral-agreement-to-spur-r-and-d-cooperation.html
