Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration to Embark on Israeli Economic Development Mission
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Dec. 6, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker and the New England-Israel Business Council (NEIBC) today released additional details on the Baker-Polito Administration's upcoming Economic Development Mission to Israel, focused on leveraging the Commonwealth's unique and innovative economic climate to welcome Israel's global leadership in the cybersecurity and digital health sectors.
"Massachusetts is one of the most innovative states in the nation and our unique economic relationship with Israel is a key driver to increase our competitiveness for the world's emerging digital health and cyber security industries," said Governor Baker. "This mission will provide opportunities to exchange ideas and showcase all Massachusetts has to offer, from a highly-educated and talented workforce, to top tier universities and a vibrant venture capital sector, as these startup Israeli businesses seek a home away from home to expand and create new jobs in the Commonwealth."
The mission will build on the Commonwealth's unique and existing relationship with Israel. According the NEIBC's 3rd edition economic impact study, Israeli-founded companies in Massachusetts booked over $9 billion in revenue in 2015 -- nearly 4 percent of the state's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) -- and employed 9,000 workers. The study also found that the growth rate of Israeli companies in Massachusetts is four times that of the Massachusetts economy as a whole.
Massachusetts recognizes a thriving digital health ecosystem, with nearly 300 innovative companies and 10 digital health innovation programs and accelerators, including an initiative announced by Governor Baker earlier this year. Cybersecurity continues to be one of the major economic growth drivers between Israel and the Commonwealth's robust research, investment, capital and talent sectors.
Over the course of the mission, the Governor and delegation members will participate in various forums and site visits with Israeli partners seeking to do business in the Commonwealth, including but not limited to:
A U.S.-Israel Growth Summit, bringing the delegation and over 400 Israeli business leaders in cybersecurity and digital health together to explore opportunities for partnership and engagement.
A visit to the Israel Center for Medical Simulation, a world leader in medical education and patient safety training programs designed to improve clinical skills, communication and teamwork.
Round robin business development discussions and exchanges with CEOs and Founders of promising and growth stage Israeli Startups seeking to expand in the United States.
A discussion on government's role in fostering innovation economies through the development of commercial research and public private partnerships, with Israeli Chief Scientist Avi Hasson.
A discussion with GE executives on their future in the Israeli tech ecosystem, and reasoning for choosing the Commonwealth as the home for its new global headquarters. GE employs 500 people in Israel.
A visit to MassChallenge Israel, opened in 2016 and first founded in Boston as one of the world's most startup friendly accelerator's. The Israel site has received hundreds of applications from top startups from across the nation and world since opening.
The delegation will include nearly 40 private sector partners, to be announced, and members of the Baker-Polito Administration, including Assistant Secretary of Innovation, Technology and Entrepreneurship Katie Stebbins, Health Connector Executive Director Louis Gutierrez, MassIT Executive Director Mark Nunnelly and Senior Advisor for Anti-Terrorism and Cyber Security, Han Olsen. The administration is partnering with the New England Israel Business Council (NEIBC), with the support of Combined Jewish Philanthropies (CJP) to host the mission at no cost to taxpayers.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2017/admin-to-embark-on-israeli-economic-development-mission.html
