Public Statements
Governor Baker Signs Legislation to Bolster Public Fire Safety
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Oct. 20, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

Governor Charlie Baker today signed H.4455, An Act creating a special commission studying cutting, welding and hot work processes regulated by the State Fire Code, to prevent the loss of life resulting from tragedies such as the deadly nine-alarm brownstone fire on Beacon Street in March 2014. That fire, caused by welding on the building next door, put residents lives at risks and took the lives of two Boston firefighters, Lieutenant Edward Walsh and Firefighter Michael Kennedy.
"Lieutenant Walsh and Firefighter Kennedy faced an enormously complex situation when they bravely entered the brownstone to fight the fire that tragically took their lives," said Governor Charlie Baker. "I am proud to sign this bill into law to set in place appropriate regulations and licensing requirements for the safety of the public and our first responders."
"Firefighters don't always have complete information about the fires they are called to fight, so it is incumbent on us to take steps to reduce the risks they face by enacting sensible regulations in areas that can pose a serious threat to their safety," said Lt. Governor Karyn Polito. "The work that this commission undertakes is of the utmost importance to combatting deadly fires and ensuring the future safety and well-being of firefighters and citizens across the Commonwealth."
Under the new law, a special commission will be charged to investigate and study the current requirements for any licensing or permits governing cutting, welding, and other hot work processes that are capable of initiating fires or explosions to determine if the industry is adequately regulated to protect the public. The commission will study the use of supervised details and fire watches, adequacy of fees for inspection and oversight, the deterrent effect of penalties for violations of rules and regulations, along with potential cost recovery and assessment for damages resulting from failure to comply with rules and regulations.
"Boston will forever remember the heroic acts of Lieutenant Edward Walsh and Firefighter Michael Kennedy, and I am hopeful that recommendations from this commission will help us prevent future tragedies," said Mayor Martin J. Walsh. I thank Senator Donnelly and Representative Collins for their partnership on this legislation and the Governor for signing it into law."

Source:
