Public Statements
Governor Baker, Lt. Governor Polito and Transit Officials Provide Update on MBTA Reforms and Winter Resiliency Upgrades
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Sept. 9, 2016
Location: Braintree, MA

Governor Charlie Baker, Lt. Governor Karyn Polito and Secretary of Transportation Stephanie Pollack today visited the MBTA's Caddigan Yard near the Braintree MBTA stop as work commences this weekend on the second phase of Red Line winter resiliency upgrades and as the MBTA's Fiscal and Management Control Board (FMCB) continues to make improvement reforms to service, accountability and reliability for taxpayers and riders.
"The MBTA continues to improve its infrastructure and strengthen its ability to perform for riders during severe weather by investing in the core system," said Governor Charlie Baker. "This resiliency work and the Fiscal and Management Control Board's efforts to deliver meaningful reforms, transparency and cost-effectiveness, will ultimately mean a more accountable and reliable transit system for the Commonwealth's commuters and taxpayers."
The $18.5 million resiliency contract was awarded in July by the FMCB to Barletta Heavy Division, Inc., and will implement upgrades along 9.9 miles of the Red Line's Braintree and Ashmont Lines, including the replacement of all third rail and heating systems, track and tie renewals, signals, track structure and conduit installations.
"These investments in preparation for another New England winter are important to the riders who depend on the system every day to get to and from their jobs and school," said Lt. Governor Karyn Polito. "Since historic snowfall and temperatures hampered the MBTA last year, leaders at the T have focused on the reforms and investments in the core system to ensure greater reliability."
The Governor, Lt. Governor and Secretary were joined by MBTA General Manager Brian Shortsleeve, Chief Operating Officer Jeffrey Gonneville and Braintree Mayor Joseph Sullivan, who was appointed to the Massachusetts Department of Transportation's (MassDOT) new Board of Directors when it was expanded as a result of reform legislation filed and signed by Governor Baker last year.


Source:
