Public Statements
Baker-Polito Administration, Offshore Wind Developers Announce Agreement for New Bedford Marine Commerce Terminal
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Sept. 6, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

The Baker-Polito Administration today signed a Letter of Intent with DONG Energy, Deepwater Wind and OffshoreMW to lease the New Bedford Marine Commerce Terminal as a staging and deployment location for future wind projects. The agreement with the developers, who hold leases in the federally identified offshore wind energy development areas located 14 miles south of Martha's Vineyard, builds upon the Commonwealth's commitment to a diverse energy portfolio and position as a national leader in offshore wind, and will strengthen the state's clean energy economy.
"Massachusetts has achieved another major milestone in securing a clean energy future for the Commonwealth's ratepayers," said Governor Charlie Baker. "With this agreement, Massachusetts stands to recognize jobs and economic benefits from this emerging sector within the clean energy industry, and will continue to lead the nation in offshore wind development and renewable energy innovation."
"This is a big step forward in establishing a supply chain that will produce quality jobs and long-term economic growth on the South Coast and throughout Massachusetts," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "This agreement builds on the historic energy legislation recently signed by our administration, and will help ensure we meet our ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets while also creating a stronger economy for the Commonwealth."
Through the Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs (EEA) and the Massachusetts Clean Energy Center (MassCEC), the Letter of Intent with the offshore wind developers represents a commitment to a two-year lease at $5.7 million annually to use the terminal as a staging and deployment location for future wind projects.
"This agreement builds on the significant steps the Baker-Polito Administration has taken towards a balanced and diverse energy portfolio that will reduce both energy costs and our carbon footprint," said Energy and Environmental Affairs Secretary Matthew Beaton. "As a result of the signing of a Letter of Intent for the New Bedford Marine Commerce Terminal, Massachusetts continues to position itself to develop an entire clean energy economy around environmentally responsible power for ratepayers across the Commonwealth."
"Offshore wind presents a significant resource, and the state's key investments in infrastructure and advanced planning make it an ideal location to establish a supply chain that will service this industry along the East Coast," said MassCEC Interim CEO Stephen Pike. "MassCEC is ready to welcome our first offshore wind customers as we prepare to make Massachusetts the North American hub of this emerging industry."
"I am very proud to join in this morning's announcement," said Congressman William Keating (D-Massachusetts). "Massachusetts is -- and has been -- a pioneer of harnessing offshore wind energy, and collaboration at all levels has invested in the infrastructure, policies, and workforce programs to ensure that this sector succeeds. Offshore wind energy development is not a trend, and neither are the many benefits that energy consumers of all demographics will reap. Nationally and state-wide, we are committed to growing wind energy capacity, thus reducing the costs of offshore wind to consumers as well as levels of carbon pollution."
The announcement follows the Baker-Polito Administration's recent signing of comprehensive energy legislation which requires utilities to competitively solicit and contract for approximately 1,600 megawatts (MW) of offshore wind and 1,200 MW of other clean energy generation, such as hydropower. The legislation spurs the development of an emerging offshore wind industry to create jobs and represents the largest commitment by any state in the nation to offshore wind.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2017/offshore-wind-developers-sign-agreement-in-new-bedford.html
