Public Statements
Governor Baker Elevates State's Response to Widespread Drought
Press Release
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Aug. 18, 2016
Location: North Andover, MA

Today, in response to the fifth consecutive month of abnormally dry conditions across the Commonwealth, Governor Charlie Baker outlined continued actions to be taken by state agencies to assist Massachusetts' residents, farmers, and municipalities as the region continues to face the effects associated with prolonged drought conditions. Joined by state and federal officials at Smolak Farms in North Andover, Governor Baker's announcement follows the recent declaration of a Drought Warning for Central and Northeast Massachusetts, a Drought Watch for Southeast Massachusetts and the Connecticut River Valley, and a Drought Advisory for Western Massachusetts and the Cape and Islands.
"With much of Massachusetts continuing to experience extremely dry conditions, I am asking the public to administer best water conservation practices for the foreseeable future," said Governor Charlie Baker. "By minimizing water use, especially while outside, we will collectively take crucial steps necessary to enable ground water and reservoirs to rebound quicker as we work together to manage and reduce the effects of a statewide drought. Individuals should also check with their city or town officials to find out what local restrictions are in place as they vary from community to community."
"Our Administration continues to support communities across the Commonwealth to work in unison as we prepare for the very serious ramifications that a prolonged drought can have on our economy and public safety," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "From farming operations to wild fires, droughts can have lasting effects, and it is incredibly important we all work together to conserve water while these dry conditions persist."
To promote public water conservation, the administration is encouraging the public to adopt water saving techniques into their daily routine to assist with extremely low groundwater and streamflow levels around Massachusetts. Outdoor techniques include limiting outdoor water use, covering swimming pools when not in use to prevent evaporative loss, sweeping driveways, walks, patios, and other outdoor areas with a broom rather than hosing them off. Indoor water conservation techniques include reducing shower times to five minutes or less, washing only full loads of laundry and dishes, turning off the tap when brushing teeth or shaving, and fixing water leaks in household items. Additionally, the Baker-Polito Administration has instructed all state-run and state-owned facilities to take appropriate measures to conserve water.

Source:
