Public Statements
Governor Baker Signs Legislation Enhancing Partnerships Between State and Municipal Governments
Statement
By: Charlie Baker
Date: Aug. 9, 2016
Location: Boston, MA

Today, Governor Charlie Baker signed legislation improving critical components of the partnership between state and municipal governments by eliminating or updating obsolete laws, promoting local independence, streamlining state oversight and providing municipalities with greater flexibility. The legislation, An Act modernizing municipal finance and government (H. 4565), reflects operational modernization and technological advancement at the local level, allowing municipalities to better address local issues.
"This municipal modernization legislation is a great example of some true weed whacking of outdated, clunky laws that will empower our municipalities and support good-governing at the local level across the Commonwealth," said Governor Charlie Baker. "As two former local officials ourselves, the Lieutenant Governor and I have a true appreciation for the independence and flexibility created by this commonsense bill, allowing municipal officials to better serve all of our constituents and create stronger communities in all of our 351 cities and towns."
"City and town officials across the Commonwealth know they have a reliable partner in the Baker-Polito Administration," said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. "Whether through the working group we established shortly after taking office that generated over 1,300 suggestions from over 235 municipalities and school districts on how to deliver services more efficiently, or the more than 231 Communities that have signed a Community Compact, the ongoing dialogue we have had with local officials and our partners in the legislature is what made this effort possible."
The Baker-Polito Administration's commitment to support and partner with local municipal governments remains a strong priority. As a part of the Building Stronger Communities tour, Lt. Governor Polito has met with officials from over 130 municipalities and professional associations. Since the establishment of the Community Compact Cabinet, Lt. Governor Polito has signed over 230 compacts to strengthen partnerships between cities and towns and the Commonwealth. These initiatives facilitate better communication and collaboration with local officials to further implement best practices in municipal governance.

Source: http://www.mass.gov/governor/press-office/press-releases/fy2017/legislation-enhancing-state-local-partnerships-signed.html
