Public Statements
Governor LePage and Quebec Premier Couillard Announce Electric Vehicle Corridor Initiative
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: March 9, 2016
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage and Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard today announced in Quebec City an initiative to expand electric vehicle infrastructure between the State of Maine and Quebec.
The electric vehicle corridor initiative, announced today in Quebec City, will build a public-private partnership to increase electric vehicle charging stations for travel between Quebec and Portland and assess the feasibility of additional charging stations to improve transit to other tourist locations in Maine.
"Tourism is our biggest industry, and it is critical that we ensure we have the electric vehicle infrastructure to ensure that the people of Quebec can continue to visit our beautiful state," said Governor LePage. "The history of the Quebec and Maine relationship is strong, and we must maintain our connectivity with modern transportation infrastructure. Electric vehicles have made significant progress and are coming to Maine. It's vital we have a plan to make Maine open to this important technological change."
"Electrification of transportation is a major shift in our traditional way of understanding transportation, especially in terms of innovation, research and infrastructure," added Premier Couillard. "Quebec fully embraces this opportunity to build a successful partnership with Maine in a thriving area such as transportation electrification. I salute Governor LePage's intentions to add this new dimension to the long-standing relationship between Quebec and Maine. We look forward to sharing expertise and to expanding new connections between our two jurisdictions."
The State of Maine, through the Energy Office and the Department of Transportation, plan to work with local businesses, national electric vehicle companies, and the newly formed "Drive Electric Maine" organization to ensure proper planning for an expansion of electric vehicle charging stations in the Pine Tree State. The Premier and Governor have directed a Committee of state and provincial agencies to execute an initial plan by summer 2016 and to continue to work with colleagues in the region to build on this effort.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=671527&v=article2011
