Public Statements
Radio Address: Increasing the Minimum Wage Could be Disastrous if Done Wrong
By: Paul LePage
Date: March 1, 2016
Location: Augusta, ME

The socialists at the Maine Peoples' Alliance are leading the effort to raise the minimum wage to $12. This would be disastrous for small businesses, entry-level employees and the elderly.
Hello, this is Governor Paul LePage.
If you increase the cost of doing business, one of two things will happen--maybe both. First, business owners will have to lay off workers to make up for the significantly higher wages they now have to pay. This will hurt inexperienced teenagers and other low-skill workers seeking part-time jobs. If employers have to pay high wages for a worker, they will hire someone with more skill and experience.
Second, business owners will have to raise their prices to cover the costs of the higher wages. This hurts the elderly and others on fixed incomes. They will suddenly have to pay higher prices, even though their income has not gone up. Even worse, the Maine Peoples' Alliance proposal would automatically raise the minimum wage every year, even during downturns in the economy. Automatically raising wages while revenue is going down would put some companies out of business.
Furthermore, this proposal will be devastating for restaurants. Wait staffs would be paid the minimum wage, which means they would get much smaller tips, if any. Restaurants would have to pay tens of thousands of dollars more in wages--some may have to pay hundreds of thousands. This would raise prices on the menu by 20 percent, which means you would pay more sales tax. Workers' comp and payroll taxes would also increase. These massive increases could put some of your favorite restaurants out of business for good.
The Maine Peoples' Alliance proposal will go to the voters as a ballot question in November. It would destroy jobs and inflict terrible damage on Maine businesses, especially in the retail, hospitality and tourism industries.

Source:
