Public Statements
Radio Address: $40 Million in Tax Relief is in Sight, but Democrats' Refuse to Put Money Back in Mainers Pockets
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: Feb. 9, 2016
Location: Unknown

The inaction of Democrats in the House of Representatives will have consequences on hardworking Mainers. Why don't they get it?
Hello, this is Governor Paul LePage.
It is important to Maine's small businesses, teachers, and homeowners that we conform to the federal tax code. Republicans in the Legislature support the concept to permanently conform Maine's tax code to federal tax laws because it will reduce taxes on the Maine people.
Democrats, however, have refused to vote for permanent tax relief. Their inaction will result in a nearly $40 million tax increase on Maine families.
Even the gridlocked members of Congress in Washington, D.C. agreed the American people deserved a break. So they approved these tax reductions late last year. But the socialist Democrats in Maine don't want to give you your money back.
It's not surprising Democrats want to tax you more. But they usually raise your taxes behind closed doors in the middle of the night. This time, they are proudly doing it out in the open, right in front of your face. You would think even socialist Democrats would know better than to increase taxes in an election year.
Our proposal is simple. It adopts conformity with the federal tax code, saving Mainers millions of dollars, and it extends the Maine Capital Investment Credit through 2019. Our plan also gives much-needed tax relief to teachers by conforming to the federal teacher expense deduction. This is an important tax break to Maine teachers who purchase classroom supplies out of their own pocket. In addition, the legislation will also extend Maine's conformity to itemized deductions for mortgage insurance and a deduction for higher education expenses.
Maine's Democrats are turning their backs on Maine teachers, students, families and small businesses. If you're a teacher buying supplies for your classroom, a family sending a kid to college or a business owner employing your neighbors, House Democrats are saying--loud and clear--that you are not a priority to them. This is exactly what I've been saying in my town hall meetings and they live up to their reputation, as expected.
If you want to prevent a $40 million tax increase, call or contact your Democratic legislators in the House who are refusing to vote for conformity. Tell them to let you keep more of the money you have earned. Tell them to do the right thing for the Maine people.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=669296&v=article
