Public Statements
Tax Conformity: Maine Democrats Just Don't Get It
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Feb. 3, 2016
Location: Augusta, ME

Republicans on the Maine Legislature's Joint Standing Committee on Appropriations and Financial Affairs voted today to support the LePage administration's proposal to permanently conform Maine's tax code to federal tax laws and reduce taxes on the Maine people.
Democrats refused to vote for permanent conformity, which will result in a $38 million tax increase on Maine families.
"Even members of Congress in gridlocked Washington, D.C. agreed the American people deserved a break when they approved tax reductions late last year," Governor LePage said. "Maine Democrats usually raise your taxes behind closed doors in the middle of the night. This time, they are proudly doing it out in the open, right in front of your face. You would think even Democrats would know better than to increase taxes in an election year."
The Department of Administrative and Financial Services' proposal adopts conformity to the permanent Section 179 expensing provision and extends the Maine Capital Investment Credit through 2019. The Department's proposal also permanently conforms Maine to the federal teacher expense deduction, an important tax break to Maine teachers who purchase classroom supplies out of their own pocket. In addition to these important provisions, the legislation will also extend Maine's conformity to federal tax items affecting itemized deductions for mortgage insurance and a deduction for higher education expenses.
"Maine's Democrats are turning their backs on Maine teachers, students, families and small businesses," said Governor LePage. "If you're a teacher buying supplies for your classroom, a family sending a kid to college or a business owner employing your neighbors, these Democrats are saying -- loud and clear -- that you are not a priority to them."
If you want to prevent a $38 million tax increase, call or contact the Democratic legislators on the Appropriations Committee who are refusing to vote for conformity and tell them to do the right thing for the Maine people.

Source:
