Public Statements
Radio Address: Maine Leads Wreaths Across America Journey to Honor American Heroes
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: Dec. 10, 2015
Location: Unknown

Hello, this is Governor, Paul LePage.
The first week of December marks a special time for Mainers as a caravan of volunteers makes its way from Washington County to Washington D.C. to lay thousands of wreaths on the graves of American heroes in Arlington National Cemetery.
Morrill and Karen Worcester, who own Worcester Wreath in Harrington, began this tradition with just a few wreaths in 1992. Today, the wreaths are on their way to more 11-hundred locations across the Nation.
It has become an annual pilgrimage to Arlington National Cemetery for dozens of Maine people, Gold Star families, the Patriot Guard Riders and the Maine State Police.
In each state along the way, stops are made for wreath-laying ceremonies at memorials, visits at veteran's homes and education programs at schools.
On Monday, I watched with pride as my lovely wife Ann once again joined the convoy, which she has been a part of for the past four years.
She has become a leading voice in raising awareness and appreciation of our military, our veterans and their families, which in return has been an incredible experience for both of us.
Wreaths Across America expects to reach its goal of placing 750,000 wreaths on veterans' graves this year. With each wreath we help to honor our veterans and active military, as well as their families.
On the convoy, there are 11 trucks filled with wreaths. Over 50 trucks will arrive Saturday at Arlington National Cemetery to be ready for the wreath laying by thousands of volunteers. However, not all trucks head to Arlington. There are more than 1,000 participating locations where wreaths are trucked all over the country.
The First Lady and I would like to say thank you to all of the professional drivers and the trucking companies that support this mission.
This trip helps to show our nation what it means to be from Maine. This Maine-led commemorative convoy, now known as the world's largest veteran's parade, makes Ann and me proud to call Maine home.
I look forward to joining her at Arlington National Cemetery this weekend for the wreath-laying ceremony.
As we celebrate the holiday, please remember the true spirit of the season, which shines in Wreaths Across America and those it pays tribute to. It is not just giving a gift, but giving of ourselves.
Thank you for listening.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=664354&v=article
