Public Statements
Governor Signs Critical Transportation Bond Bill to Improve Infrastructure and Create Jobs
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: July 6, 2015
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage signed into law LD 1415, An Act To Authorize Two General Fund Bond Issues To Improve Highways, Bridges and Multimodal Facilities, which authorizes an $85 million bond package for transportation projects that will improve infrastructure, promote economic development and create jobs in the State of Maine.
The Governor signed the bond bill on Wednesday, July 1, and voters will consider approving the measure in November.
"This critical investment of $85 million into Maine's transportation system will assure thousands of contractors and construction workers with long-term job security and continuing paychecks, and in turn will strengthen Maine's infrastructure and economy," said Governor LePage.
The bond ensures safe travel for residents and tourists alike. Investments include $17 million to construct, reconstruct or rehabilitate high-priority highways; $46 million for bridge replacements and rehabilitation; and $17 million for ports, harbors, marine transportation, aviation, transit and freight and passenger rail.
"This bond is critical for the State to deliver on its current Work Plan commitments, which keep our transportation system strong," said Governor LePage.
Furthermore, this bond package strengthens improvements to the International Marine Terminal in Portland to support the new transatlantic shipping line (Eimskip) recently established in Maine's largest city. This international connection benefits core Maine industries like fishing, agriculture, and forest products.
"The citizens of Maine have always recognized the importance of a solid, well-built well maintained transportation infrastructure," said Maine Department of Transportation Commissioner David Bernhardt. "I am confident when asked in November, the voters will continue to allow us to strengthen Maine's economy and build a transportation system that will benefit generations to come," concluded Commissioner Bernhardt.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=647923&v=article2011
