Public Statements
Governor and First Lady to Pay Tribute to Maine's Veterans on Memorial Day Weekend
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: May 22, 2015
Location: Augusta, ME

As Memorial Day approaches, Governor Paul R. LePage and the First Lady Ann M. LePage will pay tribute to Maine's veterans by joining hundreds of volunteers to place American flags on the gravestones of veterans.
Nearly 15,000 American flags will be placed in Maine Veterans Memorial cemeteries in Augusta, Caribou and Springvale beginning at 9 a.m. on Saturday, May 23. The grave flag effort began in 2006 and is led by Army Veteran Donald Simoneau every year.
"These flags represent the American freedom our veterans have preserved," said Governor LePage. "They, and their families, sacrificed for the sake of liberty. We, and future generations, are forever indebted to them."
The Governor and First Lady will attend special ceremonies in Augusta at Maine Veterans Memorial Cemeteries on Civic Center Drive and Mount Vernon Road. Volunteers are encouraged to gather at the top of the hill at 9 a.m. near the flag pole for brief ceremony and instructions on how to properly place each flag on the grave markers.
Additional ceremonies will take place Saturday at the Northern Maine Veterans Memorial Cemetery, located at 37 Lombard Road in Caribou, and the Southern Maine Veterans Memorial Cemetery, located at 83 Stanley Road.
First Lady Ann LePage who spends much of her time supporting veterans and their families says it is a pleasure to honor and pay tribute to Maine's heroes. "I can safely say that from all I have seen across this state and this country, Americans deeply respect the sacrifices our service members make to protect the things and the people they love," she said. "It is a respect that is removed from age, gender or politics and unites us as a nation. On this Memorial Day, we remember our veterans who are no longer with us and honor their spirit with the American flag."
On Monday, the First Lady will attend a 2 p.m. Maine Veterans' Memorial Day Ceremony at the Maine Veterans' Cemetery on Mount Vernon Road in Augusta. Governor LePage will deliver remarks at a special 50th Vietnam Anniversary Commemorative event in Windham on Memorial Day. The ceremony will take place at 1 p.m., Veterans Center, 35 Veterans Memorial Drive, Windham.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=644598&v=article2011
