Public Statements
Governor LePage Designates $10,000 to Easter Seals of Maine's Military and Veterans Services Program
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: May 19, 2015
Location: Augusta, ME

In an effort to help meet the physical and mental health needs Maine veterans and their families, Governor Paul R. LePage has designated $10,000 from the Governor's Contingency Fund to support Easter Seals of Maine's Military and Veterans Services program.
Thousands of injured military service members are returning home with hopes of successfully transitioning to civilian life. The Military and Veterans Services program helps to provide military members returning from conflict with a smooth transition.
"This program is an excellent example of Mainers working together to fill unmet needs in their communities," said Governor LePage. "The servicemen and women who have dedicated themselves to defending our freedom overseas face a unique set of challenges when returning home to civilian life. They deserve our full support in this time of transition, and the resources provided by Easter Seals of Maine are essential to long-term success for many of these individuals."
Gail Wilkerson, executive director of Easter Seals of Maine, says while there are many programs in Maine to assist military servicemen and women, gaps continue to remain in services and resources available to our veterans, including housing, education, family counseling and financial assistance.
"We are thankful for the Governor's designation of funding, which will continue to offer military and veterans systems of care with viable options to support and augment current reintegration efforts," said Wilkerson. "Many communities are not equipped to respond appropriately to their unique need, nor are they aware of how to best work with military and veterans systems in the process. This funding will help us serve our veterans to ensure their dignity, health and overall well-being," she added.
Governor LePage also donated $1,000 from the Contingency Fund to assist the American Legion Post 148 of Windham. The money will be used to help pay for the town's Commemoration of the 50th Anniversary of the Vietnam War.
"As Americans, we have a responsibility to support and thank our past and present military service members," said the Governor. "These events are essential to ensuring that we remember the sacrifices of our Vietnam War Veterans."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=644329&v=article2011
