Public Statements
Governor LePage Congratulates OnProcess Technology on Expansion in Belfast
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: May 18, 2015
Location: Augusta, ME

As many as 350 new jobs could soon be heading to Maine's midcoast region. Massachusetts-based OnProcess Technology today announced an expansion of its North America footprint. The global pioneer in service supply chain management and optimization will open a service delivery center in Belfast.
"We are pleased to welcome OnProcess Technology to Maine," said Governor Paul R. LePage. "This company has experienced significant growth within the last year and could have chosen anywhere in the world for an expansion. Its decision to start an operation in Maine is a testament to our ongoing commitment to become better partners with the private sector in attracting new investment and career opportunities for the Maine people."
Governor LePage also credits the expansion to the efforts of Maine and Company, a private non-profit organization that works to attract new businesses and investment to Maine.
OnProcess is planning to invest more than $2 million in the purchase of new equipment, employee training and other investments at the former MBNA facility. The company has secured a five-year lease on 35,000 square feet of space.
The company is planning to immediately hire 50 full- and part-time employees in a variety of positions, ranging from entry-level agents to managerial roles. The Department of Labor's Maine Job Bank and CareerCenter network will be immediately assisting OnProcess in hiring staff as quickly as possible.
To learn more about these exciting opportunities, apply for positions and or conduct on-site interviews, please consider attending the OnProcess Technology Job Fair on Wednesday, May 20 from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. and Thursday, May 21 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Hutchinson Center, 80 Belmont Ave., Belfast.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=644211&v=article2011
