Public Statements
#SubEnergyPower Continues to Build Architecture of Abundance with a Focus on Hydropower and Natural Gas Pipelines
Press Release
By: Paul LePage Ed Whitfield Fred Upton
Date: May 13, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

The Subcommittee on Energy and Power today continued work on its Architecture of Abundance energy legislation with a review of "Discussion Drafts Addressing Hydropower Regulatory Modernization and FERC Process Coordination under the Natural Gas Act." The drafts are part of the bill's Title on Modernizing Infrastructure and seek to eliminate regulatory delays blocking construction of hydropower projects and natural gas pipelines while preserving important environmental protections. Both drafts bolster the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's role as the lead agency in charge of the permitting processes and seek to hold all other agencies accountable to timely reviews.
"If ever there were such a thing as bipartisan energy sources, hydroelectric and natural gas would be at the top of the list, so I look forward to working with all of my colleagues to minimize the red tape and maximize the benefits of these two sources for the sake of affordable energy, the environment, national security, job creation, and economic growth," said Subcommittee Chairman Whitfield (R-KY).
Governor of Maine Paul LePage underscored the need for action to break the federal bureaucracy holding back important energy infrastructure. "Natural gas and hydropower can provide competitive and clean energy for our economy. We need infrastructure. We plead with you. From pipelines to transmission lines to take advantage of these plentiful resources. The people of New England want these projects done, but bureaucracy is preventing timely action. Bureaucracy has hijacked democracy," explained LePage. The Governor went on to describe how residents of Maine and other parts of New England are suffering from painfully energy high prices due to the region's inadequate pipeline capacity.
Donald Santa, President of the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America, explained, "The approval and permitting process for interstate natural gas pipelines has become increasingly challenging. While this remains a good, albeit complex, process, there have been some trends in the wrong direction. What was once orderly and predictable is now increasingly protracted and contentious." He urged Congress to address these permitting delays so all Americans can enjoy the benefits of our abundant resources. "Affordable natural gas makes the United States the envy of the world, but none of this is possible without the infrastructure -- the pipelines -- to deliver it," said Santa.
John Suloway, testifying for the National Hydropower Association, stressed the need for changes to the hydropower licensing process to unleash the potential for increased capacity of clean and affordable power. He applauded the hydropower discussion draft and said, "Authorizing FERC to establish and enforce an overall schedule will help keep the process on track and avoid delays that have been the status quo in this industry for decades. Requiring other agencies with review requirements to cooperate with FERC will create efficiencies, promote economy, reduce redundancies, and again reduce delays."
Randy Livingston, testifying for Pacific Gas and Electric Company, added, "There is no question that the Discussion Draft helps in many ways to significantly improve the efficiency of the federal regulatory processes surrounding hydropower licensing. In fact, PG&E believes it responsibly reduces regulatory uncertainty across the nation, without sacrificing protections for the environment or jeopardizing the integrity of the licensing process."
Full committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) concluded, "Hydropower and natural gas are both critical sources of energy and jobs in Michigan and across the country, but the federal process of licensing hydroelectric facilities and permitting interstate gas pipelines has grown far more cumbersome than necessary. The discussion drafts clear away the red tape and add increasing amounts of transparency so all stakeholders are aware of the process, which will help to pave the way for additional needed energy from these sources."

Source: http://energycommerce.house.gov/press-release/subenergypower-continues-build-architecture-abundance-focus-hydropower-and-natural-gas
