Public Statements
Governor LePage Announces Judicial Re-Appointments
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Feb. 23, 2015
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage today announced the re-appointments of four seated members of the District, Superior and Supreme Courts. Governor LePage re-nominated Richard Mulhern and Patricia Worth to District Court, Mary Michaela Murphy to Superior Court and Ellen Ann Gorman to Supreme Court.
"As Governor, I have the utmost respect and have been impressed with the high quality work of the Judicial Branch. In choosing judges, my focus is on the qualifications, demeanor, and integrity of the candidates, not politics. These nominees reflect those priorities," said Governor LePage. "I am confident that these reappointments will continue to live up to the high standards we expect from Maine judges."
Governor John Baldacci appointed Judge Richard Mulhern, a resident of Falmouth, to the District Court in 2007. Mulhern worked at Sulloway & Hollis, a private firm, prior to joining the Maine District Court. He is a graduate of the University of Maine Orono and the University of Maine School of Law.
Governor Angus King appointed Judge Patricia Worth, a resident of Belfast, to the District Court in 2000. Worth worked at Woodward Law Office prior to joining the Maine District Court. She has also served as Assistant District Attorney in Sagadahoc, Lincoln, Knox and Waldo Counties. Worth is a graduate of Boston University and the University of Maine School of Law.
Governor John Baldacci appointed Justice Mary Michaela Murphy, resident of Rome, to the Superior Court in 2007. Murphy was a partner at Jabar, Batten Ringer and Murphy prior to joining the Maine Superior Court. She is a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Maine School of Law.
Governor John Baldacci appointed Ellen Ann Gorman, Associate Justice of the Maine Supreme Judicial Court, resident of Portland, in 2007. Governor John McKernan and Governor Angus King previously appointed Gorman for the District Court and Superior Court. Prior to being seated on the bench she worked as Commissioner at the Maine Workers' Compensation Commission and in private practice at Richardson, Tyler & Troubh. She is a graduate of Trinity College and of Cornell Law School.
All Gubernatorial Judicial nominations will be heard by Judiciary Committee of the 127th Legislature and public hearings will be scheduled in the near term by the Committee.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=638332&v=article2011
