Public Statements
Governor LePage Nominates Brian Whitney to Lead Maine Technology Institute
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Feb. 20, 2015
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage today nominated Brian Whitney of Augusta to serve as Director of the Maine Technology Institute (MTI). Whitney, the Director of Business Development & Innovation for the Maine Department of Economic & Community Development (DECD) has been serving as Acting Director of MTI since August 2014.
"I am pleased to nominate Brian Whitney to direct MTI and to lead the organization's efforts to drive innovation and job growth in Maine," said Governor LePage. "In addition to his 10 years of experience in economic development at the state and federal level, and his deep knowledge of Maine's entrepreneurial ecosystem, Brian has had the unique opportunity to manage MTI for the past 6 months. We are looking forward to focusing on helping to create long-term jobs not only through research and development, but also by concentrating on commercialization."
Since 2012, Whitney has served as the Director of Business Development & Innovation at the Maine Department of Economic & Community Development (DECD). In this capacity, he manages the Governor's Account Executives - Maine's team of knowledgeable and professional economic development liaisons whose primary responsibility is to work one-on-one with businesses to help them succeed and grow.
In August 2014, Whitney also assumed the role of Acting Director of the Maine Technology Institute. He previously worked as the Director of Outreach and Economic Development for U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), as a Business Development Specialist at the Maine Department of Economic & Community Development, and as Chief of Staff to Maine's Senate President during the historic power-sharing arrangement in 2002. Whitney serves on the boards of the Maine Venture Fund, Maine Economic Growth Council, Maine Innovation Economy Advisory Board, State Workforce Investment Board, and the Economic Development Council of Maine.

Source:
