Public Statements
Governor Congratulates McLean as Commissioner of Public Utilities Commission
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Jan. 29, 2015
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage congratulated today Carlisle McLean, as Commissioner of the Maine Public Utilities Commission (MPUC). The Maine State Senate unanimously approved McLean who will join current Commissioners David Littell and Mark Vannoy.
"I want to thank the Senate for its swift approval of Carlie, who over the past four years as a member of my senior staff earned the respect from legislators on both sides of the aisle," said Governor LePage. "She has been an invaluable asset and I have the utmost confidence she will continue to serve the citizens of the State of Maine with integrity and professionalism."
Today's endorsement from the Senate will allow McLean to fill a two-year term. Last week the Energy, Utilities and Technology Committee unanimously approved McLean.
"I am honored to have been confirmed by the Maine Senate. I will strive to fulfill the public trust placed in me as a Commissioner of PUC and look forward to tackling some of the major energy issues facing the State of Maine," McLean.
Since 2013 Carlisle McLean has served as Chief Counsel and has previously served as General Counsel and Senior Natural Resources Policy Advisor in the Office of the Governor. Prior to joining the Office of the Governor, McLean practiced law with Preti Flaherty law firm from 2005 to 2011 handling matters ranging from permitting and compliance of energy and development permits, to obtaining LURC rezoning and development permits, to handling negotiations and settlements at Superfund Sites throughout New England and nationally.
Previously, McLean worked with the Yale Center for Environmental Policy, Trustees for Alaska, the New York State Office of Attorney General, the Pace Land Use Law Center and Freehills Law Firm in Sydney, Australia.
McLean has been an active member of the Maine and American Bar Associations since 2005 and has held leadership positions with both organizations. She earned her Juris Doctor/Master of Environmental Management from Pace University School of Law and Yale University School of Forestry. She earned her Bachelor of Science degree from Bates College.
Maine Public Utilities Commissioner Thomas Welch, who was also Chairman and Maine's representative to the New England States Committee on Electricity (NESCOE), has chosen to resign from his post effectively opening a position for commissioner. Governor LePage announced on December 30, 2014 that he was appointing Commissioner Mark Vannoy as Chairman to replace Welch. Patrick Woodcock, the Director of the Governor's Energy Office, will serve as Maine's representative to NESCOE.
The MPUC regulates electric, natural gas, telecommunications and water utilities to ensure that Maine consumers enjoy safe, adequate and reliable services at rates that are just and reasonable for both consumers and utilities. The Commission oversees emerging competitive markets for some of these services. The Commission also regulates water taxis and ferries in Casco Bay, and promotes safe digging through the Dig Safe underground utility damage prevention program.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=636632&v=article2011
