Public Statements
Radio Address: Smarter, Smaller Government Begins with a Plan
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: Jan. 20, 2015
Location: Unknown

We must be smart about investing in Maine's economy. By smart, we must have a strategy about how and why we do what we do as a State.
Hello, this is Governor Paul LePage.
As a businessman, I consulted for a number of companies needing to improve financial stability. I was able to help a many of those businesses get back on track by creating a realistic plan toward solvency.
Recently, one of the most efficient agencies within our Administration rolled out a two-billion dollar Work Plan that will help Maine's economy tremendously.
The Maine Department of Transportation saves millions of taxpayer dollars every year, but continues to maintain and improve roads, bridges, ports and rails providing the infrastructure needed for state, interstate and international trade to be successful and profitable.
This Work Plan prioritizes the immediate needs of the state, and the professionals have set these priorities, not the politicians.
It includes more than 1,900 work items over the three years, creating thousands of jobs in the construction industry.
I am proud of Commissioner Dave Bernhardt and his staff at Maine DOT for their hard work and dedication on behalf of their customers--the people of Maine.
At a time when Washington continues to flat fund transportation, we as a State need to be innovative, effective and efficient.
We need to be creative, and we need to stretch the dollar to meet transportation goals each year and that's exactly what we are doing.
As your Governor, I want Mainers to prosper. I want poverty as a thing of the past. For this to happen, government must become more efficient.
In four years, we have demonstrated that you can do more with less when you are willing to make tough decisions and change can be good.
We have paid off Maine's welfare debt, put millions back in the Rainy Day Fund, and cut government waste. All of which has led to an improvement of the State's credit rating.
These things have a direct link to the State's ability to get a better return on our investment, for instance, when we go to sell bonds for transportation projects and otherwise. But without a plan, we cannot move forward.
Margaret Thatcher probably said it best when she said, "Plan your work for today and every day, then work your plan."
And that's exactly what we will continue to do for all Mainers.
Thanks for listening.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=635835&v=article
