Public Statements
Radio Address: It Is Time to Take Bold Action for Maine
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: Jan. 2, 2015
Location: Augusta, ME

Politicians in Augusta are saying they want to focus on job creation and the economy. While late to the game, we're glad they're finally ready to work on what is really important to Maine people.
Hello, this is Governor Paul LePage.
Our administration has been working every day for the past four years to help the private sector create jobs and grow the economy. We hope politicians are serious about wanting to join our effort.
We hope stunts like selling the Blaine House and taking away the Governor's pension are a thing of the past.
We now have the opportunity to work together to move Maine forward. We have made some modest progress to make the state more business friendly by reducing the income tax, eliminating red tape and halting the growth of the welfare system.
Our efforts helped the private sector create 20,000 jobs. Almost 7,000 positions are still open on the Maine Job Bank. Our unemployment rate is down, and our economy is growing.
We need to create even more jobs, and we need our economy to grow faster. We need to keep our graduates in Maine. But it will take more than a couple of years to see major progress in making Maine more competitive on a global scale.
If we want to attract and retain companies that provide good-paying career jobs for our families, we must show them that Maine is a competitive place to do business. Our modest improvements are just the first step. Now it is time be bold and transform Maine.
We must take decisive action to show the nation--and the world--that Maine is serious about welcoming business and improving its economy. In today's global economy, companies can set up in any state or any country. We must give them a compelling reason to come to Maine.
The states that are growing the fastest have the lowest tax rates and the lowest energy costs. That is no coincidence.
Some of those states have experienced boom years from the oil and gas industry. Others have mild climates in which heating and electricity costs in the winter months are much lower than Maine's.
We have made strides in promoting industries such as bio-tech, international shipping and mining.
But to compete with the fast-growing states, Maine must get even more aggressive in its efforts to recruit and retain companies. This will take all hands on deck.
Our education system must produce students who have the skills businesses need. Our tax structure must be very attractive to companies and Maine residents.
Our electricity and heating costs must be affordable for businesses and home owners. Our infrastructure must be able to move goods at the speed of business.
We are ready to take bold action. We are ready to tell the world that Maine is truly open for business.
We will lay out a broad vision for the next four years at the Inauguration on January 7. You are all invited to attend. But you must register.
To get your free tickets, please go to LePageInaugural2015.com. I hope to see you there.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=634495&v=article
