Public Statements
Governor LePage Nominates Richard Rosen to Serve as Commission of Finance & Administration
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Jan. 2, 2015
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage today announced the nomination of the Honorable Richard W. Rosen to serve as commissioner of the Maine Department of Administrative and Financial Services (DAFS). The nomination is subject to the confirmation process by the Joint Standing Committee on Appropriations and Financial Affairs and the Maine Senate.
Rosen, a native of Bucksport, has been serving as acting commissioner of DAFS since the retirement of former Commissioner H. Sawin Millett, Jr. in May. Prior to his appointment as acting commissioner, he served as the Department's deputy commissioner of finance.
Previously, Rosen served as the director of the Governor's Office of Policy and Management. During the 125th Legislature, he served as the Senate Chair of Appropriations and Financial Affairs Committee. He served as a senator representing parts of Hancock and Penobscot Counties for four terms and as a member of the Maine House of Representatives for three terms, accumulating extensive legislative expertise in budget, tax, energy, and health and human services.
"I am pleased to nominate Richard Rosen to serve as commissioner of the Department of Administrative and Financial Services. For the last seven months, he has led DAFS through many important initiatives, including the development of my upcoming biennial budget. Richard is a dedicated public servant, and he will continue to serve the people of Maine well as commissioner," said Governor LePage.
"I am honored to have been nominated by Governor LePage to serve as commissioner," said Acting Commissioner Rosen. "DAFS is a dynamic organization with a broad scope of responsibility, and I look forward to continuing our important work on behalf of the Governor and the citizens of Maine."
In addition to his public service, Rosen owned and operated Rosen's, a department store located in Bucksport, with his wife, Kimberley, for more than 35 years. He is a graduate of the University of Maine and serves on the boards of the Retail Association of Maine, Bucksport Regional Health Center, and Northeast Historic Film.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=634494&v=article2011
