Public Statements
Radio Address: Maine's Winter Season Keeps Mainers Active and State Economy Healthy
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Dec. 23, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Hello, this is Governor Paul LePage.
Bangor just recorded the snowiest November on record with a monthly total of nearly 26 inches. That beats the previous record set back in 1962. All that snow is a welcome sign for our economy.
Last year, nearly five-and-a-half million people visited Maine during the winter season, many to enjoy the outdoors. According to the Maine Office of Tourism, the 2013-2014 season saw an increase over the previous season in the number of overnight visitors from New England. This helps thousands of businesses -- both big and small.
There is no shortage of activities during the winter months. We have some of the best skiing in New England, and Maine is the premiere snowmobiling destination in the Northeast. We also have some of the most beautiful state parks, which remain open all-year long.
To ring in the New Year, the Bureau of Parks and Lands will sponsor free, guided hikes in five state parks throughout Maine on New Year's Day. It's part of "America's State Parks First Day Hikes" initiative.
For a list of participating state parks, visit maine.gov and search for "First Day Hikes."
If you're like one of the thousands of snowmobilers across the State, you now have a trail system that includes more than 14,000 miles to ride. Private landowners and the hard work of the Maine Snowmobile Association's 289 clubs helped to create the14,500-mile trail system.
Last year 82,000 snowmobiles were registered in Maine, with 25 percent of those belonging to people from out of state.
For racing enthusiasts, we have an exciting event coming to Bangor with top snowmobile racers from around the world. International SnoCross will be held at Bass Park on January 10 and 11.
SnoCross is described as "NASCAR on snow," and we expect it to draw a lot of attention. For tickets go to Eastern Maine Community College Foundation's website. emccfoundation.org
Not only will it be a great event to watch, but it is also supports our youth in technical career fields. Some of the proceeds from ticket sales will help the Eastern Maine Community College Foundation, which connects students with local job opportunities.
The estimated economic value of snowmobiling in Maine alone is $350 million annually and provides the equivalent of 2,200 full-time jobs.
Together, snowmobiling and skiing represent $625 million in economic activity.
So, while we are hoping for a white Christmas, we also hope the snow keeps falling to generate some more green for our businesses and our State.
Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays everyone!

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=634158&v=article
