Public Statements
Governor LePage Recognizes Maine Army National Guard for "Excellence in Facilities Programs"
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Nov. 17, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage is commending state and federal employees from the Maine Army National Guard for being named the best installation management program in the United States. Recognizing Maine's achievement of environmental quality, fiscal management and installation readiness, the National Guard Bureau announced the prestigious Fred Aron Award for Excellence in Facilities Programs.
"The Maine Army National Guard has always exemplified excellence in its quality of work, and this award is an acknowledgement that Maine is the best compared to other states and territories," said Governor LePage. "The importance of fiscal stewardship is critical, and the MEARNG has demonstrated there are always way to improve programs by managing resources better. More importantly, this can be done without losing quality of service. All of the men and women of the Maine Army National Guard should be proud of their efforts. I congratulate and thank each of you for your service."
The Directorate of Facilities Engineering was awarded the Fred Aron Award, which rates the performance of the 54 states and territories in eight areas including financial management, energy conservation and security.
"This is an unprecedented accomplishment for a state to win back-to-back awards. I am very proud of your hard work and well-deserved recognition by senior leaders at the national level," said Brig. Gen. James D. Campbell, Adjutant General.
The Directorate of Facilities Engineering also received the Environmental Award for Installations, Environmental Quality, Non-Industrial, for focusing on how to save taxpayer dollars while protecting and preserving Maine's pristine environment.
"This is not just an award for any one individual," said Lt. Col. Greg Leimbach, the resource manager for the Directorate of Facilities Engineering. "This goes to show how the directorate functions together like a team. This award not only shows the effectiveness of the relationships we have built, but also the quality of our work."
Whether they are trying to protect endangered specials, protect forestlands, improve wastewater treatment, prevent damage to historic sites or improve water usage, the Maine National Guard has found innovative and cost-effective mechanisms that support their efforts in these environmental programs.
"Not only are these back-to-back awards, but it is highly unusual for a state to receive two awards of this caliber in the same year," said Governor LePage. "It is an exciting accomplishment for Maine."
During the ceremony, the Governor presented each employee with an U.S. flag pin in the shape of Maine as a token of his gratitude of the hard-working men and women who serve the taxpayers of Maine.
The event was held in the Cabinet Room and attended by several senior staff members of the Maine Army National Guard and state employees from the Directorate of Facilities Engineering from Camp Keyes in Augusta.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=631713&v=article2011
