Public Statements
Governor LePage Issues Statement About Healthcare Worker in Fort Kent Who Worked in West Africa
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Oct. 29, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage issued a statement Wednesday morning about a healthcare worker who had been quarantined in New Jersey and is now in Fort Kent still under voluntary quarantine.
"We commend all healthcare workers for their humanitarian work in West Africa and other regions in the world, and we are proud that Americans are always ready to help others," said Governor LePage. "However, the healthcare worker who is in Fort Kent has been unwilling to follow the protocols set forth by the Maine CDC and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control for medical workers who have been in contact with Ebola patients."
"We hoped that the healthcare worker would voluntarily comply with these protocols, but this individual has stated publicly she will not abide by the protocols," Governor LePage said. "We are very concerned about her safety and health and that of the community. We are exploring all of our options for protecting the health and well-being of the healthcare worker, anyone who comes in contact with her, the Fort Kent community and all of Maine. While we certainly respect the rights of one individual, we must be vigilant in protecting 1.3 million Mainers, as well as anyone who visits our great state."
Upon learning the healthcare worker intends to defy the protocols, the Office of the Governor has been working collaboratively with the State health officials within the Department of Health and Human Services to seek legal authority to enforce the quarantine.
Governor LePage and the Maine CDC have been following the care and movements of the healthcare worker since Monday. The Maine State Police will monitor the residence in Fort Kent where the healthcare worker is staying, for both her protection and the health of the community.
To protect privacy and security, neither this person's identity nor the location of quarantine will be released by the state.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=630428&v=article2011
