Public Statements
Governor Urges Caution During Nor'easter
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Oct. 22, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage is urging all Mainers to stay safe and be aware of changing weather conditions as Maine experiences a slow-moving Nor'easter through Friday.
"Maine is in for some wild weather over the next couple of days, but it's nothing we can't handle," said Governor LePage. "We are urging everyone to stay aware of weather conditions and respect any road or beach closures."
The Governor also reminded everyone of the importance of using generators safely during possible power outages.
Heavy rain will fall from this evening into Thursday. Rainfall totals from this event will range from 2 to 4 inches with locally higher amounts possible. A Flood Watch is in place for much of Maine throughout this period. This heavy rainfall will lead to some significant rises on local rivers and streams.
Water in some smaller streams and brooks could reach near the tops of their banks. Beach erosion and splash-over is possible around high tide due to wave action. A Gale Warning is in effect for coastal areas with forecasted wind gusts of 45 mph along the coast.
"Think safety," Governor LePage said. "Pay attention to the weather." Stay tuned to all weather warnings and advisories for your area. All National Weather Service watches and warnings are available at MEMA's website: http://www.maine.gov/mema/weather/watch_warn.htm.
"Drive safely," Governor LePage said. "Travel conditions will be hazardous in many areas throughout the next few days."
Strong winds can make driving difficult, especially for high profile vehicles. Fallen leaves and rain may lead to slippery conditions.
Leaves blocking drains and culverts may also aggravate street flooding. High winds may bring down limbs, debris and power lines across roadways. Heavy rain may cause unexpected ponding or flooding on roadways.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=629956&v=article2011
