Public Statements
Media Advisory: Governor LePage to Announce New England Ocean Cluster House in Portland
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Oct. 15, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage will announce the successful establishment of the New England Ocean Cluster in Portland, Maine. The Iceland Ocean Cluster led by Thor Sigfusson, has partnered with North Atlantic Assets and Soli DG, Inc. of Maine to establish the New England Ocean Cluster and New England Ocean Cluster House.
"I'm proud of the partnership the State has made with Iceland during the last 10 months. Portland is the single-best geographical point to expand and invest in their Ocean Cluster House model in the United States," said Governor LePage who traveled to Iceland on a trade mission in June of this year. "It speaks volumes to the entrepreneurial culture of Maine and to our economic development and ocean resources in the State. Maine is without a doubt, the best fit for this business."
This private sector enterprise is focused on commercialization of new products related to the Ocean as a resource. The goal of the cluster is to create, encourage and spinoff new companies and products with cluster members with the goal of utilizing 100% of materials being harvested from the ocean, while focusing on higher and higher margins. Companies engaged in the New England Ocean Cluster will be focused on a diverse array of industry opportunities such as food processing, boat building, energy production, fishing, aquaculture, biotech, biomedical, pharmaceuticals, advanced materials, retail products, health and wellness, marine technology, applied science and many others.
Thor Sigfusson of the Iceland Ocean Cluster and Patrick Arnold of Soli DG, Inc will be on hand to discuss details of the New England Ocean Cluster, what it means for Maine and New England and what the next steps will occur as the operations develop.
WHEN: 9:30 a.m., Thursday, October 16, 2014
WHERE: Pierce Atwood, 254 Commercial Street, 5th Floor (Conference Center), Portland

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=629538&v=article2011
