Public Statements
Governor LePage Visits the Jackson Laboratory Highlighting Its Investment in Maine
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Oct. 10, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage toured The Jackson Laboratory for an update on recent physical plant improvements and construction projects underway on the Bar Harbor campus. Those projects included the renovation of the Snell Research Building, the new chiller plant and the pellet boiler.
"The Jackson Laboratory showcases Maine's global competitiveness in bio-medical research and technology while highlighting local investment in our people and products," said Governor Paul R. LePage. "They hire a world-class workforce, keeping young Mainers here and attracting others to move here. With 1,300 employees and nearly 100 open positions, they offer excellent career possibilities to Maine workers."
These projects represent a major investment in the Bar Harbor campus, with the Snell building undergoing an $8.7 million renovation and the nearly completed chiller plant representing a $3.58 million investment. Completed in 2011, the $4.4 million biomass boiler is evidence of the Laboratory's efforts to operate in an efficient and environmentally friendly manner. The consumption of wood pellets at this facility pumps nearly $2.5 million a year into the state's wood-products industry. These projects represent hundreds of direct and indirect jobs for Maine's people.
Within the next five years, The Jackson Laboratory expects to increase its employee base from 1,300 to 1,500 employees and its economic impact in the state of Maine from $380 million to $500 million. The Jackson Laboratory has been a pioneer in genetic research in Maine for 85 years.
"Demand in the world scientific community to understand the precise genetic causes of disease is strong and growing" said JAX CEO Edison Liu. "That demand ensures a bright future for JAX -- in fact, we're just hitting our stride on the Bar Harbor campus!"
Governor LePage stated, "This morning I was in Baileyville at Woodland Pulp participating in a groundbreaking ceremony for their two new St. Croix tissue machines--a terrific example of a traditional Maine industry that has modernized. Here at The Jackson Laboratory I've seen the work of an innovative Maine industry that is responding to demand in the global market and making significant capital investments that will grow our skilled workforce. Maine is a global competitor in both our traditional industries and those operating on the cutting edge. "

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=629417&v=article2011
