Public Statements
Maine Celebrates Manufacturing Day
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Oct. 1, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage issued a proclamation recognizing October as "Manufacturing Month" in Maine in conjunction with National Manufacturing Day on October 3.
"The manufacturing sector continues to play a vital role in Maine's economy," said Governor LePage. "Many people are under the false impression that manufacturing in Maine down when in fact it has been revolutionized. Manufacturing today is highly automated, with jobs that require skilled workers who can use computers and robots as well as make recommendations for process improvements. Our natural resources and workforce are attracting new industries and creating jobs. In order to call attention to these opportunities, I have extended our recognition of our manufacturers throughout the month."
Maine is highlighting Manufacturing Day on Friday with several events, including plant tours hosted by 24 manufacturers, including the Maine Manufacturing Extension Partnership's presentation of the Manufacturing Excellence Award at Huhtamaki. A list of the plants hosting tours is available at http://www.mainemfg.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/MFGDAY2014-Event-List-with-Contact.pdf.
"I have spent time over the past several weeks visiting businesses that are expanding manufacturing in Maine, including Lincoln Logs and Jotul stoves," the Governor noted. "Mainers should take pride in the quality of our workforce and our ability to attract manufacturers in the aerospace, wood products, food processing, and healthcare industries, for example. The Maine work ethic and the quality of our products appeal to both businesses and consumers. I look forward to more good manufacturing news for Mainers in the weeks and months to come."
Maine has nearly 1800 manufacturing business establishments that produced approximately $5.6 billion dollars in output in 2013--about 10 percent of the state's total GDP. The manufacturing sector provides 50,300 jobs statewide; it had a payroll of $2.6 billion in 2013, accounting for 13 percent of wages paid in the state. National Manufacturing Day is co-produced by the Fabricators and Manufacturers Association, International, the National Association of Manufacturers, the Manufacturing Institute and the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership and Industrial Strength Marketing in Nashville. To learn more about Manufacturing Day, log on to http://www.mfgday.com. In Maine, the event is sponsored in part by the Maine Manufacturing Association, http://www.mainemfg.com.

Source:
