Public Statements
LePage Administration, Volunteers Kick-off State Charitable Campaign
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Sept. 23, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Highlighting the importance of giving back, Governor Paul R. LePage and Maine Department of Labor Commissioner Jeanne Paquette are calling on State employees and retirees to raise $300,000 through the 35th annual Maine State Employees' Combined Charitable Appeal.
Governor LePage and Commissioner Paquette, who is serving as chair of the 2014 MSECCA campaign, kicked-off the initiative today in the Hall of Flags at the State House in Augusta.
Department leaders and volunteers from State agencies who will encourage colleagues to contribute to the three-month campaign joined Governor LePage and Commissioner Paquette. Representatives from the 18 federations -- which includes the state's United Ways -- also attended.
"For thirty-five years, Maine State employees and retirees have shown their generosity by contributing to MSECCA. This tradition of generosity has made a lasting and tremendous impact in the lives of our local community as well as across our nation and beyond. We in Maine are always willing to comfort and give a hand up to those in need. As Maine employees, we work together to make a difference and strengthen our beautiful state," said Governor LePage.
During its 35-year history, about $8 million has been raised through MSECCA, making it one of Maine's most meaningful workplace giving campaigns. Last year, State workers and retirees showed their collaborative commitment to their communities by contributing almost $300,000 through one-time gifts or scheduled payroll/retirement deductions. Hundreds of charities are affiliated with the campaign through participating federations, but donors can also direct monetary gifts to an organization of their choice not listed.
"No matter the size of the individual gift made by current and former Maine State employees through MSECCA, they add up. It's about Mainers helping Mainers," said Commissioner Paquette. "We extend a huge thank you to the state employees who not only serve the citizens of Maine in their public duties but also extend that extra compassion to neighbors in need."
Two guests from local non-profits spoke to the attendees, explaining the value of the support they receive from appeals such as MSECCA.
Nancy Provost, the abuse prevention educator at Family Violence Project for southern Kennebec County, teaches prevention programs to students from pre-K through grade 12. She covers more than 30 local schools and teaches at least 3,000 students each year.
Provost stated, "The issue of domestic violence knows no boundaries. Teaching children the fundamentals about healthy vs. unhealthy relationships is the first step in helping them become healthy adults. The support we receive from the United Way and the local school districts allow us to get the message out there that it takes the whole community to end domestic violence. Everyone can be part of the solution."
Jeffery Johnson currently serves as the Executive Director of the Children's Center, an organization that provides services to children and their families, primarily to those with disabilities. Johnson stated, "We provide supports and services to young children with disabilities  many of them with profound disabilities. Some of the services we provide to children are not funded but are essential. Thankfully, the United Way helps fund some of these children. The United Way is there for them and their families, and the Children's Center couldn't be more grateful."
Beginning today, State employees are able to contribute to the 2014 campaign online at www.maine.gov/msecca. The campaign concludes in mid-December.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=628467&v=article2011
