Public Statements
Honoring Maine's Veteran's on POW/MIA Recognition Day
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Sept. 18, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

First Lady Ann M. LePage will welcome hundreds of military family members of Prisoners of War and Missing in Action (POW/MIA) veterans at Old Orchard Beach Baseball Park as part of the Maine Heroes Fund recognition weekend. The event begins Saturday, September 20, 2014 at the Ballpark located in Old Orchard Beach beginning at 9:30 a.m.
"Maine has a long and strong military heritage to be proud of so making sure to honor our prisoners of war and to remember those still missing in action is critical," Mrs. LePage said. "Our veterans and their families truly hold a special place in my heart, which is why I'm always so honored to be a part of ceremonies like this one."
Governor Paul R. LePage has signed a proclamation declaring September 19, 2014 as POW/MIA Recognition Day throughout the State of Maine. POW/MIA Recognition Day honors this Nation's prisoners of war; those still missing and their families; and highlights the government's commitment to account for them. There are over 500 citizens of Maine who remain unaccounted for as a result of their valiant service to this Country.
"Maine is proud that 140,000 veterans call this State home," the Governor said. "They served us well and many sacrificed a great deal to protect our country. This weekend we take time to recognize our veterans whose lives have been forever changed as a Prisoner of War or remain Missing in Action."
Founded by Russell Warriner and the POW/MIA Recognition Weekend Committee, The Maine Heroes Fund hosts the POW/MIA Recognition Weekend to honor veterans and their families for their sacrifices to their country. The weekend will also serve as a fundraiser to help veterans in need. In previous years, funds raised went to help the Wounded Heroes of Maine Fund.
First Lady LePage has chosen to support Maine's military service members and hopes Mainers will consider attending this weekend's event.
"It is important to honor the men and women in uniform who defend our freedom," said Mrs. LePage. "This weekend's event gives us an opportunity to remember the more than 500 Maine citizens who honorably served their country and remain unaccounted for as a POW or MIA. These heroes deserve our respect, and we continue to strive to learn the truth about every missing American."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=628244&v=article2011
