Public Statements
Governor LePage and First Lady to Attend 9/11 Remembrance Ceremonies
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Sept. 10, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage and First Lady Ann M. LePage will pay tribute Thursday to those who lost their lives on September 11, 2001 and in the ensuing conflicts by attending remembrance ceremonies in Auburn and Freeport.
Governor LePage will speak at the remembrance ceremony in Auburn, which begins at 8:30 a.m. at the Central Fire Station on Minot Avenue, and the First Lady will attend a special ceremony at 9:30 a.m. in Freeport at the corner of West Street and Main Street.
"On this solemn day, we remember the lives of those lost, pay tribute to those who rose in service and honor those who continue to serve our country today, including veterans, soldiers, military families and first responders," said Governor LePage. "Remembering them through community service will also help to ensure that we never forget the remarkable way Americans responded."
Additionally, the Governor is recognizing September 11, 2014 as a "Day of Service and Remembrance" and highlighting opportunities to serve in communities throughout to honor those lost on September 11, 2001. In issuing a proclamation to mark the observance, Governor LePage emphasized the significance of service as a way to pay tribute to the thousands of individuals, families and communities directly impacted by the terrorist attacks.
The Governor and First Lady would like to recognize and thank Maine's first responders for their daily service, as well as for the acts of heroism they regularly perform. "While remembering those lost on 9/11, we should also recall the incredible courage displayed that day and use the anniversary to express our appreciation to all police officers, firefighters, emergency medical personnel and those serving in the military," said First Lady Ann LePage.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=627801&v=article2011
