Public Statements
Governor LePage Announces $19 Million Contract Awarded to Maine Military Authority
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: June 19, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage and the Maine Military Authority are pleased to announce the award of a $19 million military contract, which will preserve and create good-paying career opportunities for the people of Northern Maine.
The Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority Board of Directors this week unanimously approved the award of a contract to the Maine Military Authority in Limestone for the mid-life overhaul of 32 Dual Mode Articulated NEOPLAN Buses.
The $19 million award to MMA marks the culmination of years of strategic and deliberate planning to gain access to new markets as military budgets decline. The contract could likely increase to $24 million as optional and additional tasks are requested.
"I appreciate the hard work of MMA in securing this contract, which will sustain and grow good career jobs for the citizens of Aroostook County," said Governor LePage. "During the last couple of years, it has been exciting to see MMA successfully transition into the bus refurbishment market. It's this type of strategic action and partnering with the state and federal governments that have strengthened the economic opportunities in the region."
In 2012 MMA completed a major renovation of its facilities specifically designed to support large and over-sized vehicles. That same year, MMA coordinated with the LePage Administration and entered the bus refurbishment market, launching its School Bus Refurbishment Program. Since 2012, MMA has successfully developed an end-of-life rebuild program for Para-Transit (shuttle) buses and a mid-life overhaul for mass transit buses. Without these strategic actions, MMA would have lacked the history of performance required to win the MBTA project.
According to MMA spokesman Tim McCabe, "The rehabilitation of these buses will increase its service life expectancy by an additional 6 years beyond it intended life of 12 years. Our process is extremely thorough and painstaking. These buses will be rehabilitated with the same dedication and workmanship as we have for all the military vehicles we have produced for our National Guard Soldiers."
The DMA bus is a "dual mode" bus. It is powered by a diesel engine for part of its route and a traditional electric-powered trolley for part of its route. It is a one-of-a-kind dual bus/trolley and one of the most complex systems in North America. MMA has teamed with SKODA Electric, the original equipment manufacturer of the electric propulsion system, to form a team capable of this demanding project.
The mass transit overhaul/rebuild market is growing, and MMA has the talented personnel and facilities to achieve significant market share. MMA will continue to leverage its vast experience refurbishing military and mass transit vehicles to develop new opportunities to expand employment at its facility located in Limestone.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=622322&v=article2011
