Public Statements
Unemployment Rate: 5.7 Percent in April
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: May 16, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Paul R. LePage released a statement today about the unemployment rate for April, which was 5.7 percent, the lowest since September 2008. The employment-to-population ratio remains the highest since November 2008, which points to another positive trend under the LePage Administration.
"Thousands more people are working in the private sector now than when I took office," said Governor LePage. "But we must continue our efforts to transform Maine from a high-tax state with a large welfare population to a low-tax, business-friendly state that encourages companies to create good-paying career jobs for Maine families."
"Our efforts to employ more people within our state, such as my Administration's welfare-to-work initiatives, are helping Mainers get jobs. With about 8,000 jobs available on the Maine Job Bank, it is evident that work is available."
"However, Maine's aging population presents a challenge to economic and job growth. We have to bring more companies with good-paying jobs to our state, which will help attract and retain more young people and families. That's why we proposed Open for Business zones, which would have enticed large companies that offer high-paying career jobs to Maine. But the Democrats pursued an aggressive, anti-business agenda this legislative session. They even prevented teens from getting jobs in movie theatres and bowling alleys."
The preliminary seasonally adjusted unemployment rate estimate was 5.7 percent in April, down from 5.9 percent in March and 6.8 percent one year ago. The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimated the number of unemployed declined 7,400 over the year to 40,500.
The share of the population that is employed remained at 61.8 percent, well above the U.S. average of 58.9 percent. April was the 79th consecutive month the employment-to-population ratio was above the national average.
Meanwhile, Maine's Job Bank, at www.mainecareercenter.com, continues to increase its number of job listings with 8,000 jobs available for applicants. The Job Bank, a service of the Maine Department of Labor, is an online job board that is free for both employers and job seekers.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=620379&v=article2011
