Public Statements
Governor LePage Designates $10,000 In Contingency Funds For Veterans Memorial
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: May 6, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor LePage has designated $10,000 from his contingency funds to support the construction of a veterans memorial in Fort Fairfield. The initiative is led by VFW Post 6187 which has donated the land next to their building for the future placement of the memorial.
"The sacrifices of Maine's veterans mean so much to my family," said Governor LePage. "To Ann and me, there is no greater satisfaction than honoring our military heros. Our history demonstrates that Maine Soldiers have always answered the call and bring a traditional Maine work ethic to the fight. I appreciate the dedication that has gone into the building of this memorial, ensuring that our veterans will never be forgotten."
The memorial will include ten flag poles and seven granite stones -- one for every war, for a total of six, and an additional stone representing a vow to never forget our veterans.
"From all the veterans of VFW Post 6187 in Fort Fairfield, we thank the Governor for his support for the veterans," said John Holschuh, memorial chairman. "A lot of Veterans in Aroostook County need to be recognized and remembered for the sacrifices they gave to this nation."
Just in front of the flag poles and stones is space dedicated to the laying of 2,100 brick pavers with veterans' names. The memorial will also include four granite benches from which visitors will be able to view the flags, stones, and bricks.
"Freedom is not free," said Holschuh. "It is only with the sacrifices made by current and former service men and women that allow us to live the American way of life. These honored veterans and their sacrifices need to be remembered. They want to be able to point to a brick engraved with their name, or a relative's name, and tell their children about the person and their sacrifices made."
Anyone who is interested in purchase of a brick paver on which to have a veteran's name engraved should contact VFW Post 6187 at 130 Presque Isle Street, Fort Fairfield, Maine.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=619869&v=article2011
