Public Statements
Governor Highlights "Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day"
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: April 24, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

The LePage Administration today participated in Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day with hundreds youngsters joining Governor Paul R. LePage at the State House for a special ceremony. Governor LePage spoke with nearly 200 girls and boys, varying in ages from 9 to 15, encouraging them to take the opportunity to learn more about state government.
"I hope each of you has the opportunity to explore what types of career paths are available in state government," said the Governor. "For those interested in biology, accounting, education and much more, there is something for you in one of our many state departments and agencies."
For more than 20 years, individuals, families, organizations and workplaces have joined in Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day to broaden career opportunities of millions of girls and boys.
"As children begin to think about their future career paths, it's important for parents, mentors and teachers to provide them ways to learn what they are most passionate about. One of the best gifts we can give our children is someone who can show them their potential and let them know that a job can be something they love to do," said Governor LePage.
Staff of the Office of the Governor and their children had an opportunity to meet with Governor LePage; receive a State House tour; interview staff members; and have lunch with the Governor and First Lady Ann LePage at the Blaine House. During the afternoon, Molly McGough, Vanessa Steele, Jacob Nass and Katelin Bennett assisted the Governor's communications team in writing this news release by offering quotes of their own:
"I loved meeting with people who are passionate about their jobs and politics. Today inspired me to pursue a career as a politician," said Molly McGough, 14, daughter of Chief of Staff John McGough. "I really enjoyed having lunch and speaking with the Governor and First Lady at the Blaine House. We were also given a tour, and I learned about the history of the mansion," said Vanessa Steele, 10, daughter of Communications Director Peter Steele.
"I learned that government is very big and there is lots of work to do," said Jacob Nass, 9, son of Senior Policy Advisor Jonathan Nass. "It was good to be with my Dad and see how he helps the Governor," Jacob added.
"Today was an informative day. I think a quality needed when working in government is patience, especially when dealing with the media and answering all of their questions," said Katelin Bennett, 14, daughter of Press Secretary Adrienne Bennett. "It was also fun seeing the different jobs that people have and learning about what they do on a daily basis."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=619146&v=article2011
