Public Statements
Economy Continues to Strengthen Under LePage Leadership; More than 17,000 Private Sector Jobs Created
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: April 18, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Under leadership of Governor Paul R. LePage, workforce conditions in Maine continue to improve. The March unemployment rate of 5.9 percent released Friday morning demonstrates significant job growth in a variety of private sectors, meaning thousands more Mainers are working.
The number of private sector jobs is up 9,100 over the past year, primarily in professional & business services, retail trade, leisure & hospitality, education & healthcare, and financial activities. Government jobs are down 1,100. About 17,500 jobs have spurred Maine's economy since Governor LePage took office in 2011, which may be attributed to common-sense, business-friendly economic policies supported by the LePage Administration.
"We have 17,500 more jobs in the private sector now than when I took office," said Governor LePage. "Our Administration is focused on helping to create jobs through reducing taxes, limiting the size of government and reforming our welfare system. We have made progress, even without liberals onboard with these policies. However, just think of where we would be if they were truly committed to the same goal. Improving the economy is not political. It's about putting more Mainers back to work, which is good for everyone."
The unemployment rate of 5.9 percent is down from 6.1 percent in February and 6.8 percent one year ago. The number of unemployed declined 6,700 over the year to 41,800.
Meanwhile, Maine's Job Bank, at www.mainecareercenter.com, continues to increase its number of job listings with more than 7,500 available for applicants. The Job Bank, a service of the Maine Department of Labor, is an online job board that is free for both employers and job seekers.
"Employers and job seekers all over Maine are connecting through the Maine Job Bank," said Governor LePage. "Job openings will become more competitive as our unemployment rate continues to fall. Now is the time to take advantage of this tool in your job search."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=618836&v=article2011
