Public Statements
Maine's Job Bank Surpasses 7,500 Real, Local Jobs
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: April 16, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Maine's Job Bank, at www.mainecareercenter.com, continues to increase its number of job listings with more than 7,500 available for applicants. The Job Bank, a service of the Maine Department of Labor, is an online job board that is free for both employers and job seekers.
"Employers and job seekers all over Maine are connecting through the Maine Job Bank," said Governor Paul R. LePage. "Job openings will become more competitive as our unemployment rate continues to fall.
Now is the time to take advantage of this tool in your job search." Last week, Assistance Plus was one of hundreds of Maine employers who posted jobs with the job bank. The social services and medical agency currently has openings in behavioral health management, personal support specialist, nursing and for licensed mental health counselors.
The Maine Job Bank includes a custom matching system that connects the requirements of the job opening with the skills and experience of a job seeker. Job seekers who register for a free account will be able to add their resume, enter their skills and experience, and create email alerts to receive jobs that are the closest match to their profile.
Jobs are filled and posted every day by Maine employers and dedicated staff at the Department of Labor. The team at the Department of Labor reviews each employer who registers and their respective postings before activating the job live on the site. CareerCenter staff follow up with employers after two weeks to review the listing's response, make any adjustments or take the listing down once filled. No job listing on the Maine Job Bank is older than 90 days.
CareerCenter staff can help employers and job seekers connect with the Job Bank. CareerCenters offer a variety of workshops and services to help people find employment or upgrade skills. Each center provides several public-access workstations with Microsoft Office software, resume writing and cover letter software, Internet access and O*Net software for skills assessment. All CareerCenter services are free of charge.
Maine CareerCenters are an equal opportunity provider. Auxiliary aids and services are available upon request to individuals with disabilities.
The Maine Job Bank incorporates a high level of security and user confidentiality and is put through rigorous testing for ADA compliance.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=618692&v=article2011
