Public Statements
Governor LePage Honored at Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Forum
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: March 6, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage was honored today by the Maine Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) at a "Briefing with the Boss" held in Augusta. More than 30 employers of reserve component members, ESGR volunteers and community leaders came together to build a positive working relationship and talk about ways to help each other in the future.
Governor LePage delivered remarks at the event, during which he was awarded the Seven Seals Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Program Award. The award recognizes his strong support of the military and for his ongoing work to expedite licensing processes for veterans and military members who already have the required training and experience for civilian jobs.
"It is an honor for me and my administration to help support your work as you help to support our men and women in uniform," said Governor LePage. "They have made sacrifices to protect America and to protect our way of life. Our nation is forever indebted to these brave service members who regularly leave their families and the comforts of home to ensure our freedoms. We are also grateful for the dedicated and supportive employers who continue to make their service in the National Guard and Reserves possible."
Governor LePage also thanked Brigadier General James Campbell, the Adjutant General, Anne Head, Commissioner of the Department of Professional and Financial Regulation, and Board Administrator Catherine Carroll for their significant contributions in recognizing Guard members and working with the Department of Labor to match up their military skills with civilian jobs.
Since 1972, the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve has been the Department of Defense program for service members and their civilian employers operating under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act.
Photo: Brigadier General James Campbell, the Adjutant General, presents Governor Paul R. LePage, Anne Head, Commissioner of the Department of Professional and Financial Regulation, and Board Administrator Catherine Carroll with ESGR Seven Seals awards.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=615897&v=article2011
