Public Statements
Governor LePage Meets with Veterans Leaders
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Feb. 7, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage met with representatives from Maine's veteran's service organizations at the quarterly Commanders Call. The meeting was held Thursday and is part of the Governor's ongoing effort to maintain an open channel of communication with these organizations.
The Commanders Call is hosted by Maine Veterans Services and members meet with the Governor to discuss and address current issues and the needs of the Maine's veterans' population. The Governor said, "The time I get to spend with these veterans is so important in understanding the issues facing Maine's veterans today. We owe our veterans a debt of thanks and I appreciate the opportunity to hear from these leaders directly."
During the meeting, Governor LePage appointed two new military Aides-de-Camp as authorized by state law in a ceremony in the Cabinet Room.
These veterans are appointed to the honorary rank of colonel and assist the Governor with activities affecting their organizations. They also advise the Governor and the commissioner of the Department of Defense, Veterans and Emergency Management on issues affecting Maine veterans.
The Aides-de-Camp are David C. Olson of Portland, and Veterans of Foreign Wars and Rachel N. Bosse of South China, Woman Veteran at Large. Also present at the appointment ceremony was Peter Ogden, Director of Maine Veterans Services and Brigadier General James D. Campbell, the Adjutant General, who presented the commanders with the insignia designating the position of honorary colonel.
These individuals will hold their appointment as an Aide-de-Camp for one year.
"I am honored to appoint these outstanding veterans as my Aides-de-Camp. They have served their state and nation in times of war and peace, and continue to serve today" said Governor LePage "I look forward to their valuable input on veterans issues and know they will serve Maine's Veterans well."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=614277&v=article2011
