Public Statements
Governor Proclaims February Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Feb. 7, 2014
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage has proclaimed the month of February to be Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month. He joined domestic violence awareness advocates in his office last week to sign the proclamation and praised them for their work.
"There is no room for any type of violence in Maine and I will do everything I can to stop the abuse," said the Governor. "Violence awareness advocacy groups are an intricate part of helping raise awareness and supporting victims, and I commend these organizations, which are truly making a difference."
According to Regina Rooney, Maine Coalition to End Domestic Violence's Public Awareness Coordinator, "In 2013, nearly 40,000 youth in communities throughout Maine participated in education around dating violence and healthy relationships, provided by advocates from MCEDV resource centers. Outreach and awareness-building with young people is essential to laying the foundation for a violence-free future."
On Thursday, Feb. 6, domestic violence awareness and prevention organizations recognized Domestic Violence Awareness Day at the State House in Augusta where they displayed and shared informational material with the public. Those who participated in this year's event included, the Maine Coalition to End Domestic Violence, Hope & Justice Project, Spruce Run-Womancare Alliance, Next Step, Family Violence Project, New Hope for Women, Family Crisis Services, Safe Voices, Caring Unlimited, Wabanaki Women's Coalition, and the Maliseet Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Program.
The Governor invites Mainers to join violence awareness advocates in helping to raise awareness on this important issue by encouraging statewide youth, families, schools, law enforcement communities, government agencies, elected officials, civic organizations and other interested groups to show support for the organizations and individuals who provide critical advocacy and services and assistance to victims.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=614308&v=article2011
