Public Statements
Issue Positions: Safeguarding Maine's Environment
Issue Position
By: Paul LePage
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor LePage was born and raised in Maine. He and First Lady Ann LePage raised their kids here.

Paul LePage recognizes that Maine's environment must be protected. It is critical for our quality of life, for our children and our economy. It is not only a treasurer for the citizens of Maine it is a national treasure that draws people from all over the country and the world to enjoy our lakes, woods, beaches, clean air, streams, rivers, and mountains. We are literally surrounded by natural beauty.

We must punish polluters who deliberately harm our environment while also making sound decisions of how best to protect our environment. Jobs and protecting our environment do not have to compete.

If you harm our environment and violate the law you have the wrong Governor if you wish to get away with it.

Under Governor LePage Maine issued the second-largest environmental penalty in history -- the largest penalty against a polluter in two decades. Governor LePage's Department of Environmental Protection issued a penalty of $900,000 against Chevron for a major oil spill. Governor LePage will not stand by as companies or individuals harm our environment or break our laws.

He will also work to ensure science -- not politics -- is the ultimate guiding force in decision making. Too many politicians invoke fear or controversy to raise campaign money or scare people into thinking more red tape is needed for the sake of red tape. Some special interests also raise money on these fears. The Governor is not interested in fear or having Maine serve as an outlier to promote a political agenda, he is interested in the actions of other states and the federal government in determining public policy.

One area of scientific concern is the use of chemicals. Governor LePage has noted Maine should generally follow the federal government's lead in such matters as the federal budget for studying chemicals is large and bans impact interstate commerce, which is the Constitutional purview of the federal government. For instance President Obama's administration has failed to outright ban the chemical BPA repeatedly. (source: Businessweek magazine) The Obama FDA stated as late as March of 2012, "findings cannot be applied to humans," regarding BPA safety concerns. In July of 2013 the federal government stopped BPA use in baby formula only after the "the FDA noted that the industry had already abandoned use of the chemical." The FDA added however that their scientific evidence "did not make a finding that BPA in packaging poses health risks." (source: The Hill newspaper)

Governor LePage has taken significant, important steps to protect our environment:

In the Governor's proposed budgets, funding for Maine's Natural Resource Agencies was protected, ensuring continued environmental protection.
Created the Department of Agriculture, Conservation and Forestry to focus on the protection and use of our world-class natural resources.
Improved the disposal of unused pharmaceuticals, ensuring our public water supplies and aquifers are not damaged.
Restarted the annual Governor's Awards for Environmental Excellence, to recognize projects and programs that have resulted in environmental protection as well as economic benefits that include infrastructure investments and jobs.
Developed a process within the Department of Marine Resources to implement cooperative fishermen-supported measures for risk-reduction to protect whales.
Continued protection of fishing levels for elvers and supported legislation that dramatically increased fines and penalties for unlicensed and illegal fishing.
Signed a law supporting clean-up of contaminated and unsafe properties in working waterfront areas.
Enhanced the penalties related to the black market on various animal parts including bear, moose and deer.
Supported the increased of penalties for illegally killing deer.
Signed legislation allowing the Maine Department of Marine Resources to create state water marine fisheries management plans to: establish long-term goals and visions for Maine's fisheries; ensure their viability; and provide for rebuilding, access and new entrants.
Helped secure a $400,000 agreement with the federal Natural Resources Conservation Services which opens the door to $2 million in funding to assist family forest owners in the implementation of good forest stewardship practices.

Source: http://lepage2014.com/issues/safeguarding-maines-environment/
