Public Statements
Radio Address: A Special Christmas Message from Governor Paul R. LePage
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: Dec. 23, 2013
Location: Unknown

As we gather with friends and family this week to celebrate Christmas, I am reminded how blessed I am to have such a wonderful family.
Hello, this is Governor Paul LePage.
As Governor, it is as important for me to help provide opportunities for my family to stay in Maine as it is for your children and grandchildren to live, work and play in our great State.
This holiday season, I hope you are encouraged at the direction Maine is moving.
Last week, we learned the unemployment rate fell for the third month in a row, putting it at its lowest rate since 2008. More Mainers are working, and that means more Mainers are providing for themselves and their families this holiday season.
Still, there are Mainers struggling, and I don't want those families to lose faith. As your Governor, I have walked in your shoes and know how difficult it is to fall on hard times. However, where there is a will, there is a way.
Our Administration continues to work for you, and we will continue to make Maine a better place for ALL of our sons and daughters to find work, to start businesses and to stay here to raise families of their own.
As we come together for the holidays, we have an opportunity to share goodwill and gratitude and reflect on blessings we have received year round.
I have reason to be proud of our great State largely because of the fortitude of Mainers, and I am looking forward to another year of building opportunities for you and your family.
And while many families are together this Christmas, I would also like to recognize many families are apart.
I share my deep appreciation for our military service members who are serving away from their loved ones this Christmas. The First Lady and I thank you for your dedication and courage as you defend our nation and the freedoms we hold dear. We look forward to your safe return.
Also, I wish to thank our military families for all their sacrifices while your loved ones are away.
I wish you and your families, near and far, a safe and Merry Christmas.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=610806&v=article
