Public Statements
The First 1,000 Days of Governor Paul R. LePage
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Nov. 20, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage released today a comprehensive booklet of accomplishments from his first 1,000 days in office. A compilation of more than 25 pages of achievements, the booklet is titled Moving Maine Forward.
Moving Maine Forward details the LePage Administration's most notable achievements, such as paying Maine's hospital welfare debt and passing the largest tax cut in the state's history, as well as many lesser-known successes, such as launching an online licensing process for electricians, real estate professional and physical therapists.
A web version of the Moving Maine Forward is free to the public and available on the Governor's website.
"Our Administration has set clear priorities that focus on creating a more prosperous place for Mainers in the state we call home," Governor LePage said. "This is not just political rhetoric. Our efforts have yielded real results, including job creation, lowering taxes and welfare reform, and in this booklet we highlight these common-sense reforms and how they are truly moving Maine forward."
During the past 1,000 days, Governor LePage has proved he is able to keep campaign promises and improve Maine's economy. From January 2011 to October 2013, Maine's private sector grew by 8,000 jobs, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The growth may be attributed to a number of initiatives, which are outlined in the booklet, including tax incentives that encourage job creators to invest in Maine, regulatory reform that streamlines the licensing and permitting process and changing the culture of state government from adversarial to "can do."
The state's unemployment rate has also dropped 12.5 percent from January 2011 to August 2013, decreasing from nearly 8 percent to 7 percent. For almost three years, the LePage Administration has focused on initiatives that help develop job skills and training for Mainers searching for work.
Under the Governor's leadership, veterans now have the ability to transfer their military training to the civilian workforce, helping them get jobs. Fees for driver's licenses and ID cards for current and recently discharged members of the Armed Forces have been waived, and opportunities for disabled veterans to hunt, fish and trap have been increased during the LePage Administration.
"Micro-business" entrepreneurs now have health insurance relief, easing the cost of doing business and enabling those business owners to invest more into the economy, thanks to initiatives supported by the Governor.
The Administration has also assisted nearly 800 Mainers with disabilities to find employment success by working with the Department of Labor, resulting in more than $13 million in wages and supported welfare reform to help recipients find long-term employment and become self-sufficient.
"Because more Mainers are working, the Unemployment Insurance Tax rate will drop in 2014 to its lowest rate since 2009," said Governor LePage. "That will save businesses $30 million in 2014 -- that's $30 million that can be reinvested in Maine's economy."
Moving Maine Forward also highlights other reforms led and/or supported by the Governor, including reforms or improvements in:
* Welfare
* Financial Stability * Environmental Protection/Natural Resources
* Education
* Energy
* Domestic Violence
* Public Safety
* Reducing Red Tape
A free copy of Moving Maine Forward is available on the Office of the Governor website. The published version of the book is available at the Office of the Governor.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=608614&v=article2011
