Public Statements
Governor and First Lady Thank Mainers for Food Donations
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Nov. 12, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage and First Lady Ann M. LePage would like to thank everyone who graciously donated food to the Third Annual Blaine House Food Drive. This year, Mainers donated 1,728 pounds of food, which will help needy families throughout the State this holiday season.
"Each year, Paul and I see familiar faces and we see new ones too who are making this food drive an annual tradition with their families," said First Lady Ann LePage. "As the holidays approach we are reminded of how fortunate our family is, and it feels good to give back to those who need it. With your help, this is one way we will make a positive difference in our communities."
This was the third consecutive year Maine's First Family welcomed the public at their residence as part of the food drive. In addition to accepting donations on behalf of the Good Shepherd Food Bank and offering their heartfelt thanks, the Governor and First Lady invited the public to tour the residence and enjoy light refreshments. Good Shepherd will determine the communities that need the food most and then distribute the donations accordingly.
"As someone who has been without, I know how meaningful these donations can be in bettering the lives of those less fortunate as they get on their feet," said Governor LePage. "Ann and I are happy to open the Blaine House for this cause, and we are so proud and appreciative of the generosity of our fellow citizens in helping our neighbors in need. It is not government hand-outs, but the great compassion and commitment Maine people and community organizations like Good Shepherd have for lending a hand-up, that is improving lives and strengthening our great state."
Good Shepherd supplies food from Kittery to Fort Kent through their partner network of more than 600 food pantries, soup kitchens and other hunger-relief organizations.
"We are very thankful to have the support of the Governor and his family, along with all the community members who made donations during the Blaine House food drives," said Kristen Miale, president of the Good Shepherd Food Bank. "As we prepare for the long winter ahead, the Food Bank is working to make sure we're able to provide an ongoing supply of high-quality food items to 36,000 Mainers each week. These food drives will certainly help us reach that goal."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=608277&v=article2011
