Public Statements
Governor LePage Continues Trade Mission in Mexico and Colombia
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Oct. 30, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Approximately 90 people attended the State of Maine reception held Tuesday night in Mexico City. The reception followed two days of meetings for the Maine business delegation, led by Governor Paul R. LePage.
In all, eight companies are participating in the mission with matchmaking meetings scheduled for this week in both Mexico and Columbia. Three schools - Husson University of Bangor, Lee Academy of Lee, and Thornton Academy of Saco - are also featured at roundtables with parents and students and had the opportunity to meet with the Mexican Undersecretary of Education.
"Mexico is a very important trading partner for Maine and we are here to strengthen that relationship," said Governor LePage. "Maine companies are looking to become even more competitive on the global market. This trade mission is about expanding export opportunities and developing relationships for new private investment."
Last night's reception featured remarks from Governor Paul R. LePage, Laura Dogu, Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassy, and Janine Bisaillon-Cary, president of the Maine International Trade Center. Also in attendance was Senator Marcela Guerra, chair of the North American Relations Committee of the Mexican Senate.
On Monday, the Governor and Trade Center delivered a presentation on Maine to the Asociacion de Empresarios Mexicanos -- an association of investors, entrepreneurs, and Mexican professionals with 14 locations throughout Mexico and the U.S., including a Boston chapter. The Governor also had the opportunity to meet with the Honorable Jose Antonio Meade Kuribrena - the Mexican Secretary of Foreign Affairs, regarding Maine's trade and investment interests.
Monday evening, Governor LePage traveled to the city of Santiago de Queretaro for meetings with local business leaders. The State of Queretaro, approximately two hours north of Mexico City, is an emerging economic powerhouse built around the auto and aerospace industries. It is also the home of Dalegip -- Maine's first Mexican foreign direct investor that recently participated in a joint venture with GAC Chemical of Searsport.
"We credit Manuel Rivadeneyra of Dalegip opening up the doors in Queretaro," said Janine Bisaillon-Cary, president of the Maine International Trade Center. "He connected us with local officials, industrial associations, and a number of companies with interest in trade and investment in Maine."
The Governor also had the opportunity to visit the National Aerospace University of Queretaro (UNAQ) to learn more about its training and workforce development initiatives servicing the growing aerospace cluster and the local Bombardier facility.
The delegation moves on to Bogota, Colombia tomorrow with full slates of meetings scheduled for Thursday and Friday.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=607293&v=article2011
