Public Statements
Governor Declares Civil Emergency to Minimize Fiscal Impacts of Federal Shutdown
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: Oct. 9, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

With the federal shutdown now into its second week, Governor Paul R. LePage today issued a proclamation declaring a civil emergency so his administration can minimize the financial impact to the State of Maine and its federally funded employees. Maine law enables the Governor to declare a civil emergency.
"The failure of leadership in Washington, D.C. has resulted in a federal shutdown, preventing the flow of federal money to Maine," said Governor LePage. "Unfortunately, this means that a large number of our federally funded state employees may have to be laid off. The State of Maine simply cannot fill the financial gap created by the prolonged loss of federal dollars. It would be unlawful for the State to ask our federally funded employees to continue to work without having the authority to pay them."
More than 2,700 state employees are paid, either partially or entirely, by federal funding. Governor LePage sent a letter to all state employees, explaining why the civil emergency is necessary. The federal shutdown not only affects federally funded state employees, it also impacts many federally funded programs and services that Mainers rely upon.
Services and/or programs have already been adversely impacted at several state agencies, including the Department of Defense, Veterans and Emergency Management, the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Labor.
"Some politicians tell us not to worry about it, that the check is in the mail," said Governor LePage. "But they cannot tell us when or if any federal money will be available. In the meantime, we cannot use Maine taxpayers' money to pay for positions or programs that are supposed to be federally funded. We did not create this mess in Washington, D.C., but our administration is working tirelessly to assist our employees and to allow the continuation of important programs and services to the citizens of Maine."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=606133&v=article2011
