Public Statements
Governor LePage Proclaims "Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week"
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Sept. 24, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage has proclaimed Sept. 22-28 as "Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week" throughout the State of Maine. Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) is a Department of Defense agency established in 1972 to develop and maintain employer support for National Guard and Reserve forces.
"Since that tragic day in September 2001 when our country was attacked, our guard and reserve members have answered the call to protect America." said Governor LePage. "Our nation is indebted to these brave men and women who regularly leave their families and the comforts of home to ensure our freedoms, as well as the dedicated and supportive employers who continue to make service in the Reserve Components possible."
Today employer support is stronger than ever, more than 41 years after President Richard Nixon authorized the Secretary of Defense to establish the National Committee of Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve. Employers provide critical support to their reserve component employees allowing these citizen warriors to serve whenever the Nation calls, often foregoing financial gain and making sacrifices in the process.
Maine ESGR Committee Chair Rob Carmichael reports that within fiscal year 2013 approximately 50,000 employers have signed Statements of Supports and nearly 8,000 employers have been recognized with the ESGR Patriotic Employer Award across the country.
"I thank all of Maine's employers who have given their employees their proud support during multiple deployments and long periods away, and I ask for your continued support of these brave men and women in the future," said Governor LePage.
The National Guard and Reserve Component forces comprise nearly half of our nation's military strength and are essential to America's National Security. Reserve Component forces stand ready to answer the call to serve, whether serving alongside active duty counterparts all the across the globe or responding to natural disasters or humanitarian crisis at home or abroad.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=605087&v=article2011
