Public Statements
Governor LePage and First Lady LePage Welcome Mainers, Donations at Third Annual Blaine House Food Drive
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Sept. 19, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Maine's First Family invites Mainers to visit the Blaine House once again this year in an effort to help fellow citizens who are less fortunate. In October, Governor Paul R. LePage and First Lady Ann M. LePage will open their doors for the annual Blaine House Food Drive. The Governor and First Lady started the food drive three years ago, and have collected thousands of pounds of food for pantries and homeless shelters across Maine.
The food drives will take place on three consecutive Saturday's during the month of October, which are Oct. 12, Oct. 19 and Oct. 26. Mainers will have an opportunity to bring a food donation, receive a tour of the Blaine House led by Governor LePage and enjoy light refreshments.
"As our holiday season approaches, it is very important that we remember those who are less fortunate and are trying to get on their feet," said Governor LePage. "The First Lady and I recognize how meaningful these food donations can be to those individuals in trying circumstances. Mainers are generous people, and it is heartwarming to see to see so many who are willing to help their neighbors in need. The First Lady and I are happy to open the Blaine House for another food drive this year."
All donations collected at the Blaine House will be given to Good Shepherd Food-Bank. Good Shepherd Food-Bank will determine the communities that need the food most and distribute the donations.
"Governor and First Lady LePage are setting a great example for Mainers to get involved in the fight against hunger," said Kristen Miale, president of Good Shepherd Food Bank. "Hunger is a significant problem in Maine with 15 percent of households not able to access enough nutritious food. We thank the First Family for making a different in the lives of families struggling with hunger and encouraging others to do the same."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=604009&v=article2011
