Public Statements
Honoring Maine's Veteran's on POW/MIA Recognition Day
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Sept. 19, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage and First Lady Ann M. LePage will welcome hundreds of military family members of Prisoners of War and Missing in Action (POW/MIA) veterans at Old Orchard Beach Baseball Park as part of the Maine Heroes Fund recognition weekend. The event begins Friday, Sept. 20 at 3 p.m. at Old Orchard Beach Baseball Park, Old Orchard Beach.
On Saturday at 10 a.m., Governor Paul LePage will open the remembrance ceremony with remarks to the POW/MIA families and guests, followed by a reading of a proclamation he signed declaring September 20, 2013 as POW/MIA Recognition Day throughout the State of Maine.
"Maine is proud that 140,000 veterans call this State home," the Governor said. "They served us well and many sacrificed a great deal to protect our country. This weekend we take time to recognize our veterans who were Prisoners of War and those Missing in Action and their families whose lives have been forever changed."
Founded by Russell Warriner and the POW/MIA Recognition Weekend Committee, The Maine Heroes Fund hosts the POW/MIA Recognition Weekend to honor veterans and their families for their sacrifices to their country. The weekend will also serve as a fundraiser to help veterans in need. In previous years, funds raised went to help the Wounded Heroes of Maine Fund.
First Lady Ann M. LePage has chosen to support Maine's military service members and hopes Mainers will consider attending this weekend's event.
"It is important to honor the men and women in uniform who defend our freedom," said Mrs. LePage. "This weekend's event gives us an opportunity to remember the more than 500 Maine citizens who honorably served their country and remain unaccounted for as a POW or MIA. These heroes deserve our respect, and we continue to strive to learn the truth about every missing American."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=604008&v=article2011
