Public Statements
Governor LePage Highlights Opportunities to Honor and Remember Victims of 9/11
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Sept. 11, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage is recognizing September 11, 2013 as a "Day of Service and Remembrance" and highlighting opportunities to serve in communities throughout Maine in the coming days to honor those lost on September 11, 2001. In issuing a proclamation to mark the observance, Governor LePage emphasized the significance of service as a way to pay tribute to the thousands of individuals, families and communities directly impacted by the terrorist attacks.
"People across Maine and throughout the nation came together in the aftermath of 9/11 with an extraordinary spirit of patriotism and unity," Governor LePage said. "They demonstrated tremendous kindness and generosity, and performed countless acts of service. We can never forget those killed on 9/11. Remembering them through community service will also help to ensure that we never forget the remarkable way Americans responded."
To pay tribute to those who lost their lives on September 11, 2001, and in the ensuing conflicts, Governor LePage will speak at two remembrance ceremonies Wednesday: the Freeport 9/11 Remembrance Ceremony at the corner of West Street and Main Street, Freeport at 9:30 a.m., and the American Legion 9/11 Remembrance Ceremony at 208 Maine Street, Brunswick at noon.
The Governor will recognize and thank Maine's first responders and for their daily service, and for the acts of heroism they regularly perform. "While remembering those lost on 9/11, we should also recall the incredible courage displayed that day, and use the anniversary to express our appreciation to all police officers, firefighters, emergency medical personnel and those serving in the military."
In 2009, Congress enacted the Serve America Act to recognize each September 11 as a "National Day of Service and Remembrance" and charged the Corporation for National and Community Services with leading the nationwide effort. The Maine Commission for Community Service plays a lead role in organizing the annual observance in our State, and in providing ways for people to serve---not just on the 9/11 anniversary, but throughout the year. More information and ways to get involved can be found at www.maineservicecommission.gov/.
"Maine people have a well-deserved reputation for helping their neighbors and supporting one another in difficult times," the Governor added. "That sense of duty to serve others was on full display following the terrorist attacks twelve years ago, and this annual observance continues to bring out the best in the people of our State."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=594138&v=article2011
