Public Statements
Governor LePage Attends U.S. Manufacturing Summit
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Aug. 23, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage and state economic development officials are in Florida for a meeting aimed at finding ways to increase employment in the manufacturing industry. Governor LePage joined seven other governors and representatives of manufacturers, suppliers and retailers Thursday at the U.S. Manufacturing Summit in Orlando, Fla.
Sponsored by Walmart and the National Retail Federation, the summit focuses on manufacturing and supply chains in the U.S. and on Walmart's 10-year commitment to buy more "Made in the USA" products. More than 500 supplier companies, 32 states and major retail industry leaders are participating in the event.
"This summit is a big step in the right direction to attract and keep more businesses in the U.S.," Governor LePage said. "In Maine, we know that small businesses are the engine of our economy, and our commitment to American manufacturing will bring even more companies and jobs to our state."
On Thursday, Governor LePage met with U.S. Secretary of Commerce Peggy Pitzkler before participating in a panel with Governors Butch Otter and Earl Tomblin to discuss manufacturing success stories within their respective states and how government has the potential help to promote economic growth. Governor LePage said Maine has made progress in reducing red tape, lowering the cost of doing business, and helping businesses navigate the maze of government.
"We have Governor's Account Executives within our Department of Economic and Community Development, which has created one stop shopping for business," said Governor LePage. "A business looking to expand or relocate to Maine gets assigned to one person who is their single point of contact for dealing with government. I firmly believe customer service is critical to attracting business to Maine, and now we have individuals assigned to navigate government so business people can focus on creating jobs and running their business."
In addition, supplier companies met with Governor LePage and Economic and Community Development Commissioner George Gervais to share information about potential projects and learn about resources available in participating states.
The State of Maine also has an exhibit space highlighting the state's business-friendly climate, robust infrastructure, and strong manufacturing industry sector.
"This event is an excellent opportunity for us to share the message that Maine is a great place to create new jobs and to do business," said Economic and Community Development Commissioner George Gervais.
To learn more about the Walmart U.S. Manufacturing Summit, visit http://corporate.walmart.com/global-responsibility/us-manufacturing

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=586453&v=article2011
