Public Statements
Governor LePage Partners with Nova Scotia to Restore Economic Driver Between Regions
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Aug. 13, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage is pleased to announce that the province of Nova Scotia has chosen STM Quest, Inc. to set up and run a new ferry service between Yarmouth, Nova Scotia and Portland, Maine.
In a letter to the Premier of the Province of Nova Scotia, Hon. Darrell Dexter, Governor LePage expressed his enthusiasm for the return of the ferry service from Nova Scotia to Maine and provided formal support to STM Quest. STM Quest is one of three companies that submitted plans to operate the ferry service. The Governor has offered the following assistance to STM Quest:
We will work with the Quest Navigation marketing team and we will allocate a portion of our marketing to promote the ferry service
We will also assist Quest Navigation in securing an operating line of credit for the amount of $5 million
We will assist including Quest Navigation's capital needs into Portland waterfront planning to ensure consistency with the freight and business focus of the International Marine Terminal plans
"Since 2009, Nova Scotia and Maine have missed a critical link between our citizens and economies," said Governor LePage. "On behalf of the people of Maine, we would welcome restoration of this vital service and economic driver."
STM Quest, Inc., is a joint venture between Quest Navigation of Maine and ST Marine of Singapore. The ferry service is proposed to begin in the spring of 2014 using a new 161 meter ship that has capacity for 1250 passengers and 300 vehicles, and was the only Maine-based company to bid and commit in its plans a port of call in Portland, Maine.
This is the second economic development initiative the LePage Administration has assisted with to help bring business to the Portland waterfront. Governor LePage announced earlier this year that Eimskip (The Icelandic Steamship Company) signed a contract with Maine Port Authority to begin operations out of the International Marine Terminal in Portland.
Additionally, the Governor dedicates nearly $20 million, in a transportation bond that is before lawmakers this week, for improvements to multimodal facilities that support projects, such as major development on the Portland waterfront.
"Our roads and ports continue to be a focus of economic opportunity that helps create jobs," said Governor LePage. "The restoration of the ferry service will boost Portland's economy and Eimskip's service will open new markets for businesses to generate economic growth throughout Maine."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=584215&v=article2011
