Public Statements
Radio Address: If You See Something, Say Something
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: Sept. 14, 2016
Location: Augusta, ME

Fifteen years ago, America was forever changed. 9-11 demonstrated that terrorism can happen at home.
Hello, this is Governor Paul LePage.
As your Governor, public safety is a priority for me. When it comes to protecting citizens, we all have a responsibility to report suspicious behavior.
This week, law enforcement agencies and Maine Emergency Management Agency partnered with the Department of Homeland Security to launch a campaign called "If You See Something, Say Something™." Joining this national effort reinforces Maine's commitment to fighting terrorism and violent crime.
"If You See Something, Say Something™" was launched by the Department of Homeland Security to raise public awareness about terrorism and the importance of reporting suspicious activity to state and local authorities.
"If You See Something, Say Something™" campaign materials will be visible throughout the state of Maine in public buildings, transit systems, schools and participating business and event locations.
The public should report suspicious activity and behavior, such as an untended package or someone breaking into a restricted area. Suspicious activity does not include factors such as race, ethnicity, gender, religion, national origin, sexual orientation or gender identity.
Anyone who sees suspicious activity in Maine is asked to call their local law enforcement agency or dial 9-1-1 in case of an emergency.
Maine has a small population, but we have a large geographic area to protect. We have 611 miles of international border; 3,000 miles of coastline. Two of the 9-11 terrorists traveled through Portland Jetport to Boston. They hijacked American Airlines Flight 11 and flew it into the World Trade Center.
The goal is to make sure all of our citizens are alert and paying attention to their surroundings. Most importantly, Mainers should report anything suspicious. We don't know when, where or by whom the next act of terrorism may strike. But we must be aware and understand the vital role citizens play in preventing terrorism and keeping our communities safe. Since 9-11, the world has changed and we must be vigilant. If you see something, say something.
Thank you for listening.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=704512&v=article
