Public Statements
Corrected Version: Governor LePage and First Lady Ask Legislature to Reverse Rejection by Education Committee of Military Service Exploration for Maine Students
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: June 3, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage and First Lady Ann M. LePage are calling on the Maine Legislature to vote not as divided Republicans and Democrats but as united Americans on two bills that ensure the state's students have opportunity to explore military service.
They are also asking those who support all Maine students having access to learning more about voluntary service in the armed forces to call their legislators and encourage them to support the two Governor's bills, which come to the full Legislature with divided reports after being rejected on essentially party line votes in the Democrat-controlled Education Committee last month.
A vote in the Maine House has not yet been scheduled but could happen as early as today.
"Military service is our nation's highest calling and nothing should stand in the way of Maine's students who wish to pursue that brave and patriotic path," said the LePage's, who have made advocacy for Maine's military members of past and present and their families a hallmark of their tenure in the Blaine House. "Maine students should have the same opportunity to talk to recruiters from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines or Coast Guard as they do those from Colby, Bates and Bowdoin. We may have our political differences here in Augusta, but for the good of Maine's young adults and our nation, let's put them aside and join together to support these bills."
LD 1502, An Act To Expand Student Access to Certain Career Information and Opportunities, would require school boards to adopt policies allowing the administration of the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, known as ASVAB, to those who are interested.
The test helps students understand their strengths and which jobs may be best for them, but some public high schools in Maine prohibit its administration on school grounds.

Source:
