Public Statements
Governor LePage Travels to Montreal to Encourage Economic Growth between Maine and Quebec
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: April 23, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage signed a memorandum of agreement yesterday with Premier of Quebec Pauline Marois to encourage economic development and support job creation between Maine and Province of Quebec. The Premier invited the Governor to Montreal to sign the agreement, which she described as an important collaboration between Maine and Quebec.
Although Maine and Quebec share a border, as well a common history and culture, this is the first time that the state has entered into such an MOU to strengthen relations with Quebec.
"I was pleased to meet with Premier Marois to discuss how Maine and Quebec can work together to create jobs and cooperate in the areas of energy, natural resources transportation, border security and culture," the Governor said. "And I know she was pleased to converse with me in French, which is my native language, and to talk about our shared French-Canadian heritage."
The MOU encourages Maine and Quebec to coordinate with their business communities to set up partnerships and implement economic development initiatives. The agreement also encourages an exchange of cross-border solutions for clean energy, such as hydropower and bioenergy, which could lower home heating costs for Maine people".
"Le Québec et le Maine partagent non seulement une histoire et un patrimoine, mais également des enjeux et des défis qui présentent des occasions de collaboration importantes. Je me réjouis de la signature de cet accord qui témoigne de notre volonté á travailler ensemble pour assurer le développement de relations qui nous seront mutuellement bénéfiques," said Premier Marois.
A Quebec-Maine Joint Committee will be responsible for implementing the agreement.
In addition to signing the agreement with the Premier, Governor LePage spoke to 150 business leaders at luncheon conference sponsored by The Montreal Council on Foreign Relations. Titled "Maine and Quebec: Opportunities to Stimulate our Economic Relations," the Governor spoke about economic agenda of Maine, strengthening of business relations with Quebec and business opportunities that Maine can offer Quebec.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=519598&v=article2011
