Public Statements
Radio Address: Refocusing Efficiency Maine Funds to Reduce Heating Costs for Mainers
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: April 6, 2013
Location: Unknown

Hello. This is Governor Paul LePage.
My fellow Mainers, I told you about some disturbing news last week. You are paying considerably more than you should for electricity. This week, I have more bad news.
Supporters of more expensive energy are planning to double the fee that is added to your electric bill every month. This increase will fund Efficiency Maine, a program that offers cash and rebates to buy new light bulbs, weatherize homes and replace old appliances with energy-efficient models.
Efficiency Maine has been funded by federal stimulus money, a regional cap and trade program, and the System Benefits Charge, which is a fee added to your electric bill. This fee on your electric bill totals $13 million a year. Now that the stimulus money is gone, the new plan increases the System Benefits Charge to $30 million over three years. Average homeowners will pay $8 to $20 more a year to more to fund Efficiency Maine. Some say that this increase doesn't amount to much. But electric bills for industrial businesses will jump by more than $50,000 over the next three years. That's another slap in the face to our industrial companies, who are some of Maine's biggest employers.
Maine's energy costs are already the 10th highest in the nation, and are 34 percent higher than the national average. Our high energy costs already discourage new businesses from coming to Maine. Some companies have cited these costs as a major factor in their decision to move to other states with more affordable energy. This is a major reason the southeast is prospering.
Folks, in this economy, increasing electricity costs by even one penny is not prudent. The attitude in Augusta that raising taxes, increasing fees and spending more will solve our problems must stop. As long as I am your governor, I will fight any attempt to increase electricity costs on my fellow Mainers.

Source:
