Public Statements
Governor Keeps the Pressure on Democrats in Weekly Message
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: March 8, 2013
Location: Unknown

On Monday, Maine citizens will have an opportunity to speak before members of the Legislature about the Governor's emergency bill which would pay Maine's hospitals, restructure the state's liquor operations and sales, and advance bonds. Governor Paul R. LePage presented the bill in January and it's expected to strengthen Maine's economy as early as spring if the Legislature passes the bill.
Governor LePage delivered his weekly message via video Friday to Mainers highlighting why he is so adamant about paying Maine's $484 million in debt owed to the state's hospitals. The video is available to view on the Governor's YouTube page at www.YouTube.com/govlepage
"Much has been made of my promise to veto any bill that arrived on my desk before the Legislature passes my plan to pay the hospitals the half-a-billion dollars we owe them," Governor LePage said. "Those who object to my plan to pay the hospitals jumped at the chance to call my promise a "threat," a "veto spree," "bluster" and a "temper tantrum." My fellow Mainers, I did not make that promise out of anger, and it didn't come from a tantrum. I made that promise out of frustration," he continued.
It has been more than fifty days since Governor. LePage announced the plan that would pay $484 million to Maine hospitals in outstanding debt dating back to 2009, restructure liquor operations and sales to provide a better return on investment and advance $105 million in bonds releasing funding for a variety of projects across Maine. The comprehensive plan would put nearly $700 million into Maine's economy creating health care and construction jobs, and invest in millions to pay for clean water and transportation projects, and start setting aside money for the state's depleted rainy day fund.
A public hearing for LD 239 is set for 10 a.m. and 1 p.m., Monday, March 11 in the Veterans and Legal Affairs Committee at the State House, Augusta.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=511929&v=article2011
