Public Statements
Governor LePage To Outline Agenda: Build On Progress Of Past Two Years and Focus on Maine Families In 7 p.m. State of the State Speech
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Feb. 5, 2013
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage is set to deliver his second State of the State speech tonight at 7 p.m. to the 126th Maine State Legislature, highlighting our state's economic future and outlining his priorities to move Maine forward.
In his speech, the Governor notes Maine's unemployment rate is significantly lower than the national average and has dropped since he took office. He also will state that, "If you want to create a job, I want to be there to help."
Maine Public Broadcasting Network will broadcast live the State of the State on TV, radio and online at http://www.MPBN.net
Using social media, the Office of the Governor released numerous tweets throughout the day Tuesday from Governor LePage's speech which focused on Maine families, education and energy. Those messages with the #MESOTS Twitter hashtag included:
"Maine families are struggling. With a median household income of just under $48,000, Maine families survive on far less money than those in other states. There is no more important thing in most of our lives than our families."
"The average Maine family spends more than $3,000 per year to fill their oil tank. With access to natural gas, this same family could save an average of $800 per year. My predecessor fast tracked permitting for wind projects; I am going to do the same for all natural gas infrastructure."
"I am passionate about education. This passion is not an attack on public schools. I speak passionately because education is what saved my life and I cannot accept any child not being given the same opportunity I had. As a homeless child on the streets of Lewiston, it never occurred to me that one day I could be a successful businessman, a mayor or even Governor. Finding my next meal and a warm spot to sleep was my goal. However, through all that hardship I knew that education was the key for me, if I was ever going to climb out of poverty, escape a life in prison, or life on the streets."

Source:
