Public Statements
Governor LePage Signs Real ID, Maine Aims to Comply with Federal Law
By: Paul LePage
Date: April 28, 2017
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul R. LePage today signed "An Act To Require State Compliance with Federal REAL ID Guidelines," which will place Maine in compliance with the federal REAL ID law. Maine had been one of only four states that were not in compliance with REAL ID.
"It is in the best interest of Mainers for state officials to unite in going forward with REAL ID implementation. Many Democrats provided a disservice by not passing this bill a long time ago," said Governor LePage. "As we work on this process, we have been reassured Maine will be extended a waiver to allow residents to continue using non-compliant ID cards beyond January 2018. I want to thank Senator Diamond for advocating for this comprehensive bill that aims to better safeguard all Mainers and meet federal security standards."
Sen. Bill Diamond (D-Windham) sponsored LD 306, "An Act To Require State Compliance with Federal REAL ID Guidelines." The bill directs the Secretary of State to issue driver's licenses and non-driver identification cards that conform to the federal REAL ID Act of 2005.
Governor LePage had recently expressed his disappointment in how Maine veterans have been adversely affected by Maine's lack of compliance with REAL ID, which prevented them access to some federal facilities, including the VA. The Governor's signing of LD 306 will ensure Mainers can use their driver's licenses as identification at airport security and will allow truckers and workers access to federal facilities and military bases.
"Maine has dodged a bullet. By signing this bill into law, Governor LePage reassures Mainers are no longer at a disadvantage, nor will we be an outlier as a state. Non-compliance with REAL ID has created unnecessary inconveniences for Mainers, especially our veterans, and now we are able to move forward," said Senator Diamond.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=742827&v=article2011
