Public Statements
Governor LePage Announces Colonel James Campbell as Nominee for Adjutant General of Maine
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: July 10, 2012
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul LePage announced today that he has selected Colonel James Campbell, MEARNG, to serve as Maine's next Adjutant General.
"Colonel Campbell has distinguished himself as a soldier and a scholar, in addition to his recent service in Afghanistan. I am proud to nominate him as Adjutant General. He is the right man to lead our soldiers and airmen in the years to come," said Governor LePage.
Campbell joined the Maine Army National Guard in 1995 following 9 years of active duty service. He has held a number of positions in the Maine National Guard, including Executive Officer of the University of Maine Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) battalion and Commander of the 11th Civil Support Team (Weapons of Mass Destruction) in Waterville. Campbell is currently on orders serving as the Deputy Division Chief of the Operations Plans Division at United States Central Command in Tampa, FL. He holds a BA in History from Colby College and both an MA and Ph. D. in History from the University of Maine.
"I'm pleased and honored to have been selected by the Governor for this position. I look forward to returning to Maine to lead our superb Soldiers and Airmen of the Maine National Guard through this important period of both war and transition," said Campbell. "I am confident that the professionals of the Maine Emergency Management Agency and the Bureau of Veterans' Services will continue to provide the high level of service to Maine's citizens to which we have all become accustomed."
The Adjutant General is the supreme military officer of the state and concurrently serves as Commissioner of Defense, Veterans', and Emergency Management (DVEM). The vacancy was created by the retirement of Major General John W. "Bill" Libby on March 16. Since that time, Robert McAleer, Director of the Maine Emergency Management Agency, has served as Acting Commissioner.
"I want to thank Rob McAleer for stepping up when the Department needed a steady hand at the helm. He has done a fine job keeping the Department running smoothly," said Governor LePage. "I would also like to thank Commissioner Winglass and the Adjutant General selection committee for their service. The quality of officers in the Maine National Guard made their job extremely difficult."
Campbell is expected to be sworn in as Acting Commissioner in the coming weeks after completing his orders at Central Command. His nomination is subject to review by the Committee on Veterans and Legal Affairs and confirmation by the Maine Senate during their September session.
The selection committee in charge of reviewing all eligible personnel in the Maine National Guard and making recommendations to the Governor was completely comprised of retired military, including both officers and senior enlisted. Chaired by Labor Commissioner Robert Winglass, the committee included Public Safety Commissioner John Morris, Kennebec County Sherriff Randall Liberty, Debra Moulton, Jeff Woolston, William Dubord, and Gilman Pelletier.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=409963&v=article2011
