Public Statements
Radio Address: The First 500 Days
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: May 19, 2012
Location: Unknown

A copy of the Governor's First 500 Days Accomplishments Booklet click here.
A lot can happen in 500 days.
Hello. This is Governor Paul LePage.
At my inauguration I said: if it is to be, it is up to us to move Maine forward.
When I took the oath on January 5, 2011, I had plans to make Maine prosperous. During the past 500 days those plans have been put into motion.
With hard work and determination this Administration is moving Maine back on a track to financial stability, streamlining government, and providing tax relief for thousands of Mainers.
We are also making Maine more business friendly.
Maine people deserve prosperity, and it is our responsibility to promote polices that will help reduce the burden on our job creators so they can invest, expand and provide good jobs for Mainers.
We have more than 40,000 businesses in Maine and it's difficult to select just a few that stand out, but in an effort to recognize a handful of companies for their commitment to excellence, I highlighted a few this past week.
For 22 years it has been a tradition for the Governor to hand out awards for business excellence. These companies are honored for showing a high level of commitment to their community, employees and to manufacturing or service excellence.
Fair Point Communications has been a sponsor of the Governor's Awards for the past five years now and we appreciate their support.
This year's winner are: Allen Insurance and Financial of Camden; James D. Julia of Fairfield; Moose River Lumber Company of Moose River; Saddleback Maine of Rangeley; Tambrands, Incorporated of Auburn; and Volk Packaging of Biddeford.
Congratulations to all.
My primary goals are to continue to build this economy, increase our competitiveness and help businesses like these create good paying jobs.
We will do this by streamlining government, removing red tape, reforming welfare, lowering taxes, improving our education system and reducing energy costs.
During the last 500 days, we have provided $400 million in tax relief for Mainers, removing more than 70,000 Mainers from the income tax rolls.
We have also provided $31 million in immediate tax relief for investments made in Maine by job creators.
By investing in business we are investing in more jobs. And when you pay less taxes we are helping our economy because it's likely you'll spend that money right here in Maine.
This IS moving Maine in the right direction and I am determined to do more, not for me, but for every Mainer I represent.
Thank you for listening.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=381017&v=article
