Public Statements
Governor Celebrates New Investment and Jobs in Central Maine
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: April 17, 2012
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul LePage joined J.S. McCarthy Printers' officials today to officially start a new 85-foot long Japanese-manufactured printing press that can simultaneously print both sides of a 28-inch by 40-inch sheet of paper in less than a quarter of a second.
"By staying two steps ahead with our technology and focusing upon lean manufacturing principles," says Rick Tardiff, President of J.S. McCarthy, "we have become a leading US printer experiencing our three most successful years during this recession." Sales reached $23 million in 2010, $30 million in 2011 and are expected to top $35 million this year.
"Not only does this machine propel this small Maine Company into the limelight of world printing companies," Governor LePage says, "it also shows how innovative management and highly-skilled Maine workers can grow high-tech manufacturing right here into a world class operation. We're also excited to learn McCarthy's has added 15 new high quality jobs in the last year alone with another 10 coming this year."
With offices in Portland, Boston, Hartford and New York, McCarthy Printers employs 175 people, 145 based in the 60-year-old company's Augusta headquarters, where $15 million was invested in plant and equipment since 2007. Two-thirds of McCarthy's work is for clients outside Maine. Products range from corporate annual reports, college collateral shipped throughout the US, greeting cards, folding cartons for food and other products, ad agency work, high end real estate products for New York City clients, and products for the cosmetics and fashion industries.
The new machine, an eight-color Japanese-built Komori press with ultraviolet printing capabilities was delivered to McCarthy late last year, joining two other large Komori presses. The new 85-foot long unit can print15,000 sheets of 28"x40" paper (both sides simultaneously) per hour.
"As one of New England's oldest and largest sheet-fed printers, McCarthy maintains a competitive edge by delivering top-notch customer service, constant technological innovation and superior quality of product," says Tardiff, "and, we focus upon being lean and green."
McCarthy has adopted lean manufacturing principals and installed technologies to cut waste and improve speeds while retaining or improving quality. "For example, preparing presses for set up used to take 60 to 80 minutes and consume 1,200 to 1,500 sheets of paper waste per job. We now average about 30 minutes and about 400 sheets per job, a huge savings considering we do 1100 set ups per month." Tardiff said.
The company relies exclusively on wind power for electricity, recycles 140 tons of waste paper a month, maintains precise climate control in its plant and employs other measures to protect the environment and the workplace. With its known commitment to efficiency the company is often selected by manufacturers to test and help perfect new equipment. "We have replaced 16 printing presses with three new Komori units and are hugely committed to this excellent relationship with our manufacturers." Tardiff said.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=373412&v=article2011
