Public Statements
Governor LePage Announces Details of Bills Aimed at Honoring our Veterans
Press Release
By: Paul LePage Charles Summers, Jr.
Date: Feb. 29, 2012
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul LePage introduced legislation today which focuses on honoring our veterans, and helping them market their military training in the private sector. Making the announcement in the Governor's Cabinet Room, the Governor was joined by First Lady Ann LePage, Adjutant General John W. Libby, Secretary of State Charlie Summers, Commissioner Anne Head and several veterans.
"Our administration is working hard to help veterans market their military training and skills, aiding them in the transition back to civilian life," said Governor LePage. "It is our responsibility to honor these courageous men and women, and assist them to maximize their skill sets to find good jobs back at home."
Two bills presented Wednesday highlight professional licensing for military experience and a funding for War Memorial. The Governor's first proposed law seeks to authorize the Commissioner of the Department of Professional & Financial Regulation to review and suggest changes to rules, regulations, and statutes to accommodate and recognize military experience in professional licensure.
The Governor's second bill authorizes the Bureau of Veterans' Services to collect private funds to establish a War Memorial plaque for all military operations not currently covered (i.e. Desert Storm, Panama, etc.).
"As Americans, it is important that we come together to recognize the courageous service of our men and women in uniform," said First Lady Ann LePage. "It is our responsibility to honor the lives of our fallen troops, and this War Memorial plaque is another reminder of the sacrifices our military personnel and their families have made," added the First Lady.
In addition to the two pieces of legislation, the Office of the Secretary of State announced the reduction of red tape for our veterans. Veterans within a certain window will be able to receive a commercial driver's license with just the written test, waiving the road test.
"This action by the state is longer overdue," said Secretary of State Charlie Summers. "I commend the Governor and First Lady for their efforts in assisting our veterans as they transition from military to civilian life. This will allow them to employ the skills they have gained while serving our country without having to go through unnecessary training; training they have already received," said Summers.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=356752&v=article2011
