Public Statements
Governor LePage Announces DMR Report Complete and Available for Public Review
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Sept. 9, 2011
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul LePage announced Friday a program review of the Maine Department of Marine Resources (DMR) is complete and available to the public. The 90 page report illustrates management and mission based areas for improvement.
Governor LePage seeks to assure a sustainable marine resource base that is utilized to the greatest extent in support of the fishing industry. After review of the report, which was compiled by independent consultants Pete Jensen, David Wallace and David Borden, the Governor believes it to be an excellent tool and set of recommendations to be used going forward with the priority setting and reorganization under zero based budgeting.
Earlier this year, all commissioners including the DMR former commissioner were asked by the Governor to assess all operations, procedures and policies in order to improve department functions. With the Governor's support, the former commissioner chose to seek independent consultants to review DMR which resulted in this report.
With more than three dozen recommendations put forth in the report the administration is unable to comment at this time on each. However, as an example of some of the recommendations the administration is keenly interested in pursuing further are: priority setting, making Maine a more "fish business friendly state", the role of management plans within the department, a better link between science and resource management, attention on opening clam flats, staff training opportunities and others.
The Governor is committed to assure DMR and all state agencies are fully executing their statutory mission, but before any legislative or policy based proposals are made they will be subject to robust review of the administration and will also be subject to the review and consideration of the full Marine Resource Committee of the Legislature.
"The zero based budgeting process will consider these and other ideas for reforms within DMR. Restructuring, reorganization, efficiency improvements will all be on the table," said the Governor. "Staff is dedicated and professional, but it is time to refocus and rethink the direction of the Department."
A complete copy of the report can be found online on the Maine Department of Marine Resources website at http://www.maine.gov/dmr/news/dmrreview9-2-11.htm

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=301008&v=article2011
