Public Statements
Governor Leads Zero-Based Budgeting Sessions
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Aug. 23, 2011
Location: Augusta, ME

In an effort to assist state officials implement zero-based budgeting practices, this week two informational seminars were led by the Office of the Governor. Governor Paul LePage joined Department of Administrative and Financial Services Commissioner Sawin Millett to reinforce to department heads the importance of zero-based budgeting for the next biennium.
More than a dozen state officials including commissioners and department financial advisors attended one of two zero-based budgeting seminars held Monday and Tuesday in the Cabinet room at the Office of the Governor. Zero-based budgeting is a planning and budgeting tool that uses cost-benefit analysis of programs and activities to improve the allocation of funds and staff resources in an organization.
Governor LePage emphasized to commissioners that every program must be examined to calculate the need versus benefit to the State of Maine. "Programs need to fit within the core mission of their Department," said the Governor. "We need to make sure the programs we undertake have a benefit to taxpayers and are living up to the core missions."
On Wednesday, Commissioner Millett will hold a zero-based budgeting briefing for all interested media members. The Commissioner will compare zero-based budgeting with the current budget process. He will also explain how the process relates to the efforts of the Streamline and Prioritize Core Government Services Task Force which has been directed by the Legislature to locate a minimum of $25 million in savings in fiscal year 2012-13. Governor LePage has already urged commissioners to find additional savings through zero-based budgeting, but has not set a specific goal for departments.
Wednesday's media briefing will be held in the Cabinet room at 9:30am.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=288387&v=article2011
