Public Statements
Radio Address: Stay Safe on Maine Waters this Summer
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: July 16, 2011
Location: Unknown

The soaring temperatures and tourists have reminded us that it's summertime in Maine.
Hello, This is Governor Paul LePage.
We're not nicknamed Vacationland for nothing. Every year thousands of visitors travel to our beautiful State to enjoy everything it has to offer -- from our mountains to our coastline. Maine is worth the visit and for many Maine is worth a lifetime.
If you're vacationing here, we welcome you. As you take a tour of our great State you'll find some of the most scenic views -- in fact, only 95 roads in the U.S. are designated National Scenic Byways or All-American Roads and Maine has four of them. They include the Acadian Byway that runs through Acadia National Park and the Old Canada Road National Scenic Byway that takes you through the woodlands to the Canadian border.
But there's more to Maine than its Parks and Forests -- we are home to 32-thousand miles of rivers and streams, and nearly 5-thousand miles of coastline.
Fishing, boating, canoeing, kayaking and white water rafting are some of the activities we enjoy. Whether you're a Mainer or vacationer I hope you'll stay safe on our waters this summer.
If you're boating I would like to remind you
* when heading out either by yourself or with a group, always tell someone where you are going.
* Keep a close eye to the weather forecast to prepare for any unexpected changes such as thunderstorms, wind, and fog.
* Leave alcohol on shore - Each year, the Maine Warden Service takes part in Operation Dry Water, a nationwide effort to reduce the number of impaired boaters on our waterways.
And please, please
* Wear a life jacket
State law requires each person on board to have a properly-fitting life jacket in the boat. Kids under the age of 10 are required to wear one. The Maine Warden Service recommends that everyone wear a life jacket while on the water.
Unfortunately, five people have lost their lives on Maine waters this summer. My sincerest condolences go out to the families that have lost a loved one.
I want you to be safe and have fun on Maine's waters this summer. Plan for a safe trip before you go out. To get information on how to be a safer boater, the Maine Warden Service and Maine Marine Patrol have published "The Boater's Guide to Maine's Boating Laws and Responsibilities." It is chock full of tips, checklists, boating basics and state boating laws. It can be found wherever you register your boat statewide or on the Maine Department of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife's website.
Thank you for listening. Stay safe and get out and enjoy Maine.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=269329&v=article
