Public Statements
Governor LePage Orders Executive Order Addressing State Property Sales
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: July 11, 2011
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul LePage issued a statement Monday regarding a recent opinion from Attorney General William Schneider. The opinion involves the purported sale of real estate to a State employee and a subsequent lease back to the State of a building located on the property.
In a July 8, 2011 letter to Department of Administrative and Financial Services (DFAS) Commissioner Sawin Millett and Ms. Patricia Barnhart, Attorney General Schneider writes, "Because Ms. Barnhart is employed by the State as the Warden of the Maine State Prison and was so employed during the time period which this transaction took place, it is my opinion that the Contract, Release Deed, and Lease and Memorandum of Lease are void under the terms of title 17, section 3104 of the Maine Revised Statutes."
The real estate transaction involving property located at 22, 26, and 30 Ship Circle in Thomaston, Maine began in the fall of 2010 under the previous Administration and was consummated through the Department of Administrative and Financial Services in June 2011.
Under the direction of the 124th Legislature, the FY 10/11 budget was to be balanced, in part, by booking $1.5 million dollars in anticipated revenue from the sale of a list of State-owned properties which included the Ship Circle properties in Thomaston.
Governor LePage was informed about the sale last week and had no prior knowledge of the deal. Upon review of the details the Governor issued an executive order immediately. The order establishes that The Department of Administrative and Financial Services will create internal policy guidance for sales of state-owned real estate.
"While it is disconcerting that questions about this sale were not raised during this process I am confident the measures I am taking now will prevent similar situations from occurring in the future," said Governor LePage.
"The people's business is to be done openly and Mainers must be able to trust the process in which State business is conducted."

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=267230&v=article2011
