Public Statements
Governor LePage Inks Signature on Charter School Bill
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: June 29, 2011
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul LePage signed on Wednesday the charter school bill that creates more educational options for students. LD 1553 allows for the formation of public charter schools in Maine for the first time.
Governor LePage high-fived a group of students seated behind a desk in the Hall of Flags before sitting down to sign the bill at a State House ceremony.
"This is all about the kids," said Governor LePage. "This is about giving students choices in their education that will help them succeed. Every student deserves an education that works for him or her and public charter schools, which are approved and working in 40 other states, are one more way we can reach those children."
Senator Garrett Mason (R -- Androscoggin)echoed the Governor's remarks stressing the importance of putting Maine children first. "Let me be very clear -- the traditional public school system works great for most Maine kids, but the system we need to strive for is one that truly leaves no child behind," Sen. Mason said. "Charter schools recognize that publice school innovation in pursuit of excellence is long overdue. Charter schools are not a silver bullet, but part of a new educational silver buckshot that will increase our chances of reaching every Maine child."
Under the new law, a school district, group of school districts, or a new state charter commission can charter a school. Public charter schools have more flexibility than traditional public schools. While they are subject to the same state assessments and federal accountability requirements, charter schools can: implement innovative governance structures, such as teacher-leaders; may be flexible with their learning schedules, offering evening or weekend class time; can orient instruction toward a particular style of learning; and can hire teachers who may have particular experiences but not state certification.

Source:
