Public Statements
Radio Address: The Reality about Tax Relief
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: June 4, 2011
Location: Unknown

As we head into the summer season Mainers plan to drive a lot less. That's according to a recent poll that puts blame on high gas prices.
Hello, this is Governor Paul LePage.
It's no surprise that Mainers are cutting back on spending. Prices at the pump aren't the only thing going up. The tab at the grocery store is also inflating as a result of higher food prices. And in a short three months many Mainers will be filling up their oil tanks on a regular basis -- at a cost that, too, is on the rise.
That's why it is crucial that tax reform is included in our two-year budget. Legislators have my proposal in front of them and the deadline is looming.
My tax relief package benefits approximately two-thirds of Maine taxpayers. It's a tax break for Mainers in a time when they need it most.
A family of four will be able to earn as much as 35-thousand dollars a year before paying any state income tax. The current number is just over 21-thousand. To say that these are tax cuts for the rich is not the reality, in fact it is absurd.
This plan conforms personal exemptions and deductions to the federal standard. It eliminates the 2, 4.5 and 7% tax brackets, and lowers the top rate.
This combination of eliminating brackets, lowering the top rate, and conforming to federal standards means that 70-thousand low income families will no longer have to pay any income tax.
In addition, this proposal will help Maine farms and businesses. It does so by increasing the death tax exemption from 1 to 2 million. This is not a gimmick for the wealthy -- this is an effort to save struggling farms and small businesses. Talk to a farmer or a small business owner about how quickly their equipment and property can add up to one million dollars. Let's give our farmers and business people the flexibility to keep Mainers working.
Maine is not out of the recession. In fact, less than 2% of the state population believes our economy is back on track according to a recent poll by Pan Atlantic SMS Group.
Another survey indicates that Mainers are most worried about their jobs. With so much on the line we need a budget that helps rather than hinders job growth. We need a budget that puts Maine back on the road to prosperity and money in the pockets of those who need it most.
As Governor I am committed to improving our quality of life, encouraging economic growth and protecting the future of our great State. I urge you to reach out to your Representative and Senator. Ask them to pass my budget.
There is no doubt there were tough decisions made about what is included and not included in this plan, but it is a responsible approach that has the tools to get Maine back on track toward a more prosperous future.
I thank you for listening to my perspective and hope you will contact your Representative and Senator.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=256654&v=article
