Public Statements
Radio Address: Maine Needs Jobs
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: April 30, 2011
Location: Unknown

Maine needs jobs. Economic growth must be a priority for our state government.
This is Governor Paul LePage and each and every day I have been focused on what we must do together to create jobs in the State of Maine.
This week I was proud to announce new jobs coming to Maine.
These new jobs will be coming to Brunswick Landing, the former location of Brunswick Naval Air Station.
I was pleased to be joined at my jobs announcement by United States Senator Susan Collins, local economic development leaders and representatives of the American Bureau of Shipping, a nationally recognized organization bringing the jobs to Maine.
Establishing these new computer-based ship modeling jobs in Maine helps us send a message that Maine is Open for Business.
This is a step in the right direction. But we must do more.
I have been working with Legislative Leaders and members of my administration to make the changes necessary to bring even more jobs to Maine.
Part of that focus is our continued effort to stop red tape government bureaucracy hurting job growth.
Late last year, even before I took office, I visited with small businesses all over Maine to find out what needed to be done in order to create jobs in their area.
They consistently talked about changing state government so that we provide a hand up not a negative attitude to job creating small businesses.
As part of that effort we launched a Red Tape hotline so we could find problems that needed to be fixed to create jobs.
If you own or are involved in a small business that wants to create more jobs but has run into negative government bureaucracy we want to hear from you.
The red tape hotline is 624-7486. Please write it down and call us if we can help remove red tape and create jobs. The number again is 624-7486.
I have spent my life creating jobs and the LePage administration will continue to focus on growing jobs in Maine.
Anne and I wish you a great weekend.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=239411&v=article
