Public Statements
Capitol for a Day is a Success in Sagadahoc County
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: April 23, 2011
Location: Augusta, ME

Governor Paul LePage toured several companies, met with dozens of business leaders and answered questions from a crowd of two-hundred during his third Capitol for a Day event. Capitol for a Day was held Friday in Sagadahoc county beginning at noon at Bath Iron Works.
"We were very pleased the Governor made Bath Iron Works one of his stops on today's Capital for a Day visit to Sagadahoc County. It gave us an excellent opportunity to acquaint him with BIW and our current shipbuilding business environment," said BIW Spokesman Jim DeMartini. "In the course of discussions, a brief tour of the shipyard and a visit to Spruance (DDG 111) we were able highlight the accomplishments of our highly skilled work force and show him first-hand some of the innovative things we are doing. We appreciate Governor LePage including us in his very tight schedule and we are looking forward to his participation in the christening of Michael Murphy (DDG 112) on May 7," DeMartini added.
Governor LePage's second stop was at FHC, Inc. located in Bowdoin. FHC designs, manufactures, and internationally markets quality products for neuroscience, the study of the brain and nervous system, and neurosurgical research.
FHC, Inc. President Keri S. Seitz offered, "Governor LePage showed an eager interest in the technology behind our products, as well as in our people and understood some of the challenges we face in worldwide distribution of our products. He was wonderful with the children in our on-site child care center, teaching a couple of the older kids how to shake hands."
In addition, the Governor visited earthwork and paving contractor Harry C. Crooker & Sons and The Highlands independent living center both located in Topsham. "I continue to be impressed with the Mainers I meet and the work they do," said Governor LePage. "From the logistics of building a 10-thousand ton ship, creation of microelectrodes that enhance the lives of those living with Parkinson's disease to the hard work it takes to keep a family business alive and fine quality of care given to our seniors -- these companies are providing top quality service right in our backyard."
Rounding out the afternoon, business leaders met with Governor LePage at Priority Group, LLC and the Southern Mid-coast Chamber of Commerce. Priority Group President Jim Howard helped raise more than three-thousand dollars from local businesses to benefit the Tedford Housing Homeless Shelter in Brunswick. A check was presented to Tedford Housing President Joel Merry outside the shelter where Governor LePage listened to several folks who are current guests. He offered encouragement to each of them, including a mother of several young children who told the Governor about her struggle to find affordable housing in the area. Another woman explained how she plans to start cosmetology school soon to help her get back on her feet.
Capitol for a Day in Sagadahoc County concluded at Mt. Ararat Middle School where nearly two-hundred Mainers attended a town hall meeting. The Governor, State Treasurer Bruce Poliquin and Commissioners were asked a multitude of questions ranging from education and social services to regulatory and pension reform.
Capitol for a Day will be held in each of Maine's sixteen counties. Sagadahoc County was the third Capitol for a Day event since February. The next event is scheduled to take place in Lincoln county this May.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=235995&v=article2011
