Public Statements
Regulatory Reform Gaining Speed in Augusta
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: April 7, 2011
Location: Augusta, ME

Republican leaders in the executive and legislative branch heralded the progress on regulatory reform at the State House. Earlier this week the Joint Select Committee on Regulatory Fairness and Reform reached bipartisan agreement on the components on their proposal and a public hearing on the bill has been set for 1:00 PM on April 14th at the State House.
Regulatory reform has been a focus of Republican leadership in Augusta since the November Election. More than a month before taking office, Governor LePage kicked off an initial red tape workshop in Augusta where job creators came together to discuss opportunities for improving Maine's regulatory climate. Over a thousand business owners and managers offered ideas at the twenty five red tape workshop sessions hosted throughout Maine by local chambers of commerce.
The bipartisan membership of the Joint Select Committee on Regulatory Fairness and Reform took a similar approach, holding field hearings throughout Maine to solicit public comment on improving Maine's business climate.
Senate Majority Leader Jonathan Courtney of York is the Senate Chair of the Joint Select Committee on Regulatory Fairness and Reform. "We have pretty strong bipartisan support, and frankly, this is just a first step of changing the culture of State Government," Sen. Courtney said. "The Administration has already started to change that culture and I believe it will manifest itself and improve Maine's economic environment. I'm looking forward to working with the Administration to continue down that path of change."
Representative Jonathan McKane of New Castle is the House Chair of the committee. "I've wanted for a long time to change Augusta's attitude toward business in this state and I believe we have finally started the process," said Representative McKane. "We have worked overtime listening, learning and doing our best to try and solve the regulatory problems that we have been shown."

Source:
