Public Statements
Radio Address: Helping our Sister-State
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: March 26, 2011
Location: Unknown

In 1889 a ship from Bath, Maine known as the Chesebrough was destroyed off the coast of the Aomori Prefecture of Japan. A handful of the crew from the vessel were saved and cared for by local villagers.
A bond that began in disaster over a hundred years ago off the coast of a small coastal village in Japan led to the establishment of a sister-state between Maine and the Aomori Prefecture in 1996.
The relationship between our governments has opened the door to a strong and friendly relationship with people on the other side of the globe.
Our public schools and universities have sponsored exchanges that have given students and instructors insights into another culture. Our museums have exchanged exhibits and artifacts to enrich their collections and the experience of museum patrons.
And we have sought opportunities to expand our economy through trade missions and programs that give Maine products access to new markets.
The relationship between Maine and its sister state of Aomori, Japan began in disaster more a hundred years ago when a ship from Bath wrecked on the Japanese coast.
The kindness that was shown our shipwrecked sailors a century ago has built a bond between our people. Now that Japan has suffered through a disastrous earthquake and tsunami, we need to help our friends in Japan during their time of need.
I urge all Mainers who are able to consider a contribution to the Maine Friends of Aomori Relief Fund.
A contribution can be made at any Maine Branch of TD Bank. Or you can mail a contribution care/of the Maine Friends of Aomori Relief Fund, TD Bank, 790 Lisbon Street, Lewiston, 04240
Trusted members of the Maine-Aomori Sister-State Advisory Council with years of experience and contacts in Japan are administering the fund. Money collected here in Maine will be transferred directly to official Aomori relief agencies to help the victims of the natural disaster. You can be assured that your contribution will go directly to helping those people in need.
I know times are tight here in Maine. If you can spare a small contribution, please consider a gift to aid the victims in our sister-state of Aomori.
Thank you for listening and enjoy your weekend.

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Radio_Addresses&id=221622&v=article
