Public Statements
An Order Establishing the Governor's Business Advisory Council
Statement
By: Paul LePage
Date: March 3, 2011
Location: Augusta, ME

AN ORDER ESTABLISHING THE GOVERNOR'S BUSINESS ADVISORY COUNCIL
WHEREAS, job creation and growth of the Maine economy is dependent upon private industry;
WHEREAS, there are individuals with experience leading successful Maine businesses that are willing to serve their state;
WHEREAS, these men and women know first-hand the effects of legislation and regulation on the Maine business climate; and
WHEREAS, Maine will benefit by having the non-partisan voices of business actively engaged in the discussion of what must be done to rebuild our economy and create sustainable, well-paying jobs for the current and future generations of Maine;
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Paul R. LePage, Governor of the State of Maine, hereby order as follows:
1. The Governor's Business Advisory Council ("Council") is hereby established. The Council shall serve as a successor organization to the Governor's Council on Competitiveness and the Economy created by Executive Order 08 FY 08/09 on November 19, 2007.

2. The membership of the Council shall consist of at least eighteen (18) and not more than twenty-five (25) persons, including the following four (4) members serving ex officio:
a. Commissioner of Economic and Community Development; b. Commissioner of Labor; c. President of the University of Maine System; and d. President of the Maine Community College System.
The remaining members shall be appointed by the Governor to serve at his pleasure, representing a cross-section of Maine industries and Maine businesses, both small and large. The Governor shall appoint one member of the Council to serve as chair at his pleasure. Members of the Council shall serve without compensation. The Office of the Governor shall provide administrative support to the council.
1. The duties of the council shall include:
a. Advising the Governor on ways to improve Maine's business climate to help foster the growth of existing Maine companies, promote the creation of new start-up ventures, and encourage existing companies to invest in and relocate to Maine; and b. Providing the Governor with a first-hand perspective of the challenges faced by businesses.
1. The Council shall meet with the Governor bi-monthly.
2. Recognizing that candid conversations are necessary to present a complete picture of Maine's economic climate, that such conversations may include examples containing confidential, proprietary, or privileged information, and the Council's duties are solely advisory in nature, the records and activities of the Board are exempt from the application of Title 1, Chapter 13, Subchapter 1 pursuant to 1 M.R.S.A. 402(2)(F).
The effective date of this Executive Order is March 3, 2011.
Paul R. LePage, Governor

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov_Executive_Orders&id=205612&v=article2011
