Public Statements
Governor LePage to Kick Off "Capitol for a Day" Program
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Feb. 16, 2011
Location: Augusta, ME

The Governor is keeping to his word by kicking off the first "Capitol for a Day" event Friday. Governor Paul LePage will visit businesses and meet with the public in an effort to learn more about what's going on in local communities. During his inaugural speech the Governor promised he would re-introduce the "Capitol for a Day" program which Governor McKernan began during his Administration.
"Capitol for a Day" was created by Governor McKernan in an effort to bring the "two Maines" together after his 1986 election. Governor McKernan and members of his Cabinet would conduct the business of state government in a community rather than Augusta. Governor LePage plans to continue the tradition by attending monthly town hall meetings in one of Maine's sixteen counties and visiting businesses throughout Maine. The Office of the Governor will be working with local business owners, members of Chambers of Commerce and Rotary Clubs to schedule the "Capitol for a Day" program in towns and cities.
On Friday, four Portland businesses will be the focus of "Capitol for a Day" starting with a tour of National Semiconductor. Governor LePage will then tour Barber Foods, Harbor Fish Market and Preble Street Resource Center. The business tours will be followed by a town hall meeting in Westbrook. Hundreds of people are expected to attend the public meeting at Westbrook Performing Arts Center where members of the audience will be given the opportunity to submit questions to the Governor. Doors will open at 5:15pm. The meeting will begin at 6pm.
Governor LePage believes strongly in staying informed from the people of Maine and the town hall meeting is a way to hear directly from them. "We are going to get around and learn from the people of Maine," said Governor Lepage. "If there is problem that I can help fix I want to know about it. If there is an issue I can bring clarity to I need to know what it is. Solutions can't be found behind a desk in Augusta. I need to be working out in the communities with the people to find answers that make sense for everyone and that is what the "Capitol for a Day" program is about."

Source:
