Public Statements
Governor LePage Highlights Efforts to Improve Education
Press Release
By: Paul LePage
Date: Jan. 27, 2011
Location: Augusta, ME

In an effort to highlight effective education Governor Paul LePage today signed a proclamation recognizing "School Choice Week" in Maine. On January 23 - 29, 2011, School Choice advocates will gather all across the nation to shine a spotlight on effective education options for every child.
According to The Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), America's students rank 35th in reading and math below China and Japan. "We need to do better," said Governor LePage. The Governor believes that our educational system should be the stepping stone which provides students the ability to succeed. "Research has shown that providing children with various schooling options improves academic performance," said Governor LePage.
If you would like to learn more about school choice week please visit www.schoolchoiceweek.com
The proclamation text is as follows:
WHEREAS, all children in Maine should have the right to the highest-quality schools possible; and
WHEREAS, citizens across Maine agree that improving the quality of education in Maine and expanding access to great schools should be an issue of importance to our state's leaders; and
WHEREAS, Maine has a multitude of high quality public and independent schools; and
WHEREAS research in Maine and across our nation demonstrates conclusively that providing children with multiple schooling options improves academic performance,
NOW, THEREFORE, I, PAUL R. LEPAGE, do hereby recognize January 23-29, 2011 as
MAINE SCHOOL CHOICE WEEK
throughout the State of Maine, and urge all citizens to recognize this observance.
In testimony whereof, I have caused the Great Seal of the State to be hereunto affixed GIVEN under my hand at Augusta this twentieth day of January Two-Thousand Eleven
Paul R. LePage Governor
Charles E. Summers, Jr. Secretary of State

Source: http://www.maine.gov/tools/whatsnew/index.php?topic=Gov+News&id=191243&v=article2011
