Public Statements
Issue Position: Young People Leaving Maine
Issue Position
By: Paul LePage
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

Our young people are leaving Maine in droves. By median age, Maine
is the oldest state in the nation. Our economic, societal, and political
consequence of this exodus of youth has many repurcussions to our
future as a viable state.
The economic impact of losing our best, brightest and most motivated
youth is impacting our ability to support government services. When you
have young entrepeneurs with wealth creating ideas flee from our state,
the burden for paying for the welfare state falls directly on the working
man and woman, and there are fewer of us every year.
The societal impact of losing our youth is damaging as well. Families
become estranged, and the loss of relatinoships impacts our loves. Our
communities lose the vibrancy they once had when our communities
were more balanced among age groups.
The loss of our youth creates a political environment that is less confident
of the future, more resistant to change, and more likely to expand entitle-
ment programs. To turn this tide, we must be prepared to embrace many
new ideas and question how we are currently managing our resources.
As Governor, I would support new initiatives to create opportunities which
nurture the environment that young people desire. The following are some
of these ideas:
*Work closely with Universities and Colleges, local economic
development groups and Councils of Government to establish
incubators for new young start-ups, utilizing the skills learned
by our young graduates.
*Work in developing the creative economy into incubator business
campuses.
*Create a world class virtual medical school for a healthier Maine.
*Invest in science and technology to attract sustainable jobs.
*Reform our State tax and regulations codes.
*Invest in the State's public transportation infrastructure.
*Improve education standards to have our students ready for the
workforce.
*Create revolving low interest loan opportunities for innovative and creative start-up businesses.
*Become the "Food Basket" to the Northeast by investing in ourAgriculture infrastructure.

Source: http://www.lepage2010.com/positions.php
