Public Statements
Issue Position: Tax Reform
Issue Position
By: Paul LePage
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

Reducing the overall tax burden for all Maine citizens is my vision for tax
reform. Let's be clear, genuine tax reform is not shifting the tax burden
from one individual or group to another. What separates me from my
opponents, including Republicans, Democrats and Independents, is that
I am the only candidate for Governor, that has consistently lowered the tax
burden on the people I was elected to serve.
As Mayor, I set a goal to ensure property tax reduction each year from the
year after I took office without cutting existing city services. By seeking
organizational efficiencies, applying sound business principles, and ad-
vocating for the best interests of the taxpayers. I succeeded in that goal.
Specifically we:
*reduced Property Taxes each year,
*increased the City's Rainy Day fund from $1 million to $10 million,
*and raised our Standard & Poor's credit rating from an A-minus to
an A-Plus.
As Governor, I pledge to emulate the Waterville's success in lowering
property taxes by lowering the tax burden for all Maine citizens. To acc-
omplish this goal, state government will practice the same discipline
and fiscal responsibility with the taxpayer's money that any responsible
individual applies to their own personal finances.
Therefore, I will aggressively pursue tax reform measures that will grow
our economy and allow individuals and businesses to keep more of their
hard earned money.
I will support:
*Reducing the personal income tax rate to a flat 5% beginning at a
gross family income of $30,000.
*Reducing the corporate income tax rate to a flat 5% beginning with a
pre-tax profit of $30,000 to $500,000 and to drop the rate over
$500,001 to a flat 4%.
*Reinstating the indexing of Maine income taxes and contribution
deductions to current federal guidelines.
*Reducing the "sin" taxes by at least 25%.
*Requiring that the automobile excise tax be based on the vehicle
net purchase price instead of manufacturer's list price and a
reduction of the excise tax of 20% per year there on.
*Eliminating all personal property taxes over four years, beginning
in 2012.
*Replacing the current Homestead Exemption program with a
broader based program that provides tax relief to all Maine resident
property owners.
*And, limiting the use of Tax Increment Financing District's to their
original intent, which was to offset the high cost of capital for
manufacturing and large commercial projects.
Finally, I will oppose any effort to:
Repeal existing exemptions for goods, services, and labor from the state
sales tax, including Governor Baldacci's and the legislature's most recent
effort in LD 1495. And I will oppose any effort to implement a local option
sales tax.

Source: http://www.lepage2010.com/positions.php
