Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce American Standard Brands to Open New Manufacturing Facility in Davidson County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 28, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with American Standard Brands officials announced today the company will establish a new manufacturing and distribution facility in Davidson County. American Standard Brands, a leading North American manufacturer of stylish, high-performance bathroom and kitchen fixtures and fittings, will invest $22 million and create approximately 600 new jobs in La Vergne. This is the first new U.S.-based manufacturing facility for American Standard Brands in more than 25 years.
"We want to thank American Standard Brands for choosing to expand in Tennessee and for its investment in La Vergne and Davidson County," Haslam said. "World renowned brands call Tennessee home and are growing in our business-friendly environment. We look forward to American Standard's continued success, as today's announcement brings us one step closer to our goal of becoming the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"This is an exciting announcement for Tennessee, as we welcome American Standard Brand's expansion," Boyd said. "In order to support this respected company's future growth, we're working hard to create the most aligned state in the nation when it comes to matching workforce development preparedness with company needs. I appreciate the new jobs American Standard Brands is bringing to our communities and I look forward to working with them in the future."
This new facility in Davidson County will allow American Standard Brands to expand its operational footprint and increase efficiency through enhanced supply chain connectivity.
"We are pleased to expand our U.S. manufacturing base to increase efficiencies for our customers through an enhanced supply chain," Steve Delarge, chief executive officer and chief financial officer of American Standard Brands, said. "The quality workforce and favorable business environment in Davidson County made a compelling business case for us to select Middle Tennessee for our new operation."
"American Standard Brands will be bringing many attractive jobs to Davidson County, and we appreciate the company's investment here," Nashville Mayor Karl Dean said. "American Standard's legacy of quality and innovation is well-matched with the talented workforce and high-quality transportation infrastructure in Nashville. This announcement speaks to our business-friendly environment, the area's high quality of life and the vibrancy of our city."
"The Tennessee Department of Labor and Workforce Development welcomes American Standard Brands to our state and we look forward to partnering with their team to find a skilled and qualified workforce," Sterling van der Spuy, Workforce Services Administrator for the Tennessee Department of Labor and Workforce Development, said. "The energy and excitement of working with this company emphasizes the numerous assets that continue to attract quality companies providing opportunities for the citizens we serve. Thank you for choosing Tennessee."
"TVA and Nashville Electric Service congratulate American Standard Brands on its announcement to locate and create 600 new jobs in Davidson County," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are pleased to partner with the state of Tennessee, Nashville Electric Service, Metro Government of Nashville and Davidson County, and the Nashville Area Chamber of Commerce to support American Standard's success in its new operations in Nashville."
American Standard Brands produces faucets, toilets, sinks, showers, tubs and other wellness products for the bath and kitchen. From its headquarters in New Jersey, the Company innovates breakthrough solutions for residential and commercial customers marketed under the brand names American Standard®, DXV®, Safety Tubs®, Crane Plumbing®, Eljer®, Fiat® and Decorative Panels International®. Products are distributed nationwide through an extensive network of plumbing wholesalers and showrooms, do-it-yourself home centers, retail and hardware stores, specialty merchants and online retailers.
American Standard plans to begin operations in the fourth quarter of this year.
La Vergne and Davidson County are represented by Speaker Beth Harwell (R -- Nashville), Rep. Bo Mitchell (D -- Nashville), Rep. Bill Beck (D -- Nashville), Rep. Mike Stewart (D -- Nashville), Rep. Jason Powell (D -- Nashville), Rep. Brenda Gilmore (D -- Nashville), Rep. John Ray Clemmons (D -- Nashville), Rep. Harold Love (D -- Nashville), Rep. Sherry Jones (D -- Nashville), Rep. Darren Jernigan (D -- Old Hickory), Sen. Steven Dickerson (R -- Nashville), Sen. Ferrell Haile (R -- Gallatin), Sen. Jeff Yarbro (D -- Nashville), Sen. Thelma Harper (D -- Nashville), Sen. Bill Ketron (R -- Murfreesboro), Rep. Mike Sparks (R -- Smyrna) and Rep. Dawn White (R -- Murfreesboro).

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/16513
