Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce DE-STA-CO to Establish New Operations in Mount Juliet
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 14, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with DE-STA-CO officials announced today the company will consolidate several of its U.S. manufacturing operations by locating a new facility in Mount Juliet in an effort to better serve its North American and global customers. The Middle Tennessee facility, located at 210 Mundy Memorial Drive, will integrate product offerings and improve the company's supply chain.
DE-STA-CO specializes in the innovation, design and manufacture of clamping and robotic tooling solutions for workholding and automation needs. The project will result in the creation of 245 new jobs in Wilson County.
"Today's announcement is great news for Wilson County, and we want to thank DE-STA-CO for its decision to locate and create new jobs in Mount Juliet," Haslam said. "Tennessee's geographic location is an incredible advantage when we're out recruiting businesses to locate and grow here, and today brings us another step closer to our goal of making Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"It's always a great day when we get the opportunity to welcome a new business to the Volunteer State," Boyd said. "DE-STA-CO will be a great fit in Tennessee as it supports companies in our thriving automotive, aerospace, and food and agribusiness sectors. I thank DE-STA-CO for choosing to locate in Mount Juliet and for creating more than 200 new jobs for our Middle Tennessee workforce."
"DE-STA-CO is one company with one vision," DE-STA-CO President Mats Ceder said. "This is our overarching direction for 2015 and beyond. Capturing synergies throughout our company will result in benefits to our customers and expanding market leadership.
"This new facility supports our focus on developing and manufacturing market-leading high-performance workholding and automation solutions," Ceder added. "A consolidated manufacturing operation helps us achieve a number of customer service, innovation and efficiency goals, and positions the company for further growth."
The consolidation process will be completed in multiple phases over the next 18 to 24 months. It will include phasing out manufacturing activities at its Auburn Hills and Charlevoix, MI and Wheeling, IL facilities. DE-STA-CO will maintain its customer service and engineering presence in Auburn Hills and Wheeling, as well as its Regional Americas and corporate offices in Auburn Hills, and its remote handling equipment business in Red Wing, MN.
"We congratulate DE-STA-CO on their decision and look forward to being a part of their continued economic and program growth," Mount Juliet Mayor Ed Hagerty said. "We are confident that their decision will be a mutually rewarding experience and look forward to a long and successful partnership."
"I am excited to be a part of DE-STA-CO's announcement," Wilson County Mayor Randall Hutto said. "I want to thank the staff of the JECDB and members of the Wilson County Budget Committee for their work and commitments to DE-STA-CO. I want to also thank the state of Tennessee and their staff for all of their hard work which led to this exciting announcement."
"TVA and Middle Tennessee Electric Membership Corporation congratulate DE-STA-CO on its decision to expand operations in Wilson County and create additional job opportunities," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are pleased to partner with the state of Tennessee, the Joint Economic and Community Development Board of Wilson County, city of Mount Juliet and Wilson County officials to facilitate DE-STA-CO's growth."
A list of available positions at the Mount Juliet facility can be found at destaco.com/tnjobs.
Mount Juliet and Wilson County are represented by Sen. Mae Beavers (R -- Mt. Juliet), Rep. Susan Lynn (R -- Mt. Juliet) and Rep. Mark Pody (R -- Lebanon) in the Tennessee General Assembly.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/16130
