Public Statements
Haslam Names New DCS Commissioner
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 8, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam today announced Bonnie Hommrich as the new commissioner of the Department of Children's Services (DCS).
Hommrich has served as deputy commissioner for child programs at DCS since 2004. Her responsibilities have included the areas of child protective services, foster care, adoptions, community juvenile justice and independent living.
Hommrich, 68, has also had oversight over the Brian A. settlement agreement, participated in accreditation by the Council on Accreditation, supported implementation of the federal IV-E waiver and performance-based contracting with key private provider agencies.
"Bonnie has dedicated her entire career to helping children and families," Haslam said. "She has experience on the front lines of social work as well as in senior level positions where she has analyzed and interpreted complex information, situations and issues. I am grateful for her willingness to serve as commissioner and to have her depth of knowledge and expertise leading the department."
Before joining DCS, Hommrich spent 22 years as a social worker and assistant district manager for the Kentucky Department of Social Services. In 1998 she became the deputy commissioner for the Department of Community Based Services before becoming the principal assistant to the secretary of the Cabinet for Families and Children in 2001.
"I am deeply appreciative of the opportunity to serve the administration as commissioner for the Department of Children's Services," Hommrich said. "Under Commissioner Henry's leadership and with the dedicated commitment of staff, the department has made significant progress in achieving better outcomes for children. We are all focused on continuing this progress."
Hommrich received her bachelor's degree from the University of Louisville and her master's from the Kentucky School of Social Work.
Her husband, Denis, is retired. She has one grown son, Ted. Ted and his wife, Gigi, became parents in November of last year.
Hommrich replaces Jim Henry who is joining the governor's office as chief of staff. Both appointments will be effective August 1.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/15887
