Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Yanfeng Automotive Interiors to Establish New Manufacturing Operations In Chattanooga
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 7, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Yanfeng Automotive Interiors officials announced today the company will establish new automotive manufacturing operations in Chattanooga to support Volkswagen. Yanfeng, the world's largest automotive interiors supplier, will invest $55 million in the company's fourth U.S. facility and create 325 new jobs in Hamilton County.
"We want to welcome Yanfeng Automotive Interiors to Tennessee and thank the company for its investment in Chattanooga and Hamilton County," Haslam said. "As the world's largest automotive interiors supplier, Yanfeng can locate anywhere in the world, and its decision to expand its global presence in Tennessee is another example of our state's competitiveness in the global marketplace."
"The strength of Tennessee's automotive sector paired with our exceptional workforce help our state stand at the forefront when companies are looking for the optimal location to grow their operations," Boyd said. "I thank Yanfeng Automotive Interiors for recognizing the advantages of doing business in Tennessee, for its investment in Chattanooga and the new jobs being created for East Tennessee citizens."
"We are pleased to establish a facility in Chattanooga to support Volkswagen," David Wang, Yanfeng Automotive Interiors vice president and deputy general manager, North America, said. "We appreciate the partnership with our customer, as well as local and state officials, who are working closely with us to launch this new manufacturing location."
Yanfeng Automotive Interiors will supply interior components including floor consoles, instrument panels and trunk trim for future Volkswagen models at the automaker's Chattanooga assembly plant. Production is slated to begin in late 2016.
"We welcome Yanfeng Automotive Interiors to Chattanooga and look forward to the hundreds of good, middle-class jobs that they will create," Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke said. "Yanfeng's choice to invest here demonstrates again our success in growing the economy and making our city a world-class destination for innovation and the automotive industry."
"Yanfeng Automotive Interiors is another success that validates our investment in Enterprise South," Hamilton County Mayor Jim Coppinger said. "We've proven we're an outstanding manufacturing location with a well-prepared workforce. We're striving to enhance our career readiness still further by focusing on disciplines like science, technology, engineering and math in Hamilton County Schools."
"TVA and EPB of Chattanooga welcome and congratulate Yanfeng Automotive Interiors on its decision to locate operations and create hundreds of quality jobs in Chattanooga," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are pleased to work with the state of Tennessee, the Chattanooga Area Chamber of Commerce, city of Chattanooga and Hamilton County officials to bring new companies and create more jobs."
Yanfeng Automotive Interiors is a leading supplier of instrument panels and cockpit systems, door panels, floor consoles and overhead consoles. Headquartered in Shanghai, China, the company has more than 90 manufacturing and technical centers in 17 countries and employs over 28,000 people globally.
Established in 2015, Yanfeng Automotive Interiors is a joint venture between Yanfeng Automotive Trim Systems Co., Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Huayu Automotive Systems Co., Ltd., the component group of SAIC Motor Corporation Limited, and Johnson Controls, a global multi-industrial company.
Chattanooga and Hamilton County are represented by Rep. Gerald McCormick (R -- Chattanooga), Rep. Patsy Hazlewood (R -- Signal Mountain), Rep. Marc Gravitt (R -- East Ridge), Rep. Mike Carter (R -- Ooltewah), Rep. JoAnne Favors (D -- Chattanooga), Sen. Bo Watson (R -- Hixson) and Sen. Todd Gardenhire (R -- Chattanooga) in the Tennessee General Assembly.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named 2014 and 2013 "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/15856
