Public Statements
Haslam Announces Transportation Grant For Trenton
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: June 24, 2015
Location: Trenton, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Tennessee Department of Transportation Commissioner John Schroer announced today the award of a $570,025 transportation alternative grant to the city of Trenton to fund Phase 3 of the Downtown Historical Connection Project.
The project is located along North College Street along the east and west sides of the court square and will adjoin a recently completed project. The project will include new curbs, driveways, sidewalks, handicap ramps and crosswalks. Street trees in cast iron grates and landscaping will be added to provide shade and character along the corridor. Decorative lighting will also be added, along with benches and trash receptacles.
"Downtowns are the heart of our communities, and creating better access to them adds to the great quality of life in our cities and towns and helps us be more attractive to businesses," Haslam said. "This project will improve the identity and visual character of Trenton's downtown while also keeping pedestrians safe and encouraging more residents to walk and enjoy the area."
The transportation alternative grant is made possible through a federally funded program formerly known as transportation enhancement, and is administered by the Tennessee Department of Transportation (TDOT).
"Through these grants, TDOT has funded more than $318 million in non-traditional transportation projects," Schroer said. "This program has assisted communities all over the state in their efforts to revitalize downtowns, highlight historic areas, provide alternative means of transportation, and increase opportunities for economic development."
A variety of activities, such as the restoration of historic facilities, bike and pedestrian trails, landscaping and other non-traditional transportation projects, are eligible for grant funds under the federal program.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/15490
