Public Statements
Haslam Announces Transportation Grant for City of Clarksville
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: June 9, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Tennessee Department of Transportation Commissioner John Schroer announced today the award of an $832,666 transportation alternative grant to the City of Clarksville for Phase I of the Red River East Trail Project.
The Red River East Trail is a phased, multimodal trail segment that will contribute to another major section of the city's riverside pedestrian trail development initiative. Phase I features 3,200 feet of trail that generally follows a reach of the Red River running eastward from US 41A in the central city area of Clarksville.
The western end of the project will launch from the pedestrian-vehicle bridge, and the eastern end of the project will have a trailhead terminus established at an abandoned rail line.
"This project provides an alternative transportation route between neighborhoods and the riverfront area as well as promoting healthy activities," Haslam said. "Projects such as this help improve the livability of our communities and the quality of life for residents and visitors."
The transportation alternative grant is made possible through a federally funded program formerly known as transportation enhancement, and is administered by the Tennessee Department of Transportation (TDOT).
"Through these grants, TDOT has funded more than $318 million in non-traditional transportation projects," Schroer said. "This program has assisted communities all over the state in their efforts to revitalize downtowns, highlight historic areas, provide alternative means of transportation, and increase opportunities for economic development."
A variety of activities, such as the restoration of historic facilities, bike and pedestrian trails, landscaping and other non-traditional transportation projects, are eligible for grant funds under the federal program.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/15236
