Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Proper Polymers to Locate in Tennessee, Build New Manufacturing Facility in Giles County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 21, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Proper Polymers officials announced today the company will invest $13.1 million to build a new manufacturing facility in Pulaski. Proper Polymers, a division of Proper Group International, will build a new injection molding plant, its first facility in Tennessee, and create 147 new jobs in Giles County.
"We want to welcome Proper Polymers to Tennessee and thank them for the new jobs they're creating in Pulaski and Giles County," Haslam said. "We've created a strong network of suppliers in Tennessee that continue to support the growth of our automotive industry, and today's announcement is another step toward our goal of becoming the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Tennessee continues to set itself apart as a global leader in automotive manufacturing, an industry that provides more than 111,000 people with jobs in our state," Boyd said. "We are not only supporting Proper Polymers' immediate growth and expansion here, but also working to ensure they have the talent pipeline they will need for decades to come. I want to welcome Proper Polymers to Tennessee and thank them for the jobs they are creating in our communities."
Proper Polymers will operate out of a 44,000 square foot facility at 102 Magneti Marelli St. in Pulaski. The injection molding plant will manufacture two-shot and three-shot components for automotive and non-automotive lighting, along with other automotive exterior trim and support parts.
"The expansion into Tennessee is very strategic for Proper Polymers. Pulaski, in particular, puts us in a great location to support a number of key customers, as well as attract new customers in the region," Proper Polymers President Joe Grippe said. "Our plan is to establish a "world class' operation, with state of the art Krauss Maffei injection molding machines. Attracting highly talented people to work in this facility will be the key to our success."
"On behalf of the citizens of Giles County, I would like to extend a warm welcome to Proper Polymers of Tennessee," Giles County Executive Janet Vanzant said. "We are proud to have Proper Polymers as the newest member of our growing industrial family and we look forward to working with them. I would also like to congratulate the Pulaski/Giles County Economic Development Commission and the Industrial Development Board on a job well done."
"TVA and Pulaski Electric System congratulate Proper Polymers on its decision to locate a new facility in Pulaski," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are privileged to work together with the State of Tennessee, City of Pulaski, Giles County and Pulaski-Giles County Economic Development Council to help bring quality new jobs to Pulaski."
Proper Polymers is expected to begin operations in the third quarter of 2015. The company is currently accepting applications for technical positions, including IT, process engineers, die setters, quality engineers and technicians.
All technical candidates should submit their resumes to careers@propergroupintl.com. Also, the company will be hiring non-technical press and assembly operators. Candidates for these positions should submit their resumes to Katrina.gowan@staffmark.com online at www.staffmark.com or apply in person at Staffmark located at 1197 W College St. in Pulaski.
Proper Polymers also operates facilities in Warren, Mich. and Anderson, S.C.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/13855
