Public Statements
Missing in Action Soldiers Among Those Remembered by Governor Haslam
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 15, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam joined Tennessee Department of Veterans Services Commissioner Many-Bears Grinder and Major General Terry "Max" Haston of the Tennessee Military Department to pay tribute to three Tennesseans who gave the ultimate sacrifice, including two service members previously missing in action for several decades. Haslam presented surviving family members with the Honor and Remember Flag and an Iris which is the official state flower.
Private First Class Cecil Harris of Shelbyville was serving with the 179th Infantry Regiment, 45th Infantry Division on January 2, 1945 when his platoon came under attack during World War II. When the platoon was able to regroup, fellow soldiers realized Harris was missing. He was 19-years old. In September, 2013, a French national alerted federal officials to the discovery of a possible grave of an American service member. The grave was excavated and Harris was positively identified. He was later buried at Arlington National Cemetery on October 22, 2014.
Private First Class Lotchie John Ray Jones of Jasper went missing on or about November 2, 1950 while serving with B Company, 1st Battalion, 8th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division during the Korean War. He was 17-years old. Jones is believed to have died at a prisoner camp on February 28, 1951. His remains were not identified until 2014. Jones was buried at the Chattanooga National Cemetery on March 6, 2015.
Specialist Frederick Greene of Mountain City was killed during a shooting rampage at the Fort Hood Soldier Readiness Processing Center on November 5, 2009. The 29-year old father of two was preparing to deploy to Afghanistan. Governor Haslam declared May 15, 2015 as Gold Star Family Day and formally presented the proclamation to Greene's wife, Christie Greene and their daughters Haley and Allison as well as his mother Karen Nourse and step-father Rob Nourse.

Source:
