Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Community Health Systems to Expand Current Operations, Build New Facility
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 14, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Community Health Systems Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Wayne T. Smith announced today that CHS will invest $66 million to expand its current operations in Tennessee by constructing a new Shared Services Center in Nashville. Through this expansion, the national healthcare company will create 1,500 new jobs over the next five years.
"We want to thank Community Health Systems for this investment in Middle Tennessee and the new jobs they are creating in Davidson County," Haslam said. "Companies right now have a choice between not only what states they want to do business in but what countries, and when a company like CHS chooses to expand right here in Tennessee, it speaks volumes to the rest of the world about the high quality business environment we have and our talented workforce."
"Community Health Systems is a valued partner that's been supporting the growth and prosperity of this region for decades," Boyd said. "Thanks to companies like Community Health Systems and their continued investment, Tennessee is a hub for the nation's healthcare industry. I appreciate Community Health Systems' decision to once again grow their business here and the new jobs they are creating for our communities."
"We've known for thirty years that Middle Tennessee is a great place to do business. We looked at many states and sites for this expansion and ultimately determined that Middle Tennessee offers the business environment, skilled workforce and quality of life to support our growth," Wayne T. Smith, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Community Health Systems, Inc., said. "We are delighted to create new jobs in our home state and that our progress also means a direct and positive economic impact for Middle Tennessee."
Community Health Systems, Inc. is one of the nation's leading operators of general acute care hospitals and one of Tennessee's largest employers. The organization's affiliates own, operate or lease 199 hospitals in 29 states with approximately 30,000 licensed beds.
As Community Health Systems celebrates its 30th anniversary, it is expanding its physical footprint by constructing a new office building near Cane Ridge Road in southeastern Davidson County. The six-story, 240,000 square foot CHS Shared Services Center will perform some business and administrative functions that support the organization's affiliated hospitals, enhancing operations efficiencies and standardizing processes.
"Community Health Systems is a great company, and I'm thrilled to welcome them to Nashville," Nashville Mayor Karl Dean said. "These jobs will be a wonderful addition to the Antioch area and Southeast Davidson County, where Metro Government has opened a new library, community center and park in the past year. CHS's plans are further proof that public investment leads to private investment, and I see the potential for much more."
"Community Health Systems' investment will benefit the entire region with good jobs and it enhances our reputation as a leader in health care," Ralph Schulz, president and CEO, Nashville Area Chamber of Commerce, said. "CHS has always been a strong partner in helping to drive prosperity throughout Middle Tennessee and we're pleased to see the company's leadership continue."
"Congratulations to Community Health Systems on its decision to expand and build a new facility in the Antioch area," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "TVA and NES are privileged to partner with the state of Tennessee, the Nashville Area Chamber of Commerce and the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County to facilitate highly impactful new job creation by Community Health Systems, one of our region's major employers."
Across Tennessee, CHS has 19 affiliated hospitals and corporate headquarters in Franklin, totaling nearly 16,000 employees across the state.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/13869
