Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Atwood Mobile to Expand Current Operations in Robertson County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 8, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Atwood Mobile officials announced the company will invest $3.2 million to expand their current operations by building on to the existing Tennessee Recreational Vehicle (RV) appliance manufacturing facility at 6320 Kelly Willis Rd. in Greenbrier. This expansion will create 178 new jobs in Robertson County over the next three years.
"We want to thank Atwood Mobile for choosing to reinvest in Tennessee and for creating these new jobs in Greenbrier and Robertson County," Haslam said. "Tennessee's geographic location and strong infrastructure offer companies like Atwood Mobile the opportunity to grow and succeed, and today's announcement supports our goal of becoming the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"From our business-friendly environment and solid infrastructure, to the wonderful employees who put their heart and soul into their work, Tennessee has a lot to offer companies like Atwood Mobile," Boyd said. "We truly value the relationships that are forged as a result of strong partnerships we have with the businesses that choose to invest and grow in Tennessee. I want to thank Atwood Mobile for their confidence in us and the new jobs they're creating in our communities."
Atwood Mobile, a subsidiary of Dometic Group, is a leading supplier of appliances, chassis and seating hardware, architectural products and gas detectors, primarily to the North American RV and specialty vehicle markets.
The company plans to expand both the manufacturing and office space at the Greenbrier facility, allowing Atwood to meet growing demand for its products via enhanced operations technologies, capacity and management expertise in closer proximity to Atwood's Midwest concentrated RV base. With the expansion, Atwood will manufacture furnaces at the Greenbrier facility.
"We are excited about the opportunity to expand our presence in the state of Tennessee," Tim Stephens, President of Dometic-Atwood's RV Group, said. "The experienced local management and manufacturing team members bring industry leading capabilities to this project, and we are thus confident this project positions us to meet our growth targets in the future. We further appreciate the support at the state and local levels in enabling this investment. Representatives from the state, TVA and Robertson County's Economic Development team and Industrial Development Board were attentive to our needs and provided a timely assessment of the project and their capabilities, which were instrumental in our ability to make this project a reality."
"The Robertson County Community is proud to welcome the Atwood expansion to Greenbrier," Robertson County Mayor Howard Bradley said. "This will provide employment opportunities for many of our citizens and significantly increase our economic viability in the region. We look forward to working with our friends at Atwood and appreciate their vote of confidence in us."

"The Atwood expansion will be a positive boost for Greenbrier," Greenbrier Mayor Bonnette A. Dawson said. "This is the kind of business we want to attract to the city. We are anxious to see them expand and begin hiring local personnel."
"TVA and Cumberland Electric Membership Corporation congratulate Atwood Mobile Products on its expansion plans to invest and add 178 new jobs in Greenbrier," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are pleased to partner with the state of Tennessee, the Robertson County Chamber of Commerce, City of Greenbrier and Robertson County officials to support the growth of existing companies."
In addition to other enhancements, with this investment, the Greenbrier facility will accommodate the production of RV furnace and gas detection product lines currently produced at Atwood's Salt Lake City, Utah facility.
Work on the Greenbrier expansion and upgrades began earlier this year and are expected to wrap up in late August 2015.
Atwood Mobile is working with Randstad to hire new employees. Interested applicants can visit the Randstad office at 823 Memorial Blvd. in Springfield.
Springfield and Robertson County are represented by Sen. Kerry Roberts (R -- Springfield) and Rep. Sabi Kumar (R -- Springfield).

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/13871
