Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Topre America to Expand, Build New Manufacturing Facility in Smyrna
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: April 29, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Topre America officials announced today the company will invest $53.3 million to build a new manufacturing facility in Smyrna, expanding on their current operations based inside the Nissan Smyrna plant. This expansion will allow the automotive parts manufacturer to increase production efficiency and create 100 new jobs in Rutherford County.
"We want to thank Topre America for their continued investment in Tennessee and creating these new jobs in Rutherford County," Haslam said. "Today's announcement speaks volumes about the state's talented workforce and their commitment to craftsmanship, and these new jobs support our goal of becoming the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Topre America's expansion in Tennessee reinforces our automotive manufacturing strength and our ability to build great partnerships with existing businesses," Boyd said. "The most important asset for Topre America or any Tennessee company is its workforce, and with our game-changing workforce alignment efforts, we can guarantee a pipeline of talent for years to come. I really appreciate Topre America's investment and the new jobs they are bringing to our communities."
Topre America provides automotive stamping and assemblies for body structures for Nissan, Honda and Toyota. This new facility allows Topre America to increase its stamping capabilities and production efficiencies.
"When Topre America decided to start up in 2012 the plan was a limited operation of 25 to 30 people. That quickly grew to over 150 people. We were very pleased of the success we have had in Tennessee," Topre America Vice President Brad Pepper said. "The decision to build our latest facility in Tennessee is due to a combination of a good quality workforce and a strong customer base in the area. This new stamping facility will support the current assembly operation already located in Smyrna it will employ an additional 100 people. This facility will be equipped with the latest technologies in the stamping market."
"We are very excited to build this new facility in Tennessee," Topre America Senior Plant Manager Tom Judkins said. "This will strengthen our ability to serve our customer's needs locally and it also gives an opportunity to offer more high skilled jobs to the area. Due to the size and complexity of this project it will take about two years to complete. Topre America will start hiring and training to run the equipment early next year."
"Topre just celebrated its 80 year anniversary in Japan, our success and longevity has been based on our ability to develop great partnerships with our customers and communities," Topre America General Manager Mark Moore said. "Tennessee has welcomed us into their community. We expect to build a lasting relationship and are excited about our futures together."
"When they arrived in 2012, Topre America was a welcome addition to the Smyrna business landscape and we are thrilled that they have decided to expand here," Smyrna Mayor Mary Esther Reed said. "We congratulate them on their decision to add 100 new jobs to our community."
"Destination Rutherford is committed to providing an environment where current employers can flourish," Destination Rutherford Chairman Bill Jones said. "We congratulate Topre America on its decision to invest in and add jobs to our community."
"TVA and Middle Tennessee Electric congratulate Topre America on its plans to invest in a new Smyrna facility and create 100 new jobs," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "It is always great to see successful growth for existing employers like Topre; we are pleased to partner with the state of Tennessee, Rutherford County Chamber of Commerce, City of Smyrna and Rutherford County to facilitate more jobs for area residents."
Founded in 1935 and headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, Topre started out as a manufacturer of pressed components for automobile equipment. Since the company was inaugurated, it has been committed to world-class manufacturing and has gradually expanded the range of industries it serves to include refrigerating machinery, air-conditioning systems, electronic products and office automation equipment, in addition to automobile equipment.
Construction on the new facility is scheduled to begin in August 2015, with production up and running by June 2017. The company plans to begin hiring for these new positions in October 2016. Those interested on staying up to date on the hiring process can visit the Topre America office located at 628 Enon Springs Rd. East in Smyrna.
Smyrna and Rutherford County are represented by Rep. Dawn White (R - Murfreesboro), Rep. Rick Womick (R - Rockvale), Rep. Bryan Terry (R - Murfreesboro), Rep. Mike Sparks (R - Smyrna), Sen. Bill Ketron (R - Murfreesboro) and Sen. Jim Tracy (R - Shelbyville) in the Tennessee General Assembly.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/13873
