Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce General Mills to Expand Current Operations in Rutherford County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: April 28, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd announced today the global manufacturer will expand current operations in Rutherford County. General Mills will invest $250 million to increase capacity at the Murfreesboro facility, creating 117 new jobs in Rutherford County.
"We want to thank General Mills for choosing to expand in Tennessee and for creating these new jobs in Murfreesboro and Rutherford County," Haslam said. "Companies have a choice in where they do business, and we know that the majority of new jobs created in our state come from businesses that are already located here. We work hard to help existing industries expand in Tennessee, and these new jobs support our goal of becoming the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"I am really glad to see General Mills expanding in Tennessee," Boyd said. "It's always exciting when a company that already has a presence here can continue to grow and add more employees. I want to thank General Mills for their investment and the new jobs they're creating in our community."
"On behalf of our Murfreesboro employees, and General Mills, we're excited for what's to come and look forward to continued success in Murfreesboro," General Mills Plant Manager Dave Tincher said.
The expansion will involve increasing production on existing lines, as well as installation of additional production equipment.
"It's another exciting day for Rutherford County," said Rutherford County Mayor Ernest Burgess. "It's always rewarding when an existing company chooses to expand in our community and we congratulate General Mills on their decision to add over 100 jobs."
"General Mills has been a longtime community partner by employing hundreds and donating countless volunteer hours and funds to aid local charitable organizations," said Murfreesboro Mayor Shane McFarland. "We appreciate the impact they have made on our community and wish them many more years of continued success."

"As important as it is to recruit new jobs to our community, it's just as crucial to make sure we maintain a positive business climate that allows our existing industries to flourish," said Destination Rutherford Chairman Bill Jones. "The decision for General Mills to expand is additional confirmation that our county is moving in the right direction."
"TVA and Murfreesboro Electric Department congratulate General Mills on its decision to expand manufacturing and add more jobs in Rutherford County," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are pleased to work with the state of Tennessee, the Rutherford County Chamber of Commerce, city of Murfreesboro and Rutherford County officials to facilitate existing companies like General Mills in continuing successful operations."
Murfreesboro and Rutherford County are represented by Sen. Bill Ketron (R -- Murfreesboro), Sen. Jim Tracy (R -- Shelbyville), Rep. Dawn White (R -- Murfreesboro), Rep. Bryan Terry (R -- Murfreesboro), Rep. Rick Womick (R -- Rockvale) and Rep. Mike Sparks (R -- Smyrna).
About General Mills
General Mills is one of the world's leading food companies, operating in more than 100 countries around the world. Its brands include Cheerios, Fiber One, Häagen-Dazs, Nature Valley, Yoplait, Betty Crocker, Pillsbury, Green Giant, Old El Paso, Wanchai Ferry, Yoki and more. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., USA, General Mills had fiscal 2014 worldwide sales of US $17.9 billion.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named 2014 and 2013 "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/13874
