Public Statements
State of the State Address: Tennessee: Full Speed Ahead
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Feb. 9, 2015
Location: Nashville, TN

Lieutenant Governor Ramsey, Speaker Harwell, Speaker Pro Tem Watson, Speaker Pro Tem Johnson, Members of the 109th General Assembly, Justices, Constitutional Officers, Commissioners, friends, guests and fellow Tennesseans:
First, let me begin by assuring you that I don't plan on making you listen to me give an address every week. There was the inauguration a couple of weeks ago, Insure Tennessee last Monday, and then tonight. I'm sure some of you are already tired of hearing me, so this will be the shortest State of the State speech yet.
Last week, the decision was made not to move forward with Insure Tennessee. However, that does not mean the issues around health care go away. Too many Tennesseans are still not getting health coverage they need in the right way, in the right place, at the right time. An emergency room is not the place where so many Tennesseans should be going for health care services. It's not the best health care for them, and it's costing us a lot more in the long run.
Health care costs are still eating up too much of our state's budget and impacting the federal deficit and nation's debt. According to the Congressional Budget Office, if we maintained health care costs at their current levels, which we know are inflated, for the next eight years -- just kept them flat - we'd eliminate the nation's deficit. To do that, we can't keep doing what we have been doing.
So, though the special session has ended, I hope we can find a way to work together to address those problems.
As we transition from the special session to the regular session, I look forward to continuing to work together on the important issues that face our state and our citizens.
This evening, I am here to update you on how we're doing as a state and to present our administration's budget. You will see in the budget that we are continuing to invest in the things that we believe in and that Tennesseans care about: education, jobs and a customer-focused, efficient and effective state government.












Source:
