Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty, Mayor Dean Announce Bridgestone Americas Headquarters to Relocate in Downtown Nashville
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Nov. 11, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam, Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty and Nashville Mayor Karl Dean along with Bridgestone Americas, Inc. officials announced today the company's plans to relocate its headquarters to downtown Nashville in a newly constructed facility slated for completion in mid-to-late 2017. The headquarters will house employees currently based in Nashville, as well as those from three out-of-state business units that are being relocated to the city.
Bridgestone Americas' investment in the planned 514,000 square foot, 30-story headquarters is valued at $232.6 million and will create 607 new jobs in Davidson County.
"We are grateful for Bridgestone's ongoing commitment to Tennessee," Haslam said. "This is one of our state's best known brands and a company that would be more than welcome anywhere in the world.
"It says a lot for our state that Bridgestone Americas is building a new headquarters and creating more than 600 new jobs here. We look forward to continuing our strong partnership with the company in the years to come."
"Tennessee consistently ranks as the top state in automotive manufacturing strength, and when a thriving company like Bridgestone Americas chooses to broaden its home base in Tennessee, it further solidifies our position as the epicenter of the new Southern Automotive Corridor," Hagerty said. "As a state, we strive to show Tennessee companies that we are a brand that supports their brand. I could not be more pleased with Bridgestone Americas' decision to relocate its new headquarters to downtown Nashville, and I applaud the company for providing these jobs to our state's superior workforce."
Bridgestone Americas is scheduled to break ground in early 2015 with planned occupancy in the third quarter of 2017. The new headquarters, located at 4th Ave. S. and Demonbreun St., is expected to be home base for more than 1,700 employees.
"Uniting teammates from our core business units in one location is fundamental to continuing to build a bright, sustainable future for our company," Gary Garfield, CEO and president of Bridgestone Americas, said. "Under one roof, we will increase collaboration, innovation and growth across our lines of business. Current and future teammates will benefit by being part of an exciting and motivating workplace culture intensely focused on meeting the needs of those who buy our products and services.
"We received world-class receptions and very competitive offers from several major cities. At the end of the day, Nashville prevailed. The city offers a great quality of life and low business costs, with a reasonable cost of living for our teammates. Downtown Nashville is vibrant and growing. Locating here makes perfect sense, given Bridgestone's existing strong presence in and deep ties to Nashville and Middle Tennessee," Garfield added.
"Bridgestone Americas has been one of our signature companies for many years, and Nashville is proud to be their partner as they invest even more in our community by building a new headquarters and bringing 600 new jobs here," Mayor Dean said. "Bridgestone was ready to join its businesses under one roof, either here or in some other city. So this means 1,700 employees who might have worked elsewhere will be contributing to our economy instead by working, living, eating and shopping here. This is huge for Nashville."
"TVA and NES congratulate Bridgestone on its latest announced plans to expand and create hundreds of new jobs in Nashville," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are proud to be partners with the state of Tennessee, the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County and the Nashville Area Chamber of Commerce to assist growing employers like Bridgestone."
Bridgestone has outgrown its current leased headquarters facility on Marriott Drive near Nashville International Airport. With its lease expiring in late 2017, the company launched an extensive search for a new headquarters location to support future growth. The new headquarters will be home to Bridgestone Americas corporate staff and supporting functions, as well as Bridgestone Americas Tire Operations, LLC; Bridgestone Retail Operations, LLC; Firestone Building Products Company, LLC; and Firestone Industrial Products Company, LLC.
About Bridgestone Americas, Inc.
Nashville, Tenn.-based Bridgestone Americas, Inc. (BSAM) is the U.S. subsidiary of Bridgestone Corporation, the world's largest tire and rubber company. BSAM and its subsidiaries develop, manufacture and market a wide range of Bridgestone, Firestone and associate brand tires to address the needs of a broad range of customers, including consumers, automotive and commercial vehicle original equipment manufacturers, and those in the agricultural, forestry and mining industries. The companies are also engaged in retreading operations throughout the Western Hemisphere and produce air springs, roofing materials, and industrial fibers and textiles. The BSAM family of companies also operates the world's largest chain of automotive tire and service centers. Guided by its One Team, One Planet message, the company is dedicated to achieving a positive environmental impact in all of the communities it calls home.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named "2013 State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Find us on the web: tn.gov/ecd. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/13199
