Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty Announce Under Armour, Inc. to Create 1,500 New Jobs in Mount Juliet
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Oct. 2, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty along with Under Armour, Inc. officials announced today the company will build a new one million square foot distribution and warehousing facility in Beckwith Farms in Mount Juliet. Under Armour, a global leader of performance apparel, footwear and accessories, will invest more than $100 million and create 1,500 new jobs in Wilson County over the next five years.
"We want to welcome Under Armour to Tennessee and thank the company for choosing to invest and create 1,500 new jobs in Wilson County," Haslam said. "Under Armour's decision to build a new distribution and warehousing facility in Mount Juliet is another example of the business-friendly climate our state offers to companies around the world, and brings us one step closer toward our goal to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Under Armour is an innovative, globally-renowned brand whose cutting-edge products are consistently seen on everyone from the world's greatest athletes, to youth sports teams, to Tennesseans across the state," Hagerty said. "Tennessee's advanced transportation and logistics infrastructure paired with the state's superior workforce will certainly aid in Under Armour's future success. I appreciate the company's decision to locate and invest in Mount Juliet and for further enhancing the extraordinary momentum behind the Tennessee brand."
"Under Armour's mission is to make all athletes better, and that begins by building a great team and providing best in class service for our customers," Under Armour COO and President of Product Kip Fulks said. "We take immense pride in partnering with Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty, and the many other state and local officials who have joined our commitment to this mission and who have worked tirelessly to establish the ideal business climate in which everyone can flourish."
The Mount Juliet facility, scheduled to open in early 2016, will be Under Armour's third distribution facility in the United States, with the original warehouse in the company's hometown of Baltimore, Maryland and the other location in Rialto, California. Under Armour also operates two Under Armour Factory House retail destinations in the state, located in Nashville and Sevierville.
"On behalf of the citizens of Mount Juliet, it is my privilege to welcome Under Armour to our city," Mount Juliet Mayor Ed Hagerty said. "We are very pleased that Under Armour has chosen Mount Juliet as its new location and will be creating 1,500 new jobs. Mount Juliet is consistently ranked as one of the most business-friendly cities in the state, and we believe Under Armour will have great success here."
"What an awesome opportunity to have such a quality company move into our area," Wilson County Mayor Randall Hutto said. "Wilson County has been blessed to have attracted so many jobs for its citizens. Thank you to all those who have made this happen."
"TVA and Middle Tennessee Electric congratulate Under Armour on its decision to select Mount Juliet as a new distribution center location," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are proud to be partners with the state of Tennessee, the Joint Economic Development Board of Wilson County, the Nashville Area Chamber of Commerce, Mount Juliet and Wilson County officials to welcome and support Under Armour as a major new employer in the Tennessee Valley."
About Under Armour, Inc.
Under Armour (NYSE: UA), the originator of performance footwear, apparel and equipment, revolutionized how athletes across the world dress. Designed to make all athletes better, the brand's innovative products are sold worldwide to athletes at all levels. Under Armour's wholly owned subsidiary, MapMyFitness, powers one of the world's largest Connected Fitness communities. The Under Armour global headquarters is in Baltimore, Maryland. For further information, please visit the Company's website at www.uabiz.com.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named "2013 State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Find us on the web: tn.gov/ecd. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/13031
