Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty Announce Airtech International to Begin New Manufacturing Operations in Robertson County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Sept. 25, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty along with Airtech International officials today announced the aerospace manufacturer will begin new manufacturing operations in Springfield, Tennessee. Airtech International plans to invest $10.1 million and create 100 new jobs in Robertson County over the next three years.
"We are grateful to Airtech International for this investment in Middle Tennessee that is resulting in new, high-quality jobs," Haslam said. "We want companies to succeed here, and we know to make that happen it is important to offer a business-friendly environment that encourages them to grow and expand in Tennessee."
"The aerospace industry in Tennessee continues to expand, anchored by the U.S. Air Force Arnold Engineering Development Center (AEDC) and dozens of other major employers, like Bell Helicopter, Triumph Aerostructures and Kilgore Flares Company. I am pleased to welcome Airtech International to this roster, as they make Tennessee their home, and further enhance our reputation as a state that promotes and supports the importance of research and development," Hagerty said. "I appreciate Airtech International's investment in Tennessee and the high quality jobs they are creating in our state. I look forward to their growth and success in Tennessee."
"We have found a home in Tennessee for the expansion of our growing business," Airtech International President and CEO Jeff Dahlgren said. "Being family-owned and operated, we instantly felt at home with the government and business environment Tennessee has to offer. We look forward to many productive years and becoming a vibrant part of the community."
Airtech International will invest in all new state-of-the-art equipment at its Springfield facility, where it will manufacture process materials used in the manufacturing of composite/carbon fiber parts. Production is anticipated to begin in 2015.
"We welcome Airtech to our manufacturing community and we are particularly happy for the diversity that they will add to the mix of products manufactured in Springfield," Springfield Mayor Billy Paul Carneal said. "Springfield has a long history of encouraging the location of manufacturers in our community, and we look forward to the opportunity for new jobs for our residents."
"TVA and Springfield Electric Department congratulate and welcome Airtech International to Springfield, Tennessee," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are excited to partner with the state of Tennessee, Robertson County Chamber of Commerce, Springfield and Robertson County community officials to foster Airtech's success at its new manufacturing and distribution operations location."
The company plans to begin hiring immediately. Those interested in applying for these new positions can email a resume to TennesseeJobs@airtechintl.com.
Airtech International currently operates manufacturing facilities in Huntingdon Beach, California; Differdange, Luxembourg; and Tianjin, China with converting and distribution in Chadderton, England.
Airtech Advanced Materials Group, a family-owned and operated company since 1973, is the world's largest manufacturer and supplier of vacuum bagging and composite tooling materials. Airtech develops, produces and sells material and supplies necessary for the production of items made of composite materials, such as fiberglass and carbon fiber. Its products are used in the aeronautical, space, marine, automobile and windmill industries, as well as in the composites industry in general.
Airtech International is the latest addition to Tennessee's robust aerospace industry, which currently employs 7,023 people statewide. The aerospace industry in Tennessee has generated $88 million in investment and 695 new jobs since 2011.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named "2013 State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Find us on the web: tn.gov/ecd. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/13003
