Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty Announce Warby Parker to Open New Office in Davidson County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Sept. 3, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty along with Warby Parker (warbyparker.com) co-founders Neil Blumenthal and Dave Gilboa announced today the transformative lifestyle brand will open a Nashville office, its first outside of New York. The brand will initially open in a temporary location, with plans to build out a permanent space in the near future. As part of the expansion, Warby Parker will create more than 250 new jobs in Davidson County over the next five years.
"We want to thank Warby Parker for investing in Tennessee and creating these high quality jobs in Nashville," Haslam said. "Tennessee's central geographic location and strong creative class makes us a natural fit for a design company like Warby Parker, and today's announcement is another step toward our goal of becoming the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Tennessee continues to set itself apart as a state where companies can feel confident in leveraging new investment," Hagerty said. "Warby Parker is another example of a cutting edge brand deciding to locate in Tennessee, taking advantage of our low cost of living, ideal, central location, and creative and talented workforce pool. Our state offers visionary companies like Warby Parker an environment most conducive to continued success, and I welcome their expansion to Tennessee. I appreciate these new jobs they are creating in our communities and look forward to their continued presence in our state."
The Nashville office marks the first time Warby Parker will expand its corporate team outside of its New York City headquarters. The company's commitment to providing incredible customer experiences means hiring and housing a large, talented team outside of the 300-plus employees who currently work in New York City.
"Nashville is such a vibrant city--we're thrilled to put down roots there," Neil Blumenthal, Co-Founder and Co-CEO of Warby Parker, said. "We will continue to expand our New York headquarters, but this is an exciting next step that will allow us to fuel future company and customer growth."

Source:
