Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty Announce General Motors to Invest $185 Million in Engine Plant, Build New Cadillac SRX in Spring Hill
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Aug. 27, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty along with General Motors officials announced today the company will invest $185 million to make small gas engines at its Spring Hill manufacturing complex. GM also identified the next-generation Cadillac SRX as a future mid-size vehicle to be produced at Spring Hill.
"We want to congratulate GM on this important investment in its future in Spring Hill and Middle Tennessee," Haslam said. "Today's announcement speaks volumes around the country and world about our state's business-friendly climate and strengths in automotive manufacturing, bringing us another step closer to our goal of making Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Today's announcement demonstrates how globally competitive Tennessee is in automotive production and underscores the tremendous momentum our state possesses in the automotive sector," Hagerty said. "The quality craftsmanship and artisan strength of our workforce has proven time and again that Tennessee is the best place to invest and grow."
The investment supports GM's new small displacement engine, which is part of an all-new Ecotec engine family that will be used by five GM brands in 27 models by the 2017 model year, powering many of the company's high-volume small car and compact-crossover vehicles.
Spring Hill is among six manufacturing locations around the globe that will produce the new engine, and an additional $48.4 million investment is planned for the Bedford, Indiana powertrain castings plant.
"The new Ecotec engine family represents the most advanced and efficient small displacement gasoline engines in GM's history," Arvin Jones, GM North America manufacturing manager, said. "It was a good business decision to produce this powertrain in Spring Hill and Bedford. Both teams have strong performance records, especially in quality."
The new Ecotec portfolio includes 11 engines with three- and four-cylinder variants ranging from 1.0L to 1.5L -- including turbocharged versions -- and power ratings ranging from 75 horsepower (56 kW) to 165 horsepower (123 kW), and torque ranging from 70 lb-ft (95 Nm) to 184 lb-ft (250 Nm).
GM Spring Hill currently manufactures the award-winning Ecotec 2.0L turbocharged direct injection 4-cylinder engine, the Ecotec 2.4L direct injection 4-cylinder engine and Ecotec 2.5L direct injection engine, which powers the 2014 Chevrolet Malibu and Chevrolet Impala.
The naming of the Cadillac SRX program follows GM's previously announced $350 million investment in Spring Hill for two future mid-size vehicles expected to create or retain approximately 1,800 jobs.
About General Motors Co.
General Motors Co. (NYSE:GM, TSX: GMM) and its partners produce vehicles in 30 countries, and the company has leadership positions in the world's largest and fastest-growing automotive markets. GM, its subsidiaries and joint venture entities sell vehicles under the Chevrolet, Cadillac, Baojun, Buick, GMC, Holden, Jiefang, Opel, Vauxhall and Wuling brands. More information on the company and its subsidiaries, including OnStar, a global leader in vehicle safety, security and information services, can be found at http://www.gm.com.

About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named "2013 State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/12878
