Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty Announce TTI Floor Care North America to Expand Cookeville Operations
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Aug. 25, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty along with TTI Floor Care North America officials today announced the company will invest in its Cookeville facility by adding additional manufacturing capacity to introduce new product lines and support existing product transfers. TTI Floor Care North America will create 211 new jobs in Putnam County, nearly doubling its workforce over the next five years.
"I want to thank TTI Floor Care for expanding its Cookeville operations and providing more than 200 jobs to Tennesseans," Haslam said. "When a company chooses to increase its presence in Tennessee, it speaks volumes to others about our business-friendly environment, and this announcement supports our goal to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
As TTI Floor Care's operations expand and product lines are moved to Cookeville, the company plans to return portions of their production capacity from China and Mexico.
"The percentage of Tennesseans working in the manufacturing sector is 1.3 times the national average, and this figure underscores our state's unbeatable manufacturing momentum and workforce capability," Hagerty said. "TTI Floor Care is one of the many successful global companies located in Tennessee, and I couldn't be more pleased with the company's efforts to bring high quality manufacturing jobs back to Tennessee and for further investing in our state."
TTI Floor Care North America is one of the largest floor care manufacturers in North America and home to Hoover, Dirt Devil and Oreck vacuum cleaners. The Cookeville facility supports the company's manufacturing, assembly and distribution operations, and will receive extensive building upgrades and infrastructure improvements through the expansion. TTI also maintains a call center at the Cookeville location.
"We are extremely pleased to expand our operations in Cookeville, which will support our leading position within the North American floor care market," Simon Lawson, president of TTI Floor Care North America, said. "The Cookeville facility provides us with a number of advantages including a skilled, tenured workforce and a central location for shipping to a majority of the U.S. quickly and efficiently. We want to express our appreciation to Cookeville, Putnam County and the state of Tennessee for supporting our expansion in the Cookeville area."
"This is a great day for Cookeville and the Highlands region," Dr. Bob Bell, chairman of the Industrial Development Board of Cookeville, said. "These are good, well-paying jobs that will provide economic opportunity for numerous families in the area. On behalf of the Industrial Development Board, I wish TTI Floor Care many years of continued success."
"TVA congratulates TTI Floor Care on its announcement to invest and create jobs in Cookeville," John Bradley, TVA senior vice president of economic development, said. "TVA and Cookeville Electric Department are pleased to assist TTI through our partnership with the state of Tennessee, the Industrial Development Board of Cookeville, and the Cookeville-Putnam County Chamber."
TTI Floor Care North America develops and manufactures vacuum cleaning products and floor care appliances including upright vacuum cleaners, carpet washers, hard floor cleaners and hand-held vacs. The company sells its products through a network of retailers to customers in the United States.
Interested persons can visit http://ttifloorcare.com/careers/ to learn more about available positions.
About TTI Floor Care
TTI Floor Care's powerhouse brand portfolio includes Hoover®, Dirt Devil®, ORECK®, Royal and Hoover Commercial. TTI Floor Care is dedicated to building leadership through innovation and demonstrates commitment and passion to be the number one floor care company. TTI Floor Care is an equal opportunity employer.
About the TTI Group
Founded in 1985 and listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited in 1990, TTI is a world-class leader in quality consumer, professional and industrial products marketed to the home improvement, hardware and construction industries. A strategic focus on powerful brands, innovative products, exceptional people, and operational excellence drives our success. TTI's powerful brand portfolio includes MILWAUKEE®, AEG®, and RYOBI® power tools, accessories and hand tools, RYOBI® and HOMELITE® outdoor products, and HOOVER®, DIRT DEVIL®, ORECK® and VAX® floor care and appliances.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named "2013 State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1
location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Find us on the web: tn.gov/ecd.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/12868
