Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty Announce Academy Sports + Outdoors to Create 700 New Jobs in Cookeville
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Aug. 8, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty along with Academy Sports + Outdoors officials announced today the company will build a new 1.6 million square foot distribution center on more than 200 acres in Cookeville to support continued company growth. The premier sports, outdoors and lifestyle retailer will invest $100 million and create approximately 700 new jobs in Putnam County over the next five years.
"I want to thank Academy Sports + Outdoors for its investment in Tennessee and the hundreds of new jobs they're bringing to Cookeville and Putnam County," Haslam said. "Tennessee's geographic location is a big advantage for companies distributing their product, and today's announcement supports our goal to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Tennessee's strength in transportation and logistics paired with its ideal central location make our state a stand out choice for companies that deliver quality products to their customers each and every day," Hagerty said. "As a state, we strive to foster a business environment that is both appealing to new companies and accommodating to our incumbent industries, and I couldn't be more pleased to see Academy Sports + Outdoors choose Cookeville for its newest distribution operations."
Academy Sports + Outdoors will begin construction on the facility this month and plans to become operational in early 2016. The site is located south of Old Stewart Road along Interstate 40 on the west side of Cookeville. This will be the company's third distribution center.
"We are extremely grateful to Governor Haslam, Economic and Community Development Commissioner Hagerty, the Industrial Development Board, Mayor Swallows, the Tennessee Valley Authority, and all the city of Cookeville and Putnam County officials for their efforts in making Cookeville the future home of Academy Sports + Outdoors' third distribution center," Academy Sports + Outdoors CEO and President Rodney Faldyn said. "We've been an active member of the Tennessee community for over 15 years through our stores, and we're looking forward to further our commitment to the state and local communities through the addition of our new distribution center."
"I am ecstatic to welcome Academy Sports + Outdoors to Cookeville and look forward to our continuing community partnership," Cookeville Mayor Matt Swallows said. "I appreciate the joint effort and hard work involved from the project coordinators, state of Tennessee, the Cookeville City Council, city manager and staff, as well as the Putnam County Executive and Commission, the Chamber of Commerce and IDB Board. We have proven that great accomplishments can be made when working together as a team for the betterment of our community and region. We are very pleased to add a new business to our area while contributing to positive growth in Cookeville and Putnam County."
Academy Sports + Outdoors currently operates nine stores in Tennessee with a 10th store planned to open this fall in Memphis. The company is headquartered in Katy, Texas with a distribution facility there as well as a second distribution center in Jeffersonville, Georgia.
"We are extremely excited that Academy Sports + Outdoors has chosen to locate in Putnam County," Putnam County Executive Kim Blaylock said. "Our county, the city and chamber have worked hard to bring new jobs to our county, and the state has been a great partner as well. It is a big win for the people of Putnam County and the Upper Cumberland region."
"Attracting and retaining quality jobs and investments in our region is a fundamental part of TVA's mission," TVA President and CEO Bill Johnson said. "TVA and Upper Cumberland EMC congratulate Academy Sports + Outdoors on selecting Cookeville as its new home and commend the many state and local partners for their roles in winning a project of this magnitude for a community that clearly earned it."
The company will begin initial hiring in Fall 2015. Individuals interested in careers can visit www.academy.com/careers to apply for available positions.
About Academy Sports + Outdoors
Academy Sports + Outdoors is a premier sports, outdoor and lifestyle retailer with a broad assortment of quality hunting, fishing and camping equipment and gear along with sports and leisure products, footwear, apparel and much more. The Texas-based company operates 178 stores throughout Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. The Academy Sports + Outdoors philosophy is to deliver an unparalleled shopping experience by providing convenience, offering a broad selection of quality products, delivering exceptional customer service and selling the right stuff at everyday low prices. For more information about Academy Sports + Outdoors visit academy.com, facebook.com/academy, twitter.com/academy, pinterest.com/academy, youtube.com/academy and instagram.com/academy.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named "2013 State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/12800
