Public Statements
Haslam Appoints Workers' Compensation Appeals Board Judges
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 23, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

The appointees are Marshall Davidson, 50, of Goodlettsville, who will have a six-year initial term; David Hensley, 60, of Chattanooga, who will begin with a four-year term; and Tim Conner, 47, of Knoxville, who will have a two-year initial term.

"I am pleased to make these appointments, and Tennessee will see a workers' compensation system that operates with clarity and fairness," Haslam said. "These are important positions in our new workers' compensation system, and I am grateful for their willingness to serve."

The workers' compensation appeals board reviews interlocutory and final orders entered by workers compensation judges.

Davidson has been a staff attorney for the Tennessee Supreme Court since 1992. He was an associate at King & Ballow in Nashville from 1991-1992; a judicial clerk for Chief Justice Frank F. Drowota III from 1990-1991; associate at Burger, Fly & McFarlin in Murfreesboro from 1989-1990; and a judicial clerk for the Hon. Houston Goddard of the Tennessee Court of Appeals in Knoxville from 1988-1989. Davidson has been a faculty member at the Nashville School of Law since 1992. He and his wife, Salena, have three children, Marshall, Natalie and Erin.

"I am honored to accept Governor Haslam's appointment to the Workers' Compensation Appeals Board," Davidson said. "I have thoroughly enjoyed working as a staff attorney with the Tennessee Supreme Court for more than two decades and have had the great privilege of learning from 17 different justices what being a complete and effective appellate judge entails. I sincerely appreciate the Governor's confidence in me and am excited to continue serving the state in this new role."

Hensley has been with Franklin Cooper & Marcus in Chattanooga since 2004. He was with Milligan, Barry, Hensley & Evans from 1981-2003 and was a clerk for the Hon. Herschel P. Franks of the Tennessee Court of Appeals from 1979-1980. Hensley and his wife, Dianne, have two daughters, Laurel and Caroline.

"I want to express my appreciation to Governor Haslam for the appointment and for the confidence he places in me by selecting me to serve on the Workers' Compensation Appeals Board," Hensley said. "I look forward to serving the people of Tennessee to the best of my skill and ability."

Conner has been at the firm Leitner, Williams, Dooley & Napolitan since 1992, first as an associate attorney and as a member since 1997. He has been an adjunct professor at the University of Tennessee College of Law since 2013. Conner and his wife, Stephanie, have two daughters, Emily and Erin.

"I wish to thank Governor Haslam for this opportunity to serve the employees and employers of Tennessee, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Appeals Board," Conner said.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/12724
