Public Statements
Haslam Announces Grants For Waynesboro and Wayne County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 17, 2014
Location: Waynesboro, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam today announced two grants totaling more than $587,000 for downtown revitalization in Wayne County and energy efficiency improvements at the Green River Surface Water Treatment Plant in Waynesboro.
"These types of projects are critical to strengthening our communities," Haslam said. "Increasing energy efficiencies saves taxpayer dollars and reduces air emissions and creating a more pedestrian-oriented environment improves our cities' and towns' livability and quality of life for Tennesseans."
A $23,600 Clean Tennessee Energy Grant to the City of Waynesboro from the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) will support energy efficiency improvements at the Green River Surface Water Treatment Plant. This project will upgrade the control of four existing pump motors to allow more uniform pumping into the distribution system due to the large swing in day-to-day demands on the system. These improvements to the plant's pump motors will create annual savings on the city's power bill, and decreased electricity demand will also improve air quality by reducing emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, and carbon dioxide at the power generation stations.
"We are pleased to help the City of Waynesboro become more energy efficient," TDEC Commissioner Bob Martineau said. "We continue to look for ways to promote environmental awareness and energy efficiency within state government and within Tennessee's communities."
A $563,992 transportation alternative grant from the Tennessee Department of Transportation (TDOT) will fund Phase I of the Downtown Revitalization Project in Wayne County. The project includes replacing existing curbing, sidewalks, and pedestrian lighting and is located along the perimeter of the Wayne County Courthouse on US 64. The entrances and exits to the square parking area will also be relocated, creating a much safer crossing for pedestrians, and new landscaping and trees will be planted throughout the project area.

Source:
