Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty Announce ABC Group Inc. to Expand Gallatin Operations
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 10, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty along with ABC Group Inc. officials announced today the company will add an additional 180,000 square feet to its existing Gallatin facility in response to increased demand for automotive related products. ABC Group will invest $25.5 million in land, infrastructure and equipment and create 230 new jobs over the next five years in Sumner County.
"We are thankful for ABC Group's decision to expand its operations in Gallatin and for the more than 200 jobs the company is creating in Sumner County," Haslam said. "Existing industry expansions, along with Tennessee's strong automotive manufacturing base, help support our goal of becoming the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Tennessee has ranked No. 1 state in the nation for automotive manufacturing strength, and this announcement by ABC Group underscores the continued manufacturing momentum in our state," Hagerty said. "Incumbent Tennessee industries are an integral part of the communities they call home, and I appreciate ABC Group for reaffirming its commitment to the citizens of Sumner County."
"ABC is not just investing in bricks and mortar in order to increase our global footprint, we believe the key to our continued competitive success is through advanced product development, continuous improvement in our facilities and the training and development of our employees," ABC Group President and General Counsel Mary Anne Bueschkens said. "It is those employees and their dedication and hard work that have directly contributed to ABC Group's steady growth and sustained success."
Located at 400 ABC Blvd., ABC Group's division, ABC Technologies, will more than double its current workforce of 196 by adding 230 new jobs consisting of 213 manufacturing positions and 17 support and management personnel.
The expansion is currently underway to increase production capacity of console, interior trim and load floors for the new GMC and Cadillac vehicles produced at the General Motors plant in Spring Hill. New equipment includes injection molding presses in the range of 100 tons to 2,300 tons and supporting assembly cells.
"I am very pleased that ABC Group chose to expand their facility in Gallatin. I know they had several options," Gallatin Mayor Jo Ann Graves said. "Existing business is the backbone of our community and as they expand, the city benefits from their growth. I appreciate the assistance of the Tennessee Department of Transportation and Department of Economic and Community Development in making this expansion possible."
"ABC Group has been a major employer in Sumner County for many years and news of this expansion is very gratifying," Sumner County Executive Anthony Holt said. "Business retention/expansion is one of our mainstays, and we sincerely appreciate ABC's confidence in Sumner County. We consider ABC Group to be an outstanding corporate neighbor."
ABC Group is a world leader in vertically integrated plastic processing, supporting a global organization. Its core business as an Automotive Tier 1 supplier is in the design, development and production of plastic automotive systems and components for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) worldwide. Ranked as one of the top industrial automotive blow-molders in North America, ABC Group's manufacturing process includes injection and blow molding, thermoforming, sheet extrusion, interior and exterior painting and material compounding.
"Advanced manufacturing is a cornerstone of Gallatin's economy, and we welcome this continued investment in our community," K. Clay Haynes, chair of the Gallatin Industrial Development Board, said. "The Gallatin Industrial Development Board is ready and willing to do all we can to welcome industry with open arms. Tennessee is such a great place to live and work, and we are excited about ABC Group's deep commitment to Gallatin."
"Gallatin appreciates ABC Group's decision to expand here," James Fenton, executive director of the Gallatin Economic Development Agency, said. "We are also appreciative of our partners at the state level for helping make this the best place for ABC's expansion."
ABC Group's website, www.abcgroupinc.com, provides a complete overview on careers and global opportunities available to those interested in joining the ABC Group team.
About ABC Group Inc.
ABC Group Inc. is one of North America's top Tier 1 automotive parts suppliers. An award-winning international success story, ABC Group began in 1974 with a single manufacturing facility in Canada and has grown to become a global manufacturing enterprise. With over 5,000 employees and 25 manufacturing facilities in Canada, the United States, Mexico, Brazil, Spain, Poland, China and technical sales centers in Germany and Japan.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named "2013 State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/12665
