Public Statements
Haslam Announces Transportation Grants for Grundy County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 8, 2014
Location: Monteagle, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Department of Transportation Commissioner John Schroer announced today nearly $820,000 in two transportation alternative grants for Monteagle and Tracy City to connect downtown districts to trails and make other enhancements.

The town of Monteagle was awarded a $216,320 grant for the Pedestrian Corridor Extension Project. The project will install approximately 2,000 feet of 5-foot sidewalks on the east side of Highway 64 beginning at Dubose Street heading south to Elgin Drive. The sidewalk will extend access to the multiuse trail and park in downtown Monteagle. A new pedestrian crosswalk will also be created across Highway 64 at the Monteagle City Ball Park.

Tracy City received a $603,569 grant to fund the Downtown Sidewalk and Mountain Goat Trail Connector Project. The project will provide pedestrian and bicyclist enhancements to the historic downtown business district, including a multimodal path and trailhead parking. The grant will also fund a key section of the Mountain Goat Trail, a projected 35-plus mile trail linking Franklin and Grundy counties.

"Enhancing transportation options and connections between areas in Grundy County will increase pedestrian and visitor traffic to businesses and recreation areas," Haslam said. "Tennessee's downtowns are the heart of our communities, and projects like these improve our cities' and towns' livability and the quality of life for residents."

The transportation alternative grant is made possible through a federally funded program formerly known as transportation enhancement, and is administered by the Tennessee Department of Transportation (TDOT).

"Through these grants, TDOT has funded more than $306 million in non-traditional transportation projects," Schroer said. "This program has assisted communities all over the state in their efforts to revitalize downtowns, highlight historic areas, provide alternative means of transportation, and increase opportunities for economic development."

A variety of activities, such as the restoration of historic facilities, bike and pedestrian trails, landscaping and other non-traditional transportation projects, are eligible for grant funds under the federal program.

State Sen. Janice Bowling (R-Tullahoma) and state Rep. Paul Bailey (R-Sparta) represent Grundy County in the Tennessee General Assembly.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/12658
