Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty Announce ForceX to Expand Tennessee Operations in Davidson County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: June 26, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty along with ForceX officials today announced the software company will open a new location in Nashville. Driven by significant company growth, its national customer base and a desire to be part of the technology and entrepreneurial community Nashville offers, ForceX selected an area near downtown Nashville as the perfect location for its central hub of operation, which will also include its headquarters. The company plans to invest $1.8 million and create 175 jobs over the next five years at its new location at The Sheds on Charlotte development at 2200 Charlotte Ave.
"I want to thank ForceX for continuing to invest in Tennessee and the new jobs being created in Middle Tennessee," Haslam said. "When companies like ForceX choose to make Tennessee their home, it highlights our commitment to growing existing business and this announcement supports our goal of becoming the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Tennessee is becoming nationally recognized for its entrepreneurship and innovation, drawing talent from all corners of the globe," Hagerty said. "Our state has a rich history of producing cutting edge ideas that change the way the world operates. Under Tracy Guarino's effective leadership, ForceX is leading the way in new and vital technologies that set Tennessee apart. I am pleased ForceX can take advantage of the support that exists to grow technology companies, and I appreciate the high quality jobs they are creating in the Nashville area. I look forward to their continued presence and further expansion in Tennessee."
"In Nashville, opportunities for growth, networking and community abound," Tracy Guarino, president and CEO of ForceX, said. "The move to Charlotte Avenue not only provides us with a centralized location for our national customer base, but it also allows us to take advantage of the wonderful support system Nashville has put in place for growing technology companies. In addition, the entire team will now have access to -- and be a part of -- the thriving downtown culture and energy."
ForceX, an industry leader in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) software development and geospatial application technology programs, was founded in Clarksville, Tennessee in 2004. Since then, the company has grown from three employees to over 120. ForceX plans to retain a Clarksville location in addition to the Nashville headquarters.
"This investment by ForceX is a testament to Nashville's business-friendly environment and our deep and talented workforce," Nashville Mayor Karl Dean said. "I thank the company for choosing to expand in Nashville and create 175 jobs here with plans for even more growth. We are particularly pleased ForceX chose to be part of the redevelopment of Charlotte Avenue, a dynamic corridor in our city. This announcement is further validation that fast-growing companies are attracted to the vibrant business environment in our city."
The company plans to hire people from the local community who are excited about innovation and who want to build a career with ForceX as it continues to grow. For a list of open positions and hiring information, visit http://www.forcexinc.com/working-with-us/apply/.
ForceX is anticipated to move into its new office space at The Sheds on Charlotte development at 2200 Charlotte Avenue at the end of 2014.
About ForceX
ForceX, Inc. is a leading provider of customized technology solutions for the security and defense industry. The company develops and sustains advanced applications for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; target tracking and locating; intelligence exploitation; and mission management, navigation and support. ForceX, Inc. technology is used around the world by its government and commercial partners to aid in national security. To learn more about ForceX, Inc. visit us at www.forcexinc.com, connect with us on LinkedIn, and follow us on Twitter @ForceXInc.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named "2013 State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Find us on the web: tn.gov/ecd. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/12609
