Public Statements
Haslam Announces Transportation Grant for Springfield
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: June 24, 2014
Location: Springfield, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Department of Transportation Commissioner John Schroer announced today an $882,943 transportation alternative grant to the city of Springfield to build a major component of the city's Greenway Master Plan.
Phase III of the Pedestrian/Bicycle Greenway Project includes pedestrian and bicycle facilities along portions of South Main Street, Central Avenue West, John L. Patterson Street, and Bransford Drive. Phase III will also connect the southern portion of Springfield with the Central Business District and includes 4,000 linear feet of concrete path. New landscaping, benches, bike racks, and decorative lighting will be added.
"This project will complete a major component of Springfield's Greenway Master Plan and will provide critical links to neighborhoods, schools and parks," Haslam said. "Tennessee's downtowns are the heart of our communities, and this grant helps improve the quality of life for residents and visitors to Springfield."
The transportation alternative grant is made possible through a federally funded program formerly known as "transportation enhancement" and is administered by the Tennessee Department of Transportation (TDOT).
"Through these grants, TDOT has funded more than $306 million in non-traditional transportation projects," Schroer said. "This program has assisted communities all over the state in their efforts to revitalize downtowns, highlight historic areas, provide alternative means of transportation, and increase opportunities for economic development."
A variety of activities, such as the restoration of historic facilities, bike and pedestrian trails, landscaping and other non-traditional transportation projects, are eligible for grant funds under the federal program.
State Sen. Jim Summerville (R-Dickson) and state Rep. Joshua Evans (R-Greenbrier) represent Robertson County in the Tennessee General Assembly.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/12600
