Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty Announce Heritage Glass to Begin New Manufacturing Operations in Sullivan County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: April 29, 2014
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty along with Heritage Glass officials today announced the company will invest $15.8 million to begin new manufacturing in Kingsport, Tenn. Through this investment, Heritage Glass will create 237 new jobs in Sullivan County.

"I want to thank Heritage Glass for investing in our state and Sullivan County, and I appreciate the high quality jobs this will create for Tennesseans," Haslam said. "The manufacturing sector is a critical part of the state's strong economy, and this announcement helps us toward our goal of becoming the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."

"In Tennessee, we pride ourselves on creating the kind of business-friendly environment where companies like Heritage Glass feel confident in investing capital and beginning a new business venture," Hagerty said. "Heritage Glass is joining the distinguished ranks of other Tennessee companies with a world renowned reputation for manufacturing high quality goods. I welcome Heritage Glass to our state and wish them continued success as they work toward further expansions."

"Heritage Glass appreciates the encouragement and support the state of Tennessee, the city of Kingsport, and NETWORKS Sullivan Partnership are providing for this project," Heritage Glass President Eric Kerney said. "It will quickly bring 120 jobs to the area, and even more jobs after future expansions. The business-friendly approach of Tennessee makes us proud to establish operations here."

Heritage Glass plans to service, repair and modify existing equipment at the facility to manufacture patterned glass to be shipped worldwide. Patterned glass is used for shower doors, solar panels, dividers and privacy applications such as bathrooms, doors, sidelights, conference rooms and churches.

"This is great news for Kingsport. I'm proud to see Tennessee's pro-growth economic policies attract these kinds of high-quality jobs to Sullivan County," Lt. Governor Ron Ramsey said. "This investment by Heritage Glass will be great for Northeast Tennessee and our outstanding workforce. We appreciate their decision."

"We are extremely glad to be a part of the re-opening of an old industry that had closed and is now being renamed and opening under new ownership," Sullivan County Mayor Steve Godsey said. "I very much appreciate the faith they have displayed in Sullivan County with this endeavor to add more jobs to the surrounding community."

"I want to express my appreciation, on behalf of the citizens of Kingsport, to everyone who had a hand in making this venture become reality," Kingsport Mayor Dennis Phillips said. "The state of Tennessee, Kingsport Economic Development Board, State of Franklin Savings Bank, Kingsport Chamber of Commerce, Board of Mayor and Aldermen and others who worked tirelessly to put this together. To see the trend in manufacturing jobs return to this great nation can only be beneficial to our city that depends so much on this industry. My appreciation to everyone."

"On behalf of the Kingsport Economic Development Board, we are excited to play a part in this industrial development opportunity," Kingsport Economic Development Board Chairman Bob Feathers said. "Not only is Heritage Glass creating new manufacturing jobs, Heritage Glass is re-commissioning an existing industrial property that has been sitting idle for some time. This exciting announcement will make a significant economic impact on our community and we greatly appreciate the team at Heritage Glass for its investment in Kingsport. The continued cooperation and partnership with the state of Tennessee continues to yield high quality private investment affirming the Governor's strategy to make Tennessee the best place for new business."

Heritage Glass plans to hire 120 employees within ten weeks of opening and reach 237 employees at the facility within three years. The company anticipates production at their Kingsport facility will begin in early July 2014.

About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Tennessee was named "2013 State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Find us on the web: tn.gov/ecd. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/12325
