Public Statements
Governor Haslam Announces Community Development Block Grant for Town of Dover
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Sept. 23, 2013
Location: Dover, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam today announced the town of Dover is a recipient of a Community Development Block Grant that will assist with sewer system rehabilitation. Additional CDBG recipients will be announced in the upcoming months.
"Community Development Block Grants help communities complete projects that will ultimately lay the groundwork for future economic development opportunities," Haslam said. "I am happy to see Dover receive the assistance of CDBG funding to make necessary infrastructure improvements that will not only help the town, but also improve the quality of life for its residents."
The funds were allocated under a procedure authorized by the Tennessee General Assembly. Allocation of CDBG funds is based on priorities set at local levels where community needs are best known. The CDBG program is administered in Tennessee by the Department of Economic and Community Development.
The grant was approved following an application by the town of Dover and is supported by Sen. Mark Green, Rep. Tim Wirgau and Mayor Lesa Fitzhugh.
U.S. Rep. Marsha Blackburn also aided in securing the funds.
Details on the project and funding include:
Community

Project

CDBG Amount

Local Funds

Total Amount for Project
Dover

Sewer System Rehabilitation

$400,000

$60,000

$460,000
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Find us on the web: tn.gov/ecd. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/11399
