Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Hagerty Announce Windham Professionals Expansions in Alcoa, Hendersonville
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: April 16, 2013
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Bill Hagerty along with Windham Professionals announced today the company will expand operations at its two Tennessee locations. The expansions will add an additional 150 positions in Alcoa, Tenn. and 95 positions in Hendersonville, Tenn. and represents an investment of $500,000.
"Existing industry expansions are key to growing our state's economy and helping us reach our goal of becoming the No. 1 state in the Southeast for high quality jobs," Haslam said. "I want to thank Windham for its investment, and I appreciate the company's continued commitment to our state and the jobs provided to our citizens."
"We identified business services and call centers as one of the key sectors where Tennessee holds a unique competitive advantage," Hagerty said. "Our state offers a pro-business environment, low costs and a strong technology infrastructure, and I am pleased our business recruitment efforts in these important sectors are yielding results. Congratulations to Windham on its continued success and growth in Tennessee."
"All of us at Windham Professionals are excited to be a part of both the business communities in Hendersonville and Alcoa," Erin Zaldastani, president and CEO of Windham Professionals said. "The high quality of our current staff in both locations indicates to us that we have additional opportunity to grow our operations in Tennessee. At Windham Professionals, our focus is to be the employer of choice for call center staff. We perform extensive training and development to insure that every new employee in Hendersonville and Alcoa has the tools to become successful in their jobs. This staff investment is critical to our continued success. It is gratifying to be made to feel welcome to these great communities. "
"We are honored that Windham Professionals continues to grow its corporate workforce and to fill its new Class A regional headquarters with over 300 employees," Hendersonville Mayor Mayor Scott Foster said. "They are an integral part of Hendersonville, and we couldn't be more excited of their continued success."
"As we position our city for economic growth, we are reminded once again through Windham's expansion that your best customer is your existing customer," Don Long, Hendersonville's director of Economic and Community Development said. "Windham is a great corporate partner and this speaks once again to what a great place Hendersonville is to do business."
"Windham's workforce is from throughout Sumner County, and it is rewarding when our citizens have new job opportunities," said Paula DeBerry, chairman of Forward Sumner Economic Partnership.
"I wish to commend Windham Professionals for this additional investment in the labor force in Blount County," Blount County Mayor Ed Mitchell said. "It really shows how much this area is growing. Economically we are well above our pre-recession levels, and these expansions only make this area stronger as it shows our overall commitment keeping businesses here."
"When Windham Professionals set up operations here around two years ago, we knew this was a good fit for Alcoa, and they have been a leader in the community," Alcoa Mayor Don Mull said. "These high quality, well-paying jobs are what drives our local economy and makes this a great place to work and live. Congratulations to Windham Professionals, and we wish them continued success."
Since 1982, Windham has been a leader in the collections industry, helping clients realize new revenue streams. Windham is headquartered in Salem, NH with a regional headquarters at its Hendersonville, Tenn. location.
To apply for the newly created positions and for more information, please visit www.windhampros.com
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. The department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Find us on the web: tn.gov/ecd. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.

Source: https://news.tn.gov/node/10542
