Public Statements
Haslam Unveils New Jobs Database
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 14, 2012
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Department of Labor and Workforce Development Commissioner Karla Davis today announced a new jobs database to help connect job seekers with Tennessee employers.
Jobs4TN Online is a virtual recruiter, automatically notifying job seekers when jobs they may qualify for are posted and notifying employers when candidates who fit their needs register.
The online database contains positions from job orders placed directly by Tennessee employers, from corporate Internet sites, and from major job search engines. Jobs4TN Online also identifies available green jobs.
"The unemployment rate for Tennessee is at its lowest since November 2008 and has fallen below the national rate, but it is still too high," Haslam said. The governor committed to developing a new jobs database during his gubernatorial campaign. "With Jobs4TN Online, those without a job will have quicker and better access to job openings related to their skills, and as we work to make Tennessee an even better place to expand and start a business, we want to help employers find the employees they need."
Jobs4TN Online makes available labor market information, including demand occupations, education requirements and salaries for positions, labor force projections, and training program graduates. Information can be tailored to focus on specific communities, metro statistical areas or statewide. Employers and job seekers are encouraged to log in to Jobs4TN Online at www.jobs4tn.gov.
"This system is much more than a traditional job search engine," Davis said. "Jobs4TN Online offers extensive information for interviews, lists of local training providers, and the capability to create and send resumes."
The state's previous job search site, the Source, included job orders received by Tennessee Career Centers and jobs listed by Fortune 500 companies. Jobs4TN Online uses a more robust search that provides first-run jobs from newspapers, government sites and private job boards, and the amount of jobs listed in Tennessee has gone from 30,000 to more than 85,000.

Source:
