Public Statements
Haslam Announces Martin to Oversee Team Act Implementation
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 14, 2012
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam today announced that Larry Martin will join his staff to oversee implementation of the Tennessee Excellence and Accountability Management (TEAM) Act

His responsibilities will include coordinating and collaborating throughout state government agencies to effectively begin recruiting new employees on all levels, updating performance evaluations in all departments, and a review of employee compensation that includes the salary study funded in the governor's FY 2013-2014 budget.
"Getting the TEAM Act passed into law was only the beginning of our work," Haslam said. "Now we must make sure it is implemented effectively, which includes creating meaningful performance evaluations, truly getting a full picture of employee compensation, and changing the culture now that we can recruit the best and brightest to serve. I am grateful that Larry has agreed to take on this challenge for the taxpayers of Tennessee. Our goal is to build a state workforce that is dedicated to and focused on customer service, efficiency and effectiveness."

"This is a wonderful opportunity to work for Bill Haslam again and to be part of the implementation of the TEAM Act of 2012, which will be good for our state and our employees," Martin said.

From September 2006 to December 2011, Martin, 64, served as deputy to the mayor for both Haslam and Mayor Daniel Brown. He was responsible for Finance, Public Works, Community Development, Information Systems, Purchasing and Risk Management for the City of Knoxville.

Prior to joining city government, Martin was an executive of First Horizon/First Tennessee Bank. He joined the company in 1969 and served in various capacities. He moved to Knoxville in 1987 when he was named president of First Tennessee Bank Knoxville. When he retired, he was serving as chief operating officer for First Tennessee Financial Services with responsibility for all Tennessee Regional Bank Markets; Merchant Services Processing; Hickory Venture Capital; and the Commercial, Corporate, and Middle Market Divisions of the bank.

A native of Jackson, Tenn., Martin received his bachelor of science from the University of Tennessee's College of Business. Throughout the years, he has been involved in several community activities. In 1995, he chaired the Knoxville United Way campaign. He served as chairman of Covenant Health System, Leadership Knoxville, the Knoxville Chamber of Commerce, United Way of Greater Knoxville, and as president of the Great Smoky Mountain Council Boy Scouts of America. Currently, he is chairman of First Tennessee Bank Knoxville Advisory Board and serves on the boards of East Tennessee Children's Hospital, Project Grad, Emerald Youth Foundation, and University of Tennessee Foundation.

He and his wife, Jane, have two adult daughters, Hope and Meg, and have attended Church Street United Methodist Church in Knoxville for 24 years.

Martin will assume his new role as special assistant to the governor on May 23.

Source: http://news.tennesseeanytime.org/node/8818
