Public Statements
Governor Haslam Issues Reward in Bain Family Kidnapping Case
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 9, 2012
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam today announced a reward for information in the Bain Family kidnapping case out of Hardeman County, Tenn.
Haslam is offering $15,000 for information leading to the apprehension, arrest and conviction or the person or persons who have committed, attempted to commit or conspired to commit the kidnapping of JoAnn Bain and her three children Kyliyah, Alexandria and Adrienne Bain.
In addition, should another party issue a reward for information leading to a conviction; the state will match the reward up to $5,000. Twenty-Fifth Judicial District Attorney General Mike Dunavant made the reward request.
"It is my sincerest hope that this reward will lead to new information that brings those responsible for this crime to justice," Haslam said.
JoAnn, 31, and her daughters were reported missing from their Whiteville, Tenn. home on April 27, 2012. The central suspect is Adam Mayes, who was considered a friend of the family, and he was with them in their home early that morning. He is considered armed and dangerous.
Mayes was last seen in Guntown, Miss. on May 1, 2012. On May 5, 2012 the bodies of JoAnn and Adrienne, 14, were discovered buried in a shallow grave behind the house of Mayes' mother Mary in Guntown. Alexandria, 12 and Kyliyah, 8, are still missing and are believed to be with Mayes. Investigators have information that Mayes may have changed his appearance as well as that of the missing victims.
Mary Mayes, 65, and Mayes' ex-wife, 31-year-old Guntown resident Teresa Ann Mayes, were charged Tuesday for their roles in the kidnapping.
The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is requesting that anyone with information regarding the whereabouts of Mayes, Alexandria and Kyliyah call the TBI at 1-800-TBI-FIND. The TBI has added Mayes to the state's Top Ten Most Wanted list and a $6,000 reward is being offered for information leading to his whereabouts and arrest. The FBI and U.S. Marshals Service are offering a $50,000 reward for information leading to the location of the missing victims and the arrest of Mayes.

Source: http://news.tennesseeanytime.org/node/8787
