Public Statements
More Tennessee Counties Added to Federal Disaster Declaration
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: June 3, 2011
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam announced today the federal government will provide Individual Assistance in two counties and Public Assistance to local governments in 25 counties under the current disaster declaration for the severe storms, straight-line winds and tornadoes of April 25 to April 28, 2011, with a federal designation of DR-1974.
"I am pleased the federal government will be providing assistance to additional counties and individuals in Tennessee so they can begin rebuilding their lives and communities," Haslam said. "This has been a trying year for many of our neighbors, and our local and state agencies are working very closely to make sure we identify where help is needed so we can recover from these severe weather incidents."
INDIVIDUAL ASSISTANCE
Individuals in Knox and Montgomery counties are now eligible for federal assistance and residents who sustained losses in these counties can begin applying for assistance immediately through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), by registering online at www.disasterassistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362).
More information on FEMA's Individual Assistance program is available at www.fema.gov/assistance/index.shtm.
PUBLIC ASSISTANCE
FEMA has approved 10 counties in east Tennessee and 15 counties in middle Tennessee as eligible to receive federal reimbursement in all categories of FEMA's Public Assistance program.
The east Tennessee counties include: Blount, Campbell, Fentress, Knox, Loudon, Pickett, Polk, Scott, Sequatchie and Sullivan.
The middle Tennessee counties include: Franklin, Giles, Hickman, Houston, Humphreys, Jackson, Lawrence, Lewis, Lincoln, Marshall, Montgomery, Moore, Perry, Smith, and Wayne.
The designation for Public Assistance allows government entities and certain private non-profits in the designated counties to apply for reimbursement of specific expenses related to disaster response and recovery.
More information on FEMA's Public Assistance program can be found at www.fema.gov/government/grant/pa/index.shtm.
More information on Tennessee's four federal disaster declarations in 2011 can be found on FEMA's website here: DR-1965, DR-1974, DR-1978 and DR-1979.
For more updates regarding the state's response, visit the TEMA website at www.tnema.org.

Source: http://news.tn.gov/node/7289
