Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Vantage LLC to Establish Manufacturing Operation in Nashville
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Aug. 25, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam, Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd and Vantage LLC officials today announced the company is investing $5 million to establish a manufacturing plant in Nashville. Vantage will create 100 manufacturing and assembly jobs during the next five years.
"Tennessee is known worldwide for its manufacturing legacy and I am pleased to welcome Vantage to our state's growing roster of manufacturers," Haslam said. "Vantage's decision to bring operations to Tennessee showcases the strong business climate and highly-skilled workforce Tennessee offers advanced manufacturing companies from all over the world. I would like to thank Vantage for its commitment to bring 100 new jobs to Davidson County as we push closer to our goal of being the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Vantage's decision to invest in Tennessee is a testament to our state's thriving manufacturing sector and our pipeline of workforce talent that can meet the needs of advanced manufacturers," Boyd said. "Over the last five years, Tennessee's manufacturing sector has posted the second largest GDP increase in the Southeast. When I met with Vantage co-founders Caleb Crye and Gregg Thompson, I was immediately impressed with their company's operation. Vantage will be a vital part of Team Tennessee's manufacturing growth for many years to come and I'd like to thank Caleb and Gregg for bringing 100 new jobs to Nashville."
Vantage is a start-up created by the founders of Crye Precision, a leading design and manufacturing firm headquartered in Brooklyn, New York. Crye has been designing and producing apparel, armor and other equipment for the military, law enforcement and civilian markets since 2000.
Vantage will begin producing a brand new shotgun at its Nashville plant, which will be operational in the fall of 2016. The company will move into a 22,000-square-foot facility on Murfreesboro Road.
"We couldn't be more excited to begin this new endeavor in Nashville," Gregg Thompson, co-founder of Vantage, said. "It's absolutely critical to the success of the company that we have the right people at the helm and the right environment to grow. We've come to the clear conclusion that Tennessee, and Nashville specifically, offers a top-notch workforce and a climate that is unwavering in its support of innovation. It's an understatement to say that we are ecstatic to build this operation and this brand in Tennessee. It's truly a perfect fit."
"TVA and Nashville Electric Service congratulate and welcome Vantage to Nashville, Tennessee," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "Creating quality job opportunities in the Valley is a fundamental part of TVA's mission of service and we are proud to partner with Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, the Nashville Area Chamber of Commerce and Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development to help further that mission."
Nashville and Davidson County are represented by Speaker Beth Harwell (R -- Nashville), Rep. Bo Mitchell (D -- Nashville), Rep. Bill Beck (D -- Nashville), Rep. Mike Stewart (D -- Nashville), Rep. Jason Powell (D -- Nashville), Rep. Brenda Gilmore (D -- Nashville), Rep. John Ray Clemmons (D -- Nashville), Rep. Harold Love (D -- Nashville), Rep. Sherry Jones (D -- Nashville), Rep. Darren Jernigan (D -- Old Hickory), Sen. Steven Dickerson (R -- Nashville), Sen. Ferrell Haile (R -- Gallatin), Sen. Jeff Yarbro (D -- Nashville) and Sen. Thelma Harper (D -- Nashville) in the Tennessee General Assembly.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies that help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. To grow and strengthen Team Tennessee, the department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Tennessee is the only three-time winner of "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/45071
