Public Statements
Haslam Comments On Meth Issue In Southeast Tennessee
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Sept. 28, 2010
Location: Athens, TN

Will Work With State and Local Law Enforcement Officials to Tackle Problem
Republican gubernatorial nominee and Knoxville Mayor Bill Haslam issued the following statement today after a stop in McMinn County -- a county among many in East Tennessee struggling to fight growing trends of methamphetamine abuse.

"Meth production and abuse is an issue we must address throughout the state, but it has become especially challenging in McMinn County and other parts of East Tennessee," said Haslam. "This is a drug that is extremely dangerous and that has had a detrimental impact on many lives.

"From those who use and suffer health consequences or end up in jail, to drug producers and others who are harmed through meth-related accidents, to the countless children and other innocent victims who have their lives disrupted, meth is incredibly destructive and has no place in our society," Haslam continued.

"The Meth Free Tennessee Act was an important step for our state, but as meth producers adapt and find new ways to make this drug we must renew and strengthen our efforts to fight it," Haslam added. "As governor, I will address this issue head-on and work toward issues at the state level as well as support for local law enforcement officials engaged in this important battle."

Bill Haslam is the two-term Mayor of Knoxville, re-elected in 2007 with 87% of the vote. A hardworking, conservative public servant, he led Knoxville to become one of the top ten metropolitan areas for business and expansion, while reducing the city's debt, tripling the rainy day fund, and bringing property taxes to the lowest rate in 50 years. An executive leader with a proven record of success, he helped grow his family's small business from 800 employees into one of Tennessee's largest companies with 14,000 employees. His combination of executive and public service experience makes him uniquely qualified to be Tennessee's next Governor. Haslam is the right person at the right time to lead Tennessee.

Bill and Crissy Haslam have two daughters, Annie and Leigh, and a son, Will, who resides in Knoxville with his wife, Hannah.

Source: http://www.billhaslam.com/site/apps/nlnet/content2.aspx?c=ieJPIWOtEnH&b=5478963&ct=8722025
