Public Statements
Haslam Announces Plan to Create a "Dashboard" for Tennessee
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Sept. 13, 2010
Location: Nashville, TN

Explains Data-Driven Approach to Governance and Accountability
Republican gubernatorial nominee and Knoxville Mayor Bill Haslam announced today his plan to develop a dashboard for his administration's policy goals based around his overall vision of making Tennessee the No. 1 state in the Southeast for high quality jobs and designed to measure the state's progress and keep government accountable.

Speaking at a meeting of the Nashville Rotary Club Monday, Mayor Haslam explained the concept that will focus on measuring the state's progress in five key areas: jobs and economic development, education and workforce development, fiscal strength, health and public safety.

"My top priority as governor will be jobs, but in order to be a leading state for high quality job creation, we have to make improvements in other areas as well," Haslam said. "As governor, my comprehensive vision for jobs will be the driving force that will push our state forward -- whether the issue is graduation rates, the budget or health care."

The dashboard discussion included a timeline for development, which includes building a team and setting goals after the election, conducting a top-to-bottom review of state government in order to establish benchmarks for the state and determine the exact metrics and goalposts that will be used to measure progress.

Perhaps the most critical element will be building consensus around a set of objectives and measurements that will be used.

"The key will be gaining buy-in from as many people as possible," said Haslam. "I plan to issue an annual report card that will measure state government's progress, but in order for that to be meaningful there needs to be consensus around the direction we set for the state."

Mayor Haslam's presentation to the Rotary Club also included information on the challenges awaiting the next governor, reasons for optimism about the state's future, examples of how he's addressed similar challenges in Knoxville, and a discussion of his Jobs4TN plan released in June.

Source: http://www.billhaslam.com/site/apps/nlnet/content2.aspx?c=ieJPIWOtEnH&b=5435775&ct=8653861
