Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce ATC Automation to Expand Cookeville Facility
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Aug. 18, 2016
Location: Cookeville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam, Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd and ATC Automation officials today announced the manufacturer is investing $10.4 million to expand operations in Cookeville and create 110 new jobs during the next five years.
The majority of ATC's hires will be production engineers as the firm positions to meet growing national and global demand for its advanced manufacturing equipment. In total, ATC will add more than 65,000 additional square feet to its existing facility in Putnam County.
"We've focused on creating and fostering a business climate that helps attract new companies to Tennessee. But it is just as important to help existing businesses like ATC grow and excel here," Haslam said. "The Brookings Institution recently found Tennessee is growing advanced industry jobs faster than any other state in the country. These are exactly the types of high-paying, high-skilled jobs that ATC is creating in Cookeville and I'd like to thank ATC for bringing us another step closer to our goal of being the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"ATC has a long legacy of innovation in Cookeville. For nearly four decades, ATC has embodied Tennessee's manufacturing spirit and has been a vital part of Team Tennessee," Boyd said. "Since 2010, Tennessee's advanced manufacturers have created jobs at a 27.1 percent clip, more than three times the pace of the national average. ATC is an integral part of those gains and its decision to bring 110 well-paying jobs speaks volumes to Tennessee's skilled workforce and the investments our state and local communities have made in education."
ATC produces advanced manufacturing equipment for the automotive, medical, energy and consumer products markets. The company designs, engineers and builds assembly lines and test equipment for advanced manufacturers, ranging from small components to complete turnkey systems.
Bill Curran, ATC's president, said expanding the Cookeville facility is needed to hire new engineers and support staff in order to meet growing demand for its equipment from manufacturers across the globe, including Tennessee-based companies.
"We are excited to begin our latest expansion project," Curran said. "ATC's plans through 2020 include growth from $75 million to over $100 million in revenue and employment growth from 240 currently to over 300 employees."
As part of the expansion, ATC will construct 45,000 square feet of new manufacturing space and 21,000 square feet of administrative and engineering offices. The expansion to the existing Cookeville facility is expected to be completed by mid-2017, with potential new manufacturing starting in the first quarter of next year. ATC will also make upgrades to its existing facility and purchase another building currently being leased.
"There are many people and organizations we wish to thank that enable this growth," Curran continued. "It starts with our customers and employees. We have a highly specialized workforce that has allowed the continued growth of ATC. We employ over 100 engineers, with many coming from Tennessee Tech as well as skilled trades from our technical colleges. It includes community partners, the city of Cookeville, Putnam County as well as government support from TVA and TNECD."
Local officials and representatives from the Tennessee Valley Authority applauded ATC's decision to expand in Cookeville.
"The city of Cookeville could not be more excited about this announcement," Cookeville Mayor Ricky Shelton said. "The partnership between ATC and our community over the past 35 years has been incredible and it's a great testament to this city that a company as advanced as ATC would choose to grow and expand here. An announcement like this can build momentum for more jobs in this sector and grow our community's per-capita income tremendously. ATC is not only a creator of highly-skilled jobs, but has been instrumental in creating our workforce development programs."
"This is great news for Putnam County and the region. We love to see new companies locating here, but the best indicator of a growing economy is when your existing local businesses like ATC are expanding," Putnam County Executive Randy Porter said. "With Tennessee Tech, we have one of the South's best engineering programs and this expansion is a way to keep that talent here. We are proud to have ATC in Putnam County and congratulate them on the new expansion."
"TVA and Cookeville Electric Department congratulate ATC on its decision to expand operations and create new job opportunities in Cookeville," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "It's always an exciting day when an existing company is committed to continuing growth in the Valley, and we are pleased to partner with the Cookeville-Putnam County Chamber of Commerce and Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development to celebrate this announcement."
ATC is currently hiring. The company has openings available for machinists, electricians, as well as electrical and mechanical engineers. Applicants can visit the jobs section of ATC's website at www.automationtool.com or email a resume to jobs@automationtool.com.
Cookeville and Putnam County are represented by Sen. Paul Bailey (R -- Sparta), Rep. Ryan Williams (R -- Cookeville) and Rep. Cameron Sexton (R -- Crossville) in the Tennessee General Assembly.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies that help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. To grow and strengthen Team Tennessee, the department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Tennessee is the only three-time winner of "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @TNECD. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/TNECD.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/44883
