Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Chattanooga Seating Systems to Expand in Hamilton County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Aug. 17, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd announced today that Chattanooga Seating Systems will expand its existing Chattanooga facility. The automotive seat manufacturer will invest $5.4 million and create 190 jobs in Hamilton County.
"When companies like Chattanooga Seating choose to expand their existing businesses here, it speaks to our business-friendly climate and continues to establish Tennessee as a worldwide leader in the automotive sector," Haslam said. "We thank Chattanooga Seating for its investment and for bringing us one step closer toward our goal of making Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Tennessee employs more in the automotive sector than any other state in the Southeast and it is welcomed news that Chattanooga Seating will be adding more employees to this sector and to our strong workforce," Boyd said. "I want to thank Chattanooga Seating for choosing to expand in Hamilton County, and we are honored to have them as a part of Team Tennessee."
Chattanooga Seating Systems, a joint venture of Magna Seating and Hollingsworth Logistics, manufactures and supplies seats for vehicles assembled at Volkswagen Chattanooga.
"On this expansion project we have been fortunate to work with many talented and committed people at the state and local level who understand our business and help achieve common goals," Hollingsworth Logistics CEO Stephen Barr said. "We are pleased to be able to bring additional jobs and investment to the Chattanooga community, and we look forward to continued success in the service of our customer, Volkswagen."
Chattanooga Seating will expand its current facility in Chattanooga. With this expansion, the company will be updating the facility to make room for new equipment. Chattanooga Seating will also be adding additional space to the facility by utilizing an unoccupied building near its current facility.
Local leaders expressed gratitude to Chattanooga Seating for choosing to expand in Hamilton County.
"As one of the first tier one VW suppliers to locate here, Chattanooga Seating has had a positive impact on our area," Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke said. "With this expansion, they will more than double their workforce over the next five years and create good, middle-class jobs for more Chattanoogans."
"We're glad to see growth for a valuable member of our business community, and an important supplier for VW," Hamilton County Mayor Jim Coppinger added.
Chattanooga and Hamilton County are represented by Sen. Bo Watson (R -- Hixson), Sen. Todd Gardenhire (R -- Chattanooga), Rep. Gerald McCormick (R -- Chattanooga), Rep. Mike Carter (R -- Ooltewah), Marc Gravitt (R -- East Ridge), Rep. Patsy Hazlewood (R -- Signal Mountain) and Rep. JoAnne Favors (D -- Chattanooga) in the Tennessee General Assembly.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. To grow and strengthen Team Tennessee, the department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Tennessee is the only three-time winner of "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @TNECD. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/TNECD.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/44856
