Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Forward Air to Expand in Greeneville
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Aug. 3, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Forward Air officials announced today the trucking and logistics company will invest $4.3 million to expand its Greeneville operations and create approximately 105 new jobs in Greene County.
"Forward Air has been part of Tennessee's robust logistics and distribution industry for nearly three decades, and the company's continued investment speaks volumes about our great business climate," Haslam said. "Thank you to Forward Air for continuing to grow in Greeneville and Greene County. This expansion helps us reach our goal of making Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"It is always exciting news when a company chooses to expand in our state," Boyd said. "There are over 263,000 Tennesseans employed in the transportation, logistics and distribution industry with 12 percent growth expected over the next 10 years. I want to thank Forward Air for adding these jobs to this steadily growing sector and for being a valuable member of Team Tennessee."
Founded originally as Landair Transport in 1981, Forward Air is a leader in transportation and logistics. The company has grown exponentially since its start and has expanded its services to include an array of logistics services. Forward Air operates through four principle business segments: Expedited LTL, Expedited Truckload (TLX), Intermodal and Pool Distribution. The company is the 35th largest for-hire carrier in the U.S.
"For approximately 26 years, Forward Air has had the pleasure to operate in Greeneville and Greene County. This is an incredibly passionate and supportive community, and we are excited to have the opportunity to expand and grow with it," Forward Air CEO Bruce Campbell said. "We look forward to being in this area for years to come. Our employees are extremely dedicated, and we would like to thank them for their hard work and support over the years. We would also like to thank the governor's office, Greeneville and Greene County leadership, Tennessee Valley Authority, and all our other partners in Tennessee for their continued support of our growth in this state."
With this expansion, Forward Air will be growing to accommodate its existing and new workforce in a consolidated location and the build-out of new data center space. Construction is currently underway and the facility will be completed by fall 2016.
Local leaders and partners expressed gratitude to Forward Air for choosing to expand in Greene County.
"Forward Air expanding in Greene County is an announcement that the community should be very excited about," Greene County Mayor David Crum said. "It will provide the opportunity to retain and increase jobs in our community. Not only will this project provide long term stable jobs, it will provide the opportunity to breathe life into a facility that has been a landmark in our community. I want to thank all those that have been involved in this project and what it will mean for Greene County."
"TVA and Greeneville Light and Power System congratulate Forward Air on its decision to expand in Greeneville, Tennessee," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "At the core of TVA's mission of service is working to attract and retain quality jobs to the Valley and we are proud to partner with Greene County Partnership and Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development to help further that mission."
Greeneville and Greene County are represented by Sen. Steve Southerland (R -- Morristown), Rep. David Hawk (R -- Greeneville) and Rep. Jeremy Faison (R -- Cosby) in the Tennessee General Assembly.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/44501
