Public Statements
Haslam, TDEC Announce Grants for Camden, Big Sandy
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 29, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) today announced Local Park and Recreation Fund grants to help fund improvements at Camden City Park and Big Sandy City Park.
"Parks and recreation areas are so important to the quality of life of our citizens," Haslam said. "As a state, we're only as good as our local communities. This is a very competitive process, with locals putting up half the cost, so a big congratulations to Camden and Big Sandy and their local officials for making these happen."
A $112,000 Local Park and Recreation Grant will fund Phase One Improvements for Big Sandy City Park, including an additional ballfield, new restrooms, playground enhancements and greater accessibility at the park.
A $263,750 Local Park and Recreation Grant will help support improvements at various locations at Camden City Park, including new playground surfacing, new restrooms, softball field enhancements and increased accessibility to playground equipment.
TDEC will award more than $15.8 million in grants to fund local parks and recreation projects in 55 different communities across Tennessee this summer.
The Local Parks and Recreation Fund grant program was established by the Tennessee General Assembly in 1991 to provide local governments with funds to purchase land for parks, natural areas, greenways and recreational facilities. The funds also may be used for development of trails and projects in parks, natural areas and greenways.
All LPRF grants require a 50 percent match by the recipient. Grant recipients were selected through a scoring process with careful consideration given to the projects that met the selection criteria and expressed the greatest local recreation need. For more information, visit http://www.tennessee.gov/environment/article/grants-local-parks-and-recreation-fund-lprf-grants.
Sen. John Stevens and Rep. Tim Wirgau represent Benton County in the Tennessee General Assembly.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/environment/news/44375
