Public Statements
Haslam Announces Jobs, ARC and TDEC Grants in Dunlap
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 29, 2016
Location: Dunlap, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam was in Dunlap today to announce that Precision Military Aerodynamics, which manufactures parachutes for sporting and military use around the world, is investing $1.8 million in its Dunlap facility and creating 100 new full-time jobs. Haslam also announced that Dunlap is receiving a $200,350 Appalachian Regional Commission Grant and a $500,000 Local Park and Recreation Grant.
"Whether it is engineering the latest high-performance aircraft or designing the most advanced parachutes for elite Special Forces, Tennessee is known for its strong ties to the defense and aerospace industry," Haslam said. "Precision Military Aerodynamics is one of the state's leaders in this thriving sector. The creation of 100 new jobs will be a boost for the local economy and increase opportunities for Dunlap and Sequatchie County residents."
"Some of the world's top aerospace and defense firms operate in Tennessee. It takes a highly skilled workforce to meet their needs. And in Tennessee, we're able to do just that, with more than 8,300 Tennesseans working in this dynamic sector," Tennessee Economic and Community Development (TNECD) Commissioner Randy Boyd said. "Today's announcement shows that our efforts to promote business expansions and economic development in rural parts of Tennessee are bearing fruit."
Precision Military Aerodynamics recently moved into its new 200,000-square-foot facility in Dunlap to expand into new lines of production.
"Since 1980, we've had continuous operations in Dunlap and Sequatchie County. We could locate anywhere, but it's the work ethic, attention to detail and the quality of the people and employees in Southeast Tennessee that makes all the difference," Galloway said. "As we're shipping our products across the world, we're finding our customers want American-made. This is a sizable expansion for Precision Military Aerodynamics, and we're proud to be doing so here in Dunlap."
Haslam and Boyd announced that Dunlap is the recipient of a $200,350 Appalachian Regional Commission grant to assist the community with industrial site improvements. The Dunlap ARC grant will be used to construct an access road and upgrade the water pumping station in the Dunlap Industrial Park for the Precision Military Aerodynamics location.
Each year, ARC provides funding for several hundred projects across the region in the focus areas of economic opportunities, ready workforce, critical infrastructure, natural and cultural assets, and leadership and community capacity. ARC has invested in the region for more than 50 years.
The Local Park and Recreation Grant of $500,000 for Dunlap is administered by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) and goes toward Phase II of the development of Harris Park. The funds go toward a new splash pad, restrooms, family pavilion and civic plaza space that could host additional community events like a farmers' market.
"These developments will help Harris Park continue to be popular area for residents and others outside the community," TDEC Commissioner Bob Martineau said. "We're grateful to be able to help fund these projects, which will pay dividends for our communities now and in the future."
The 25-year-old Local Parks and Recreation Fund (LPRF) provides local governments with resources to support development and improvements to local parks, greenways, trails and recreational facilities. This year, the state is awarding more than $15.8 million in grants to fund local parks and creation projects in 55 different communities across Tennessee.
Dunlap and Sequatchie County are represented in the Tennessee General Assembly by Sen. Janice Bowling and Rep. Ron Travis.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/44380
