Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce City of Sneedville to Receive Appalachian Regional Commission Grant
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 28, 2016
Location: Sneedville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd announced today that the city of Sneedville is the recipient of a $500,000 Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) grant that will be used to improve the city's wastewater system.
"The Appalachian Regional Commission plays an important role in helping so many of our Tennessee communities prepare for future economic development opportunities and continued growth," Haslam said. "In order to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs, we need to invest in our communities to ensure not only that Tennessee is a great place to do business, but that it's also a great place to live, work and raise a family."
Sneedville will receive a $500,000 grant that will be used to renovate its wastewater treatment plant, which will enhance its performance and bring the plant into regulatory compliance.
"More than 50 East and Middle Tennessee counties are a part of the Appalachian Regional Commission, and we are fortunate to receive funds to make improvements in communities throughout those counties," Boyd said. "I am pleased to see that Sneedville is taking steps to prepare for new business and create better living conditions for the families that reside there."
Each year ARC provides funding for several hundred projects across the region in the focus areas of economic opportunities, ready workforce, critical infrastructure, natural and cultural assets, and leadership and community capacity. ARC has invested in the region for more than 50 years.
The grant was awarded following an application made by the city of Sneedville and is supported by Sen. Frank Niceley (R-Strawberry Plains), Rep. Gary Hicks (R-Rogersville), Hancock County Mayor Thomas Harrison and Sneedville Mayor Dean Rhea.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/44344
