Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Teleperformance to Expand in Bristol
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 27, 2016
Location: Bristol, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Teleperformance officials today announced the company will expand in Bristol.
Teleperformance, a worldwide leader in customer experience management, will create approximately 500 new jobs at its operation in Sullivan County during the next five years.
"It speaks volumes to the business climate we've been able to create in Tennessee when existing companies flourish and expand their operations," Haslam said. "We welcome Teleperformance's commitment to create more than 500 new jobs for Sullivan County as we strive to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"With roughly 700 employees in Tennessee today, Teleperformance is one of the major customer service operators in the state and a significant part of an industry that employs nearly 13,500 Tennesseans," Boyd said. "We're pleased to partner with a growing international company, known around the world for helping businesses and their customers alike, and we welcome Teleperformance's continued contribution to the Bristol community."
"We are fortunate to be a part of the wonderful community of Bristol and to grow our presence in Tennessee," Miranda Collard, Teleperformance's president of Enterprise Delivery, said. "Our employees from across the Bristol area are incredibly passionate and hardworking, and we are grateful for their dedication over the years. We would also like to thank the governor's office for its continued support of our growth in the state, and we look forward to being here for years to come."
Teleperformance's Bristol operation provides inbound and outbound customer service for clients. The company's new capital investment will go toward additional equipment to accommodate the new hires. Teleperformance serves customers globally at its Bristol call center, located at 2536 W. State Street.
State and local elected officials applauded Teleperformance's pledge to create hundreds of new jobs in Bristol.
"It is fantastic to see Teleperformance expand in Bristol. Northeast Tennessee's workforce is well-educated, hard-working and highly-skilled," Lt. Gov. Ron Ramsey said. "It is exciting to see a great company like Teleperformance recognize our superior workforce and pro-growth business environment by investing further in our great state."
"Seeing the addition of more than 500 new jobs in our community with Teleperformance serves as a further testament to Bristol being a superb location for businesses to locate and expand," Bristol Mayor Chad Keen said. "Our available workforce is a tremendous asset in this region, and we are thrilled to see more and more businesses taking advantage of it by expanding their footprint here in Bristol."
"The most important vote a community can get is from an existing company that decides to expand its operations," Sullivan County Mayor Richard Venable said. "We thank Teleperformance for its confidence that Sullivan County is the place to continue to grow its successful business."
Bristol and Sullivan County are represented by Lt. Gov. Ron Ramsey (R -- Blountville), Rep. Jon Lundberg (R -- Bristol), Rep. Timothy Hill (R -- Blountville) and Rep. Bud Hulsey (R -- Kingsport) in the Tennessee General Assembly.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/44280
