Public Statements
Haslam Announces TDEC, ECD Grants for Huntingdon, Clarksburg, Carroll County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 26, 2016
Location: Huntingdon, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam today announced four grants totaling $506,750 for Huntingdon, Clarksburg and Carroll County from the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) and the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development (TNECD).
The grants include:
Huntingdon
$250,000 TDEC Local Park and Recreation Grant
$169,000 TDEC Clean TN Energy Grant
Clarksburg
$37,750 TDEC Local Park and Recreation Grant
Carroll County
$50,000 TNECD Tourism Enhancement Grant
"We presented four grants today, and they do a number of different things, but at the end of the day what they all do is help improve the quality of life for citizens throughout Carroll County," Haslam said. "Our goal at the state level is to make Tennessee the very best place to live, work and raise a family, and I want to thank local officials for their partnership in making these grants happen and achieving that goal."
Huntingdon received a grant of $250,000 for its Kelley Sports Complex. The Local Park and Recreation Grant will support Phase II of a project that began in 2012. Phase II includes a combination concessions, restrooms, storage and press box building. It will provide necessary site work to bring utilities to the facility, construct the building and provide accessible walkways compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act. Electrical infrastructure will be installed in the building to accommodate future lighting for the ball field.
Huntingdon also received a $169,000 TDEC Clean TN Energy Grant for water treatment plant improvements. The funds go toward equipment that will reduce energy usage by more than 320,000 kilowatt hours annually, resulting in annual savings of $20,000 per year on the water treatment plant's power bill and eliminating yearly air emissions by more than 200 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents.
Haslam announced Clarksburg will receive a Local Park and Recreation Grant of $37,750 for the city to make improvements at Clarksburg City Park. The project will provide new playground equipment and new surfacing that will update features, increase accessibility and create a safer place for children of all ages to play.
"We are pleased we can assist these communities on these projects," TDEC Commissioner Bob Martineau said. "From providing recreational facilities to addressing important environmental issues, these grants will be a boost for the citizens of Huntingdon and Clarksburg. We are excited to work with these communities."
The 25-year-old Local Parks and Recreation Grant program provides local governments across Tennessee with resources to support development and improvements to local parks, greenways, trails and recreational facilities.
Funding for the Clean TN Energy Grant program comes from an April 2011 Clean Air Act settlement with the Tennessee Valley Authority that provides $26 million to Tennessee over five years. Tennessee has awarded more than $15 million in Clean TN Energy Grants since 2012. This summer the state is announcing 12 grants totaling more than $1 million for energy projects across the state.
Carroll County receives a $50,000 Tourism Enhancement Grant from TNECD to support improvements at the Carroll County Shooting Sports Park. It will allow Carroll County to improve safety features and increase the recruitment of state and multi-state regional competitions.
The Tourism Enhancement Grant is a new program to assist cities and counties in improving tourism asset infrastructure. The program was funded jointly by TNECD and the Tennessee Department of Tourist Development with the assistance of the Appalachian Regional Commission.
"Tourism development is economic development," TNECD Commissioner Randy Boyd said. "The funds allow our communities to reach their potential, and we are pleased we can work with Carroll County in this effort."
"This is an excellent way to assist Carroll County," Tourist Development Commissioner Kevin Triplett said. "We are glad to partner with the Department of Economic and Community Development on this program in communities across our state."
Sen. John Stevens and Rep. Curtis Halford represent Carroll County in the Tennessee General Assembly.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/44217
