Public Statements
TBDN Tennessee Company Expanding in Jackson
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 21, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with TBDN Tennessee Company officials announced today the company will invest an estimated $18.8 million over the next several years to expand operations at its Jackson facility. The automotive supplier will create approximately 35 new jobs in Madison County.
"With over 920 automotive suppliers in Tennessee, it is always good news when one of those suppliers chooses to expand in our state," Boyd said. "Thanks, TBDN, for creating these valuable jobs in Jackson and for strengthening Team Tennessee."
"We are very happy to be able to bring this new business to Jackson," TBDN Senior Manager of Human Resources Jill Austin said. "This investment has happened because we have dedicated and hard-working team members, and the support of great local community and government leaders."
TBDN manufactures four product segments: air filters, air filter housings, oil filters and fuel filter systems. Each segment undergoes rigorous design, engineering, manufacturing, assembly and testing. With this expansion, TBDN will be able to produce new product lines and create new processes.
"TBDN Tennessee remains a strong supporter of Jackson for which we are thankful," Jackson Mayor Jerry Gist said. "This expansion shows their success and enhances our city's economic environment."
"The expansion of TBDN Tennessee emphasizes their accomplishments and the potential in our community for industries to thrive," Madison County Mayor Jimmy Harris said. "Because of TBDN's commitment to our community, Jackson-Madison County continues to advance economically."
TBDN Tennessee Company is a joint venture between Toyota Boshoku Corporation and DENSO International America, Inc. to produce air filter elements, cabin air filters, air induction systems, oil filters, and fuel system filters and components for the automotive industry. Its customers include major automobile manufacturers and aftermarket distributors worldwide. The company was founded in 1989 and currently employs 477 people.
To apply for an available position, visit the TBDN plant at 1410 Hwy 70 Bypass, Jackson, TN or email resumes to careers@tbdn.com.
Jackson and Madison County are represented by Sen. Ed Jackson (R -- Jackson), Rep. Jimmy Eldridge (R -- Jackson) and Rep. Johnny Shaw (D -- Bolivar) in the Tennessee General Assembly.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/44101
