Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce 29 Communities to Receive Tourism Enhancement Grants
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 20, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd announced today that 29 communities will receive over $999,000 in Tourism Enhancement Grants to assist communities with tourism infrastructure assets.
"We want to congratulate all 29 communities on receiving Tourism Enhancement Grants," Haslam said. "These grants showcase how great the partnership is between tourist development and economic development. With the support of these grants, each community will be better equipped to succeed in our state and I look forward to seeing these Tennessee communities thrive."
The grants assist counties and cities in improving local assets to increase the economic impact of tourism.
"I am pleased to announce these 29 communities that have been awarded the Tourism Enhancement Grant," Boyd said. "It is always exciting when communities choose to invest in economic development initiatives to grow and succeed in our state. Tourism development is economic development, and with the assistance of the Tourism Enhancement Grant and our partnership with Commissioner Kevin Triplett and the Department of Tourist Development, each community will be able to invest in their assets and grow their local economy."
The Tourism Enhancement Grants were jointly funded by the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development and the Tennessee Department of Tourist Development with the assistance of the Appalachian Regional Commission.
"We celebrate with each community receiving the Tourism Enhancement Grant," Tennessee Department of Tourist Development Commissioner Kevin Triplett said. "Tourism development is an important part of every community, but in some cases we were finding a lack of infrastructure to fully take advantage of some tourism opportunities. We appreciate our great partners at TNECD for coming to the table with this initiative for communities to enhance their local tourism assets."
An advisory committee made up of staff from the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development, the Tennessee Department of Tourist Development, the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation and the Tennessee Department of Agriculture selected the 29 communities from a pool of 61 grant applications.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/44082
