Public Statements
Commissioner Boyd to Lead Tennessee Delegation to SEUS-Japan Conference in Tokyo
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 18, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd will lead Tennessee's delegation at the 39th Annual Joint Meeting of the Southeast U.S./Japan and Japan-U.S. Southeast Associations (SEUS-Japan) in Tokyo from September 20-22.
The joint conference of the two associations celebrates longstanding economic and cultural ties between Japan and the Southeast U.S. The prestigious gathering brings together Japan's top CEOs, corporate executives and government officials alongside governors and economic development leaders from southeastern states.
Boyd's trip comes on the heels of a ten-day visit TNECD officials and Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam made to Japan, China and Korea this spring.
"I look forward to bringing Team Tennessee's story back to Tokyo again later this year," Boyd said. "The strong bond Team Tennessee has developed with Japanese businesses over the years has transformed our state's economy. More than 170 Japanese-owned companies have together invested over $16 billion in Tennessee, directly employing 44,280 Tennesseans.
"This trip gives us a chance to continue the fruitful face-to-face meetings we've had with leading Japanese companies and also forge new relationships as we look for future partners to make Tennessee the No. 1 state in the Southeast for high quality jobs," Boyd added.
U.S. Ambassador to Japan Caroline Kennedy is scheduled to attend the annual conference, which will feature networking alongside sessions on energy, investment, trade and the environment.
Tennessee companies last year exported $1.9 billion worth of products to Japan, which has long been a leading trade partner for the state as well as the top country for foreign direct investment in Tennessee.
To request more information about becoming a member of the Tennessee Delegation with Commissioner Boyd this fall and a special pre-conference study mission, contact Leigh Wieland with the Japan-America Society of Tennessee at jastninfo@jastn.org, or register online at https://seus2016.eventbrite.com before Aug. 19.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/44001
