Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Gap Inc. Expansion at Gallatin Distribution Facility
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 14, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Gap Inc. officials announced today the global retailer will create more than 100 new jobs at the company's Sumner County distribution center.
Gap Inc. is investing $3.1 million in its Gallatin campus on Gap Boulevard during the next five years. Most of the new capital will go into technology upgrades as the company expands online fulfillment capabilities in Middle Tennessee.
"Just three years ago, Gap Inc. invested $35 million to bring 90 jobs to Gallatin," Haslam said. "Gap Inc. has been a cornerstone of Tennessee's robust logistics and distribution industry for nearly two decades and we welcome their continued commitment to create more jobs for Sumner County. The growth in Gallatin by one of the world's leading retail brands brings us another step closer as we work to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Like many retailers today, Gap Inc. is now putting more resources into e-commerce. And they are also finding that Tennessee, with its central location and world-class infrastructure, is the perfect place to do so," Boyd said. "More than 263,000 Tennesseans work in the transportation, logistics and distribution industry. Gap Inc. is a major part of this thriving sector and we thank them for continuing to invest in Tennessee and bringing more than 100 new jobs to Sumner County."
Gap Inc. is one of the largest employers in Sumner County, operating more than 2.8 million square feet of distribution space among its three warehouses in Gallatin. The Sumner County campus is one of Gap Inc.'s largest distribution centers. Increased online sales demand is driving Gap Inc.'s latest expansion in Gallatin. The new hires are needed to expand online fulfillment capabilities for e-commerce sales on Gap Inc.'s brand websites.
"For nearly 20 years, Gap Inc.'s Gallatin Distribution Center has served as a proud employer of Tennesseans," Gap Inc. VP of Logistics Kevin Kuntz said. "As a premier logistics provider, we continue to find innovative ways that enable us to dynamically, quickly and reliably deliver product to both retail stores and online customers. With the expansion of our presence in Gallatin, we look forward to providing opportunities for members of our valued community."
Headquartered in San Francisco, Gap Inc.'s clothing and accessory brands include Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Athleta, and Intermix. Gap Inc. operates about 3,300 company-operated stores across the globe.
"We are very excited about the expansion of the Gap Inc. facility and their projected employment growth," Gallatin Mayor Paige Brown said. "Gap Inc.'s announcement reflects their value on innovation, and I look forward to the company's continued success."
Gallatin and Sumner County are represented in the Tennessee General Assembly by Sen. Ferrell Haile (R -- Gallatin), Rep. William Lamberth (R -- Cottontown), Rep. Courtney Rogers (R -- Goodlettsville) and Rep. Terri Lynn Weaver (R -- Lancaster).

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/43888
