Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Schneider Electric USA, Inc. to Locate New Regional Office in Franklin
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 13, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Schneider Electric USA, Inc. officials announced today the company will locate a major Southeast regional office to Franklin where it will serve its national customers.
Schneider Electric will consolidate its existing Middle Tennessee operations in Davidson and Rutherford counties to Williamson County. The consolidation will relocate approximately 900 current employees and create 250 new jobs.
Schneider Electric is a global company that specializes in energy management and automation by developing connected technologies and solutions to manage energy and process in ways that are safe, reliable, efficient and sustainable.
"We thank Schneider Electric for choosing Franklin for its regional office and creating 250 new jobs in Tennessee," Haslam said. "Many companies have selected Tennessee as a base for their operations, and we are proud they call our state home. Today's announcement is great news not only for Williamson County, but for the entire state as it supports our goal to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"Over 24,000 jobs have been created from business services projects in Tennessee," Boyd said. "When companies are deciding whether to locate or grow in our state, Tennessee offers the resources and workforce to support their needs. We are fortunate that Schneider will not only create 250 new jobs, but also retain existing jobs to total more than 1,100 jobs. On behalf of Team Tennessee, we thank Schneider Electric for its continued investment and commitment to the state."
"The state of Tennessee has long been a hub of innovation for Schneider Electric, and we are happy to maintain our strong commitment to the communities where we live and work," said Annette Clayton, CEO and president of Schneider Electric North America. "Our new facility in Franklin will be our largest office in the country, creating an environment that encourages collaboration with customers and employees. The facility will be designed with the Schneider Electric vision of workplace collaboration and energy efficiency and will create a center of leadership and excellence."
Schneider Electric's regional office will be located at Two Franklin Park in a newly constructed 150,000 square foot space, which is slated to be complete by the fourth quarter of 2017. The workforce will be comprised of engineering, sales, R&D and corporate functions for several national and global business units.
"We are excited that this international company has chosen to locate their regional office in Williamson County. With the potential of 1,100 new jobs for our county, there will be more quality job opportunities for our residents," Williamson County Mayor Rogers Anderson said. "In business since 1836, Schneider Electric rose from 25th in 2015 to 10th place in the Newsweek Global Green Ranking for 2016 and we are proud to have global energy innovation specialist in our community."
"Schneider Electric will be a great addition to the many corporations who choose our beautiful city," Franklin Mayor Dr. Ken Moore said. "We are honored they selected Franklin and are excited about the many jobs they will bring to our area."
"Serving the people of the Valley by attracting and retaining companies with quality jobs in our region is fundamental to TVA's mission," TVA Senior Vice President John Bradley said. "TVA and Middle Tennessee EMC congratulate Schneider Electric on its new regional headquarters. We are proud to partner with Williamson, Inc., the city of Franklin, Williamson County and the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development to help foster new job growth in the Valley."
Franklin and Williamson County are represented by Sen. Jack Johnson (R -- Franklin), Rep. Charles Sargent (R -- Franklin), Rep. Glen Casada (R -- Franklin) and Rep. Jeremy Durham (R -- Franklin) in the Tennessee General Assembly..

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/43870
