Public Statements
Haslam Reappoints Mark Gwyn as Director of TBI
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: July 11, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam today announced the reappointment of Mark Gwyn as director of the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation (TBI).
Gwyn, 53, has led Tennessee's lead investigative law enforcement agency for 12 years. Under his leadership, the TBI has expanded its resources and embraced technology to enhance the agency's investigating strengths. Gwyn oversaw the creation of a Technical Services Unit that is responsible for high-tech surveillance methods, computer forensics, and investigating internet crimes against children; helped establish the nationally recognized Tennessee Fusion Center which services as a central hub of information sharing between local, state, and federal law enforcement partners; and spearheaded the state's efforts to combat human trafficking, including the creation of a special unit to investigate cases and train law enforcement officers across the state.
"Mark has dedicated his career to making Tennessee safer and his ambitious efforts have helped the TBI become a proactive law enforcement agency. As part of the Public Safety Subcabinet, Mark has helped lead the fight against some of the most serious crimes in our state, including human trafficking, meth production and gang violence and will continue those efforts to further protect our communities," Haslam said.
Prior to his initial appointment as TBI director in 2004, Gwyn led the agency's Forensic Services Division and served as its Executive Officer. He joined the TBI as an agent in 1988. Gwyn previously served as a patrol officer for the McMinnville Police Department.
"I am both humbled and honored to continue leading the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation and appreciate Governor Haslam's confidence in my ability to advance our agency's mission. I'll continue to do everything possible to work with his administration and the men and women of our local, state, and federal law enforcement partners to fight crime and improve public safety in Tennessee," Gwyn said.
Gwyn is a graduate of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) Law Enforcement Executive Development Seminar and the FBI National Academy. He has completed law enforcement and leadership training at the FBI's National Executive Institute, Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, and the FBI's Leadership in Counter-Terrorism Program. Gwyn received extensive terrorism training conducted in Israel by the Israeli National Police while attending the Georgia International Law Enforcement Exchange and in 2015 graduated from the inaugural Tennessee Law Enforcement Command College. He serves as the president of the Board of Directors of the Association of State Criminal Investigative Agencies and sits on the boards of several law enforcement-related organizations.
A native of McMinnville, Gwyn earned a bachelor's degree from Middle Tennessee State University and in 2010 received the Distinguished Alumni Award for professional achievement from MTSU.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/43752
