Public Statements
Haslam Signs FOCUS Act Centered on Student and College Success
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: June 8, 2016
Location: Cookeville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam today signed the Focus On College and University Success (FOCUS) Act at a ceremony on the campus of Tennessee Technological University. The legislation organizes and empowers Tennessee's public colleges and universities to increase student success and the number of Tennesseans with a postsecondary credential.
"Tennessee Promise and Tennessee Reconnect have been successful in increasing access to higher education, but we also must ensure our colleges and universities are supported in their efforts to create student success. The FOCUS Act is the next step in helping us reach the Drive to 55 goal," Haslam said, noting that as a result of Tennessee Promise and Tennessee Reconnect, first-time freshmen enrollment has increased 25 percent at community colleges and 20 percent at Tennessee Colleges of Applied Technology (TCATs).
The governor was joined for the bill signing by Dr. Philip Oldham, president of Tennessee Tech, and Rep. Ryan Williams (R-Cookeville), the bill's House sponsor.
The FOCUS Act, SB2569/HB2578, provides more focused support by the Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) for Tennessee's 13 community and 27 technical colleges; creates local boards for the six public universities currently within TBR (Austin Peay State University, East Tennessee State University, Middle Tennessee State University, Tennessee State University, Tennessee Technological University and the University of Memphis); and strengthens the Tennessee Higher Education Commission.
When TBR was formed in 1972, it had 60,000 students. Today Tennessee is approaching 200,000 students in the system.
The governor will make the university board appointments later this year and, upon confirmation by the General Assembly, board members will undergo orientation and professional development. Boards assume responsibility upon the first called meeting by the governor.

Source:
