Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Digital Reasoning to Expand Headquarters in Williamson County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 18, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Digital Reasoning officials announced today the company will expand its current headquarters facility in Franklin. As part of its continued expansion, the cognitive computing company will invest approximately $861,500 and create 189 jobs in Williamson County.
"We thank Digital Reasoning for choosing to expand in Tennessee and for creating over 180 new jobs in Williamson County," Haslam said. "Our focus is to not only have a business climate that helps bring in new business to our state, but also to have businesses grow and excel here. We congratulate Digital Reasoning on today's announcement which brings us closer toward our goal of making Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"There are over 85,000 Tennesseans that work in the business service sector, and it is always great news when an innovative company like Digital Reasoning chooses to create new jobs for this sector and the state of Tennessee," Boyd said. "I want to thank Digital Reasoning for strengthening Team Tennessee and for choosing to expand in Franklin and Williamson County, and I look forward to seeing the company continue to succeed in our state."
Digital Reasoning is an emerging leader in cognitive computing and artificial intelligence software offering it to government agencies, financial institutions and healthcare. Digital Reasoning's product Synthesys ®, allows these global organizations to listen to how humans communicate, learn from context and content within their data and prevent critical risks and reveal key insights to protect people and increase their effectiveness serving clients.
"We are proud of our new home here in Franklin, which provides a way forward for our continued growth and expansion," CEO of Digital Reasoning Tim Estes said. "We greatly appreciate the help we received from the community, especially from the teams at the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development and Honour, Inc., and are thrilled to be co-located with a superb company like Healthways whose culture is consistent with our own values. We hope to continue to be part of the great story of Tennessee emerging as a new global technology hub -- particularly in the area of health information technology."
Digital Reasoning will be significantly expanding its current headquarters facility in Franklin. With this expansion, the company will be moving into a larger, 50,000 square foot, facility in Williamson County. Digital Reasoning chose to expand in Franklin because of the excellent quality of life it provides for its workforce, accelerating market demand and very hospitable business climate.
Local leaders and partners expressed gratitude to Digital Reasoning for choosing to expand in Franklin.
"With an exploding technology presence in Williamson County, we are thrilled with the continued growth of Digital Reasoning," Elizabeth McCreary, vice president of economic development for Williamson, Inc., said. "We were happy to play a critical role in helping them find their new space and look forward to continuing our partnership with such a dynamic and revolutionary company."
"TVA and Middle Tennessee EMC congratulate Digital Reasoning on its decision to expand and create additional job opportunities in Williamson County," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are privileged to work with our partners at Williamson Inc., Williamson County and city of Franklin, and Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development to facilitate the growth of existing companies."
Franklin and Williamson County are represented by Sen. Jack Johnson (R - Franklin), Rep. Glen Casada (R - Franklin), Rep. Jeremy Durham (R - Franklin) and Rep. Charles Sargent (R - Franklin) in the Tennessee General Assembly.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. To grow and strengthen Team Tennessee, the department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Tennessee is the only three-time winner of "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @TNECD. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/TNECD.
- See more at: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/42409#sthash.ZlJNH8g9.dpuf

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/42409
