Public Statements
Haslam Announces Departure of Bill Gibbons
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 11, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam today announced Department of Safety and Homeland Security Commissioner Bill Gibbons will leave the administration at the end of the summer.
Gibbons has led the department since the start of the administration in 2011 and has also served as the chair of the Governor's Public Safety Subcabinet. Under Gibbons' leadership using a data-driven approach, traffic fatalities in Tennessee have decreased -- five of the six lowest years in the last 50 years have happened under this administration. He also directed improvements to the driver services division, including the addition of new technology, that have resulted in the average wait time dropping from 35 minutes in 2011 to less than 20 minutes and better customer service for Tennessee taxpayers.
"Bill's passion for public safety has been an incredible asset to our administration and to our state. He has been instrumental in creating and carrying out a coordinated public safety action plan that helped make Tennessee safer, and I am grateful for his service to Tennessee," Haslam said.
As chair of the Governor's Public Safety Subcabinet, Gibbons led the group of 11 commissioners and agency directors, developing an action plan that resulted in reduced methamphetamine production, an increase in the number of drug treatment court participants, tougher sentences for repeat domestic violence offenders, and more family justice centers across the state. Gibbons also co-chaired the Governor's Task Force on Sentencing and Recidivism, reviewing the state's sentencing structure and helping shape the Public Safety Act of 2016.
"I am thankful to Gov. Haslam for giving me the opportunity to serve as commissioner and as chair of his public safety subcabinet. It has truly been a special opportunity to make a tangible difference in state government and the lives of many of our citizens." Gibbons said.
Gibbons joined the administration after serving 15 years as Shelby County District Attorney General. Prior to that he was a partner in the Memphis law firm of Evans & Petree and served as a member of both the Memphis City Council and the Shelby County Commission. Gibbons first started his state government career in 1979 as a special policy assistant for former Gov. Lamar Alexander.
Gibbons' last day as commissioner is August 31.

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/42218
