Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce TeamHealth to Expand Headquarters in Knox County
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 9, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with TeamHealth officials announced today the company will expand its current headquarters in Knoxville. The healthcare solutions company will invest $6.7 million to construct additional space adjacent to its current headquarters location in Knoxville. This expansion comes as a result of anticipated growth over the next three to five years.
"It always means a great deal when a company like TeamHealth, with a great history in our state, chooses to continue growing here," Haslam said. "We want to thank TeamHealth for continuing to invest in our state and creating approximately 250 new jobs in Knox County over the next three to five years. Today's announcement is great news for our East Tennessee communities and brings us another step closer toward our goal to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"More than 341,500 Tennesseans are employed in the healthcare and medical device industry, and we are grateful that TeamHealth is growing this sector and positioning the organization for future growth in Tennessee," Boyd said. "This is the second announcement in two years for TeamHealth in Tennessee, and I want to thank them for choosing to expand in Knoxville and for further strengthening Team Tennessee."
TeamHealth is one of the largest physician services companies, providing staffing services for hospitals in the U.S. for multiple service lines, including anesthesia, emergency medicine and hospital medicine. The company is committed to a patient-centric model of healthcare delivery in partnership with hospitals and physician groups.
"In order to continue providing best-in-class service and support to our clinician community across the nation, we are expanding our home office in Knoxville," President and CEO of TeamHealth Michael D. Snow said. "The building adjacent to our existing home office will house our growing nonclinical team members that serve our more than 18,000 clinicians that provide care in approximately 3,400 acute and post-acute facilities and physician groups across the country."
TeamHealth is growing exponentially and is expanding its Knoxville presence to keep up with this anticipated growth. The company is renovating a 62,000 square foot facility located adjacent to its current Knoxville headquarters. Renovations are set to be finalized in the third quarter of 2016.
Local leaders and partners expressed gratitude to TeamHealth for choosing to expand in Knoxville.
"TeamHealth is one of our region's largest employers, and their choice to expand their corporate headquarters in Knoxville is going to have a tremendous economic impact," Knoxville Mayor Madeline Rogero said. "The expected payroll will pump $13.75 million annually into our economy. Competition for economic development wins like this is fierce, and I am so grateful this Fortune 1000 company chose to continue their growth in Knoxville."
"As one of the nation's leading healthcare physician services companies, TeamHealth's corporate headquarters expansion right here in Knoxville gives all of us reason to be proud and grateful for their continued success and growth," Chairman of The Industrial Development Board of the City of Knoxville John Craig said. "Knoxville's Industrial Development Board is especially delighted to be able to help facilitate the on-going, local growth of a homegrown success like TeamHeath, which began in Knoxville in 1979."
"TVA and the local power companies congratulate TeamHealth on its latest announcement to expand and create new job opportunities in Knoxville," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are pleased to partner with Knoxville Area Chamber Partnership and the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development to support existing business and industry growth in the Valley."
TeamHealth will begin hiring management and office positions starting in December 2016 and will continue filling these positions over the next three to five years. To apply for these jobs, applicants can visit the TeamHealth website.
Knoxville and Knox County are represented by Sen. Randy McNally (R -- Oak Ridge), Sen. Becky Massey (R -- Knoxville), Sen. Richard Briggs (R -- Knoxville), Rep. Bill Dunn (R -- Knoxville), Rep. Harry Brooks (R -- Knoxville), Rep. Martin Daniel (R -- Knoxville), Rep. Roger Kane (R -- Knoxville), Rep. Eddie Smith (R -- Knoxville), Rep. Jason Zachary (R -- Knoxville) and Rep. Joe Armstrong (D -- Knoxville) in the Tennessee General Assembly.
About TeamHealth
At TeamHealth (NYSE: TMH), our purpose is to perfect our physicians' ability to practice medicine, every day, in everything we do. Through our more than 18,000 affiliated physicians and advanced practice clinicians, TeamHealth offers outsourced emergency medicine, hospital medicine, critical care, anesthesiology, orthopaedic hospitalist, acute care surgery, obstetrics and gynecology hospitalist, ambulatory care, post-acute care and medical call center solutions to approximately 3,400 acute and post-acute facilities and physician groups nationwide. Our philosophy is as simple as our goal is singular: we believe better experiences for physicians lead to better outcomes--for patients, hospital partners and physicians alike. Join our team; we value and empower clinicians. Partner with us; we deliver on our promises. Learn more at http://www.teamhealth.com.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. To grow and strengthen Team Tennessee, the department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Tennessee is the only three-time winner of "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @TNECD. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/TNECD.
- See more at: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/42167#sthash.l3LOwCCM.dpuf

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/42167
