Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Evergreen Packaging to Locate Global Headquarters in Memphis
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 6, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Evergreen Packaging officials announced today the company will locate its global headquarters in Memphis. The company will invest $915,000 and create 70 jobs in Shelby County.
"We welcome Evergreen Packaging to Memphis and thank them for creating 70 new jobs in Shelby County," Haslam said. "It is not taken lightly when a company chooses to locate its global headquarters in our state and we thank Evergreen for bringing us one step closer towards making Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"This is our third headquarters announcement statewide in three weeks and I am excited that Evergreen Packaging has decided to call Tennessee home," Boyd said. "Tennessee is known for its business friendly environment, which makes Tennessee and Memphis the perfect location for Evergreen Packaging. Thank you, Evergreen Packaging, and welcome to Team Tennessee."
Evergreen Packaging will combine with its sister companies Closure Systems International (CSI) and Graham Packaging Company (Graham) into one consolidated global headquarters in Memphis. Together, the three companies comprise 127 global manufacturing facilities in 36 countries, 14,000 employees and revenues of approximately $5.5B annually. In order to accommodate the headquarters consolidation in Memphis, the company plans on adding additional square footage to its current facility.
"Evergreen Packaging is appreciative of the support we have received from the state of Tennessee, Memphis Mayor Jim Strickland, Shelby County Mayor Mark Luttrell, Jr. and all of the state stakeholders," President and CEO of Evergreen Packaging John Rooney said. "Our leadership team has been impressed by the concerted effort to recruit and support this company throughout this entire process."
Evergreen is the leading manufacturer of fresh carton packaging for beverage products, primarily serving the juice and milk markets and also provides a variety of paper-based products for commercial printing. Closure Systems International is the leading manufacturer of packaging closures and fitments. Graham Packaging is a global leader in plastic bottles and packaging solutions.
"The business chose to be in Memphis, and that's something we should celebrate," Memphis Mayor Jim Strickland said. "I was glad to meet with Evergreen's corporate representatives during their decision-making, and we look forward to their growth in Memphis."
"There is great momentum in corporate headquarters choosing Memphis and we're excited to see Evergreen Packaging among those companies who recognize not only our business-friendly environment but that Memphis is a great place for families to live, work and play," Phil Trenary, President & CEO of Greater Memphis Chamber said. "This year alone, we have seen LEDIC Realty and Orgill choose the Memphis region, all bringing jobs and investment to our regional economy."
Memphis and Shelby County are represented by Sen. Mark Norris (R -- Collierville), Sen. Brian Kelsey (R -- Germantown), Sen. Reginald Tate (D -- Memphis), Sen. Lee Harris (D -- Memphis), Sen. Sara Kyle (D -- Memphis), Rep. Jim Coley (R -- Bartlett), Rep. Ron Lollar (R -- Bartlett), Rep. Steve McManus (R -- Cordova), Rep. Curry Todd (R -- Collierville), Rep. Mark White (R -- Memphis), Rep. Raumesh Akbari (D -- Memphis), Rep. Karen Camper (D -- Memphis), Rep. Barbara Cooper (D -- Memphis), Rep. John DeBerry (D -- Memphis), Rep. G.A. Hardaway (D -- Memphis), Rep. Larry Miller (D -- Memphis), Rep. Antonio Parkinson (D -- Memphis), Rep. Joe Towns (D -- Memphis) and Rep. Johnnie Turner (D -- Memphis) in the Tennessee General Assembly.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. To grow and strengthen Team Tennessee, the department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Tennessee is the only three-time winner of "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.
- See more at: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/42143#sthash.CcvXfljY.dpuf

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/42143
