Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Empyrean Benefit Solutions, Inc. to Locate New Customer Service Center in La Vergne
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Empyrean Benefit Solutions, Inc. officials announced today the company will locate a new customer service center in La Vergne. Empyrean will invest $2.9 million in the new operation, creating 120 jobs in Rutherford County.
"We appreciate Empyrean for choosing to invest in Tennessee and for the new jobs that will be created in Rutherford County," Haslam said. "It means a great deal when a company chooses to start new operations in our state, and we look forward to building a strong partnership with Empyrean in the years ahead as we strive to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
Empyrean is a benefits engagement technology and service company based in Houston, TX. The company created a client-adaptive technology platform to increase customer efficiency and reduce administrative costs. Empyrean is unique among leading benefit administration providers in assigning dedicated service teams to its clients, with all primary services staffed 100 percent in the United States. The dedicated service model, which provides continuity from day one of the client relationship throughout its lifetime, fosters a close and enduring partnership and builds deep understanding of each client's business objectives, plan design and operational processes.
"I want to welcome Empyrean to Team Tennessee and thank them for choosing to locate in Rutherford County," Boyd said. "More than 85,600 Tennesseans work at more than 2,600 locations in the business service sector, and we appreciate Empyrean for strengthening this sector by creating these valuable jobs for Rutherford County."
"Our La Vergne center allows us to achieve several goals," Empyrean's co-founder and CEO Richard Wolfe said. "The expansion allows Empyrean to provide services across multiple delivery centers and access talent to support demand for Empyrean's technology and capabilities to manage health and benefits programs and the compliance requirements associated with ACA (Affordable Care Act) for employers, brokers, consultants and carriers."
The La Vergne facility is Empyrean's secondary customer service center and will be used to serve new markets. Empyrean chose La Vergne as its location for this new facility because of its world class infrastructure and communications, strength in medicine and education and attractive culture and lifestyle.
Local leaders and partners expressed appreciation to Empyrean Benefits for choosing La Vergne for its new customer service center.
"We are pleased to welcome Empyrean Benefits Solutions to the City of La Vergne," La Vergne Mayor Dennis Waldron said. "We celebrate the creation of an additional 120 jobs and know that this company will be an asset to our community."
"It's no surprise that when deciding where to locate in Tennessee, the leaders of Empyrean Benefits Solutions chose Rutherford County," Destination Rutherford Chairman Bill Jones said. "We are thrilled to welcome this innovative company and congratulate them on their decision to add 120 jobs to our community."
"TVA and Middle Tennessee EMC congratulate Empyrean Benefit Solutions on its decision to locate in Rutherford County," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "Attracting quality jobs and investments in our region is a fundamental part of TVA's mission of service. We are proud to partner with the Rutherford County Chamber of Commerce, Rutherford County and the City of La Vergne to further that mission and help facilitate Empyrean Benefit Solutions' new location decision."
La Vergne and Rutherford County are represented by Sen. Bill Ketron (R -- Murfreesboro), Sen. Jim Tracy (R -- Shelbyville), Rep. Mike Sparks (R -- Smyrna), Rep. Dawn White (R -- Murfreesboro), Rep. Rick Womick (R -- Rockvale) and Rep. Bryan Terry (R -- Murfreesboro) in the Tennessee General Assembly.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. To grow and strengthen Team Tennessee, the department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Tennessee is the only three-time winner of "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.
- See more at: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/40468#sthash.EgDk8dXF.dpuf

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/40468
