Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce General Motors to Expand Spring Hill Operations
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: April 27, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with General Motors officials announced today the company will invest $788.7 million and create 781 new jobs for a new high-efficiency engine program and to modernize the vehicle programs at the company's Spring Hill manufacturing plant.
The announcement brings GM's total investment in the Spring Hill plant in 2016 up to more than $936 million including an expansion announced in February. The company has announced investments of over $2 billion for Spring Hill since 2010.
"We want to congratulate GM on another important investment in Spring Hill and its workforce," Haslam said. "Tennessee has an incredibly strong business climate, and we continue to attract investment from companies that can choose to do business anywhere in the world. It is important to see long-time partners like GM continue to invest in Tennessee and create high-quality jobs here."
"Tennessee has been recognized repeatedly as the strongest state in the automotive industry with over 900 automotive related companies," Boyd said. "I want to thank GM for creating jobs that will have a lasting impact on Tennessee families."
"This investment will position GM and its workforce as continued leaders in powertrain manufacturing," said Arvin Jones, GM North America Manufacturing Manager. "Today's announcement reinforces our absolute faith in this facility, and our strong commitment to this community and the state of Tennessee."
The Spring Hill site is a flexible vehicle assembly plant currently producing the Cadillac XT5 and the GMC Acadia, as well 4-cylinder engines and stampings used in several GM vehicles.
Other local and state economic development officials also lauded the Spring Hill expansion, thanking the company for their partnership.
"It is always important when an existing industry expands. But, it is extra exciting when a world-class company like GM makes such a significant reinvestment in your community. It is a testament to the great workforce and business climate found in Maury County. We are grateful to GM for their vote of confidence, thankful for the great jobs being created in the community, and excited to work with GM towards their continued success in Maury County," Maury County Mayor Charlie Norman said.
"We are both thankful and excited to witness the continued success of General Motors with this wonderful announcement," City of Spring Hill Mayor Rick Graham said. "GM has always played a critical role in the growth of our community and today's announcement is further proof that Spring Hill is truly rising."
"TVA understands the importance of reliable, affordable electricity to General Motors and the entire automotive industry. We are proud to be a partner in this announcement, which will lead to more jobs and investment in the region's economy," TVA President and CEO Bill Johnson said.
Maury County and Williamson County are represented by Sen. Joey Hensley (R - Hohenwald), Sen. Jack Johnson (R - Franklin), Rep. Sheila Butt (R - Columbia), Rep. Glen Casada (R - Franklin), Rep. Jeremy Durham (R - Franklin), Rep. Charles Sargent (R - Franklin) and Rep. David Shepard (D - Dickson) in the Tennessee General Assembly.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. To grow and strengthen Team Tennessee, the department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Tennessee is the only three-time winner of "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @TNECD. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/TNECD.
- See more at: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/39904#sthash.MP6mSQVL.dpuf

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/39904
