Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce CKE Restaurants, Inc. to Move Corporate Headquarters to Franklin
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: April 27, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with CKE Restaurants Holdings, Inc. ("CKE") today announced the company will relocate its corporate headquarters from Carpinteria, Calif. to Franklin, Tenn.
CKE, parent to the Carl's Jr.® and Hardee's® sister chains, will invest $5 million in the new headquarters and create over 100 jobs in Williamson County.
"We appreciate CKE for choosing Tennessee as home to its corporate headquarters and creating more than 100 new jobs in Franklin," Haslam said. "In Tennessee, we provide a business-friendly environment that promotes growth and success for both new and existing businesses. We welcome CKE and thank the company for bringing us one step closer toward our goal to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
"With the best balance sheet in the nation, Tennessee proves yet again to be a state that can back up its promises," Boyd said. "This is our second headquarter announcement in two weeks, and we are fortunate to soon have CKE call our state home. Thanks, CKE, for choosing Franklin, and welcome to Team Tennessee."
Earlier this month, Hankook Tire America Corp announced plans to locate its North American headquarters in Nashville, representing an investment of approximately $5 million and the creation of 200 new jobs.
Carpinteria-based CKE Restaurants, which also owns St. Louis-based Hardee's, is consolidating both offices in Tennessee, where it has several company-owned restaurants. The new headquarters will be located at 6700 Tower Circle in Franklin. As part of the newly developed business park, CKE will occupy 47,030 rentable square feet across 1.5 floors. CKE's Anaheim, Calif. corporate office will remain fully operational.
"We are pleased to bring CKE's headquarters to Tennessee, a state that understands business and provides companies like ours with an environment that facilitates success," Andy Puzder, chief executive officer of CKE Restaurants, said. "We look forward to calling the city of Franklin our base of operations as we continue to meaningfully forge ahead with some very exciting new developments in the foreseeable future."
Federal and local officials welcomed CKE to Williamson County, citing the impact the company will have on the area's business landscape as well as its workforce.
"Because of our positive business climate of low taxation and light touch regulation, Tennessee is a top choice for corporate relocations," U.S. Congressman Marsha Blackburn said. "We are fortunate to welcome CKE to Tennessee and are confident the company will thrive in its new home. In Williamson County, CKE will not only find talented and motivated employees, it will find great neighbors."
"We are thrilled CKE Restaurants has decided to relocate their corporate headquarters to Williamson County," Williamson County Mayor Rogers Anderson said. "I welcome the employees of CKE and their families to our community, and I look forward to a strong partnership with one of America's most iconic brands. With over 200 companies that call Williamson County home, our community has become the premiere location for headquarters over the last decade. CKE Restaurants will now enjoy the same amenities that draw talent to Williamson County, including our great school systems, our low crime rate, our corporate housing options, our public parks and recreation areas, and countless other benefits that make this the fastest county for job growth in America."
"TVA and Middle Tennessee EMC congratulate CKE Foods on its decision to locate in Franklin, Tennessee," TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley said. "We are proud to partner with Williamson County, city of Franklin, Williamson Inc. and Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development to help further TVA's mission of service and facilitate new job opportunities in the Valley."
Franklin and Williamson County are represented by Sen. Jack Johnson (R - Franklin), Rep. Glen Casada (R - Franklin), Rep. Jeremy Durham (R - Franklin) and Rep. Charles Sargent (R - Franklin) in the Tennessee General Assembly.
About CKE Restaurants Holdings, Inc.
CKE Restaurants Holdings, Inc. ("CKE") is a privately held company headquartered in Carpinteria, Calif. Through its subsidiaries, CKE owns and licenses Carl's Jr.® and Hardee's® quick-service restaurants. CKE operates Carl's Jr. and Hardee's as one brand under two names acknowledging the regional heritage of both banners. After opening its first restaurants in New York and New Jersey this spring and recent international openings in Canada, Colombia and Guatemala, CKE now has a total of 3,678 franchised or company-operated restaurants in 44 states and 38 foreign countries and U.S. territories. Known for its one-of-a-kind premium menu items such as 100 percent Black Angus Thickburgers®, Made from Scratch™ Biscuits, Hand-Breaded Chicken Tenders™ and Fresh Baked Buns, as well as an award-winning marketing approach, the Carl's Jr./Hardee's brand continues to deliver substantial and consistent growth in the U.S. and overseas. The Carl's Jr./Hardee's system is now 92 percent franchised, with international restaurants representing 19 percent of the system. For more information about CKE, please visit www.ckr.com or its brand sites at www.carlsjr.com and www.hardees.com.
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. To grow and strengthen Team Tennessee, the department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth. Tennessee is the only three-time winner of "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.
- See more at: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/39900#sthash.jEZrt5pR.dpuf

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/39900
