Public Statements
Governor's Academy for School Leadership Begins This Week
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Feb. 18, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

This week 24 aspiring principals from across the state will begin participating in the inaugural Governor's Academy for School Leadership (GASL). First announced by Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam in late 2013, GASL is a partnership between the state of Tennessee, Vanderbilt University's Peabody College, and local school districts to build a pipeline of highly-trained school principals and ultimately improve school effectiveness and performance and unlock educational opportunities for all students.
"Successful organizations have great leaders at the top, so one of the most important things we can do to transform our schools is to have each one led by a great principal. Tennessee already has a lot of great principals, and we want even more," Haslam said. "I appreciate these school leaders -- both the assistant principals participating and the principals serving as mentors -- making this commitment to their communities and our state and Vanderbilt for partnering with us to create this pipeline of great school leadership in Tennessee." Each assistant principal selected for the one-year fellowship has been paired with an experienced principal mentor.
In addition to training sessions one weekend a month and a week-long summer institute at Vanderbilt, participants will intern three days a month at his/her mentor's school and receive six individual coaching sessions with a trained regional coach. Upon completion of the academy, participants will be expected to pursue placement as a school principal in their district or region. Participants were nominated by their district's director of schools and selected through an application and interview process conducted by representatives from the Governor's Office, the Tennessee Department of Education (TDOE) and Vanderbilt University.
"Strong school administration plays an integral role in student success, and it is our honor to further develop the leadership of these dedicated individuals," TDOE Commissioner Candice McQueen said. "Both the fellows and their mentors represent excellence in their profession, and we are proud to provide a pathway so they can continue serving the districts and students in our state." "Peabody College is committed to developing effective leaders for Tennessee schools and the students they serve," said Camilla Benbow, the Patricia and Rodes Hart Dean of Education and Human Development at Vanderbilt's Peabody College. "We are excited to work with Governor Haslam and the Department of Education to offer our expertise and experience to further strengthen education across the state."
- See more at: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/37650#sthash.caaRl1z5.dpuf

Source: http://www.tn.gov/governor/news/37650
