Public Statements
Governor Haslam, Commissioner Boyd Announce Toledo Molding & Die, Inc. to Build New Manufacturing Facility in Fayetteville
Press Release
By: Bill Haslam
Date: Jan. 20, 2016
Location: Nashville, TN

Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam and Economic and Community Development Commissioner Randy Boyd along with Toledo Molding & Die, Inc. (TMD) officials announced today the company will build a new manufacturing facility in Fayetteville.
TMD, a global, full service supplier of interior and air and fluid management systems for the automotive industry, will invest $20 million and create 250 new jobs. The announcement marks the second commitment made by a company in less than 10 days in Fayetteville.
Last week, metal substrate manufacturer Nippon Steel and Sumikin Materials USA, Inc. announced it will invest $5.7 million and create 65 new jobs. "We thank TMD for choosing Lincoln County as the location of its newest manufacturing operations and creating 250 new jobs in Fayetteville," Haslam said.
"Tennessee's rural communities are the heart of our state in so many ways, and we're building on our work to create a measured, thoughtful approach to supporting economic development in our rural areas.
We appreciate TMD for providing new opportunities for so many hardworking Tennesseans and bringing us one step closer toward our goal to make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs."
Headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, the Fayetteville facility will be the company's fourth location outside of its home state. TMD will build a new 126,000 square foot manufacturing facility in the Fayetteville-Lincoln County Industrial Park -- Lot 4, a Select Tennessee Certified Site.
Construction is slated to begin in the next four weeks and the facility is expected to be operational by the fourth quarter of this year. "Our Select Tennessee Certified Sites are one of our greatest assets, and as a result of Fayetteville-Lincoln County investing in itself to secure its certification, TMD will be the first company to locate on the site," Boyd said. "I want to thank our community partners and TVA, and especially TMD for choosing to invest and create new jobs in our state. We welcome you to Team Tennessee and look forward to building a lasting partnership in the years ahead."
"TMD is excited to be partnered with the great state of Tennessee and the outstanding people of Fayetteville-Lincoln County as we embark on this very important expansion of our business," TMD President and CEO Steve Ciucci said. "We selected Tennessee because of its proximity to our customers, the availability and quality of the workforce, the high quality of life Tennessee offers our employees and the pro-business environment in the state. We couldn't be happier with the warm reception and the outstanding support we have received from the state's economic development team, the Fayetteville Industrial Development Board and TVA.
We look forward to a successful start-up and a long and mutually beneficial relationship with the state of Tennessee and the community of Fayetteville-Lincoln County." TMD's product lines include molding, assembly and sequencing of instrument panels, consoles and door modules and molding and assembly of a variety of air induction, powertrain cooling, front end module, washer, HVAC and underhood components and systems.
Local leaders and partners applauded TMD's decision to locate its newest manufacturing operation in Fayetteville, citing the impact it will have on the community and its workforce. "The commitment from TMD to build a new manufacturing facility in the Fayetteville-Lincoln County Industrial Park is a tribute to the teamwork of our community, state, TVA and our local utilities' ability to work toward our common goal of creating local jobs," Fayetteville Mayor Jon Law said. "The IDB's executive director has worked to bring together all the necessary components of a project of this magnitude and importance."
"The announcement that TMD has chosen to locate its plant in Lincoln County is very exciting and welcoming news for our community," Lincoln County Mayor Bill Newman said. "The addition of TMD to our community will certainly help maintain our economic stability and help to enhance our citizens' quality of life. We look forward to a long and rewarding business and civic partnership with TMD." "The Fayetteville-Lincoln County Industrial Development Board, our executive director, Elaine Middleton, and I are extremely pleased that TMD has agreed to locate its new manufacturing facility in Fayetteville-Lincoln County," Fayetteville-Lincoln County Industrial Development Board Chairman Ron Mahal said. "It will be a great addition to our industrial community, and we certainly look forward to a long and rewarding relationship with TMD."
"TVA and Fayetteville Public Utilities congratulate TMD on its decision to locate in Lincoln County, Tennessee and create new job opportunities," said TVA Senior Vice President of Economic Development John Bradley. "Attracting quality jobs and investment to our region is fundamental to TVA's mission of service.
We are proud to partner with Fayetteville-Lincoln County Industrial Development Board and Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development to further our mission and welcome TMD to the region." TMD will begin hiring late summer and will provide employment information at a later date.
Fayetteville and Lincoln County are represented by Sen. Jim Tracy (R -- Shelbyville), Rep. Pat Marsh (R -- Shelbyville) and Rep. Billy Spivey (R -- Lewisburg) in the Tennessee General Assembly. About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development The Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development's mission is to develop strategies which help make Tennessee the No. 1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs. To grow and strengthen Team Tennessee, the department seeks to attract new corporate investment in Tennessee and works with Tennessee companies to facilitate expansion and economic growth.
Tennessee is the only three-time winner of "State of the Year" for economic development by Business Facilities magazine. Find us on the web: tnecd.com. Follow us on Twitter: @tnecd. Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/tnecd.
- See more at: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/23549#sthash.nfgkTlVn.dpuf

Source: http://www.tn.gov/ecd/news/23549
