Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Announces 2016 Nebraska Developing Youth Talent Initiative Grant Awards
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: June 27, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts announced MetalQuest of Hebron and Distefano Technology & Mfg. (Distefano) of Omaha as the 2016 grant recipients for the Nebraska Developing Youth Talent Initiative (DYTI), a program that connects young Nebraskans to careers in the manufacturing and technology sectors. DYTI was proposed by the Governor in January 2015 and approved by the Legislature to foster partnerships between private industry and public schools that promote engagement in hands-on career exploration and relevant workplace learning for students in 7th and 8th grades.
"Congratulations to MetalQuest and Distefano on receiving the 2016 grants to support their efforts to expose young Nebraskans to careers in manufacturing and IT," said Governor Ricketts. "Public-private partnerships like these are setting the bar when it comes to working with their communities and schools to connect youth with career paths with good-paying jobs. These efforts are helping build the 21st-century workforce Nebraska's industries and companies need to remain competitive in a global economy."
At a press conference today, Governor Ricketts congratulated MetalQuest and Distefano on applications that demonstrated strong collaboration with area schools in creating plans to actively address workforce needs of industries in south central Nebraska and the greater Omaha metropolitan area. Industry needs identified and addressed in the applications included bulking up in skilled labor via creation of a manufacturing talent pipeline, focusing on future job growth with an emphasis on manufacturing, working closely with schools to offer curriculum tailored to industry needs, industry education outreach, and promotion, mentoring and financial support among others.
"As the state's second largest industry, we have an opportunity, not only to fill the workforce needs of our manufacturers, but to help them continue creating good-paying jobs and to connect them with quality, highly-skilled employees," said Nebraska Department of Economic Development (DED) Director Courtney Dentlinger. "This program is helping us increase awareness among our younger students about the many excellent careers that exist for them."
"MetalQuest is thrilled to be the recipient of a Nebraska Developing Youth Talent grant. We are fortunate to be a part of the Manufacturing Career Pathway Program at South Central Nebraska Unified School District," said Scott Volk, Vice President of MetalQuest. "This grant will have a direct impact, exposing area students in grades 6-12 to exciting and challenging manufacturing careers. Students will now be able to get real life experience through project-based learning strategies, building upon the career pathway concept currently in development. We are very excited to be a part of this program, and appreciate the assistance in helping develop the manufacturing talent so desperately needed."
"On behalf of Distefano Technology & Mfg., Dream it Do it, the Nebraska Advance Manufacturing Coalition, Omaha Public Schools, and a group of business leaders dedicated to creating awareness in manufacturing, I would like to thank the Governor for awarding us the Nebraska Developing Youth Talent Initiative grant," said Brian Turner, Vice President and General Manager of Distefano. "These funds will assist us in furthering the work of creating an awareness of careers in manufacturing for our youth. We are excited to get started."

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-announces-2016-nebraska-developing-youth-talent-initiative-grant-awards
