Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts, First-in-the-Nation Reemployment Program Honored with National Award
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: June 23, 2016
Location: Kansas City, MO

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts was honored by the National Foundation for Unemployment Compensation and Workers' Compensation (UWC) for his advocacy of Nebraska's first-in-the-nation reemployment program, which was launched in conjunction with the Nebraska Department of Labor (NDOL) last year. During a ceremony at the 35th Annual National Unemployment Insurance Conference in Kansas City, the UWC presented the Governor with the J. Eldred Hill, Jr. Award for excellence in the public policy arena in service to the employer community.
"I am honored to receive this award on behalf of the Department of Labor and the State of Nebraska," said Governor Ricketts. "I thank the Foundation for recognizing the success of Nebraska's unique, first-in-the-nation reemployment program. It's exciting to see the impact that this program is having on both job seekers and employers across Nebraska."
Last July, the Governor and NDOL announced the transformation of Nebraska's unemployment system into a reemployment program. The program is unique among state labor department programming nationally in that all jobseekers who receive unemployment benefits are required to enroll in an individualized reemployment plan to remain eligible for benefits unless they are only on temporary layoff from their regular employer.
Department of Labor staff help job seekers enrolled in the program identify goals and objectives and determine the appropriate combination of services for the participant to meet their employment goals. These plans are designed to help engage the individuals and provide them with a clear understanding of where they are going in terms of finding new employment.
"The Governor's support has been key in transforming the unemployment insurance program into a reemployment program," said Commissioner of Labor John H. Albin. "Since we launched our reemployment program, other states have taken an interest, and we look forward to continued opportunities to share our success stories with them."
The first-in-the-nation program leverages cutting edge software that requires jobseekers filing for unemployment to register for work and post a searchable resume in NEworks, the Nebraska employment services system, before they can file an unemployment claim. Employers can then search posted resumes for a particular skill inventory, find resumes of individuals with the right experience, and/or utilize a virtual recruiter tool and proactively reach out to potential applicants.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-first-nation-reemployment-program-honored-national-award
