Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts, DHHS Unveil Agency Business Plan and Priority Initiatives
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: June 20, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts and the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) CEO Courtney Phillips released the DHHS business plan, a first for the agency. The plan, "Real Improvements, Sustainable Progress, Better Lives for Nebraskans," details 25 priority initiatives that are guiding the work of DHHS in the coming year.
"Making state government more efficient and effective, being more customer focused, and reducing regulatory complexity are three of my top priorities," said Governor Ricketts. "DHHS touches the lives of countless Nebraskans every day as they serve some of our most vulnerable citizens. This business plan will result in improved services and better service from DHHS as they help Nebraskans live better lives."
The plan follows the lead of Governor Ricketts who has improved the performance of state government through strategic actions and measureable outcomes over the course of the first 18 months of his administration. DHHS in particular has been applauded by the public and its partners for the significant advancements it has made under new leadership. For example, call wait times at the agency's call center for public benefits have dropped from almost 24 minutes in August 2014 to less than five minutes in recent months. Additionally, the state's child welfare system exceeded all six federal standards in 2015. Three years ago HHS met only two standards. In the last month, the agency announced that its public health division achieved national accreditation through the Public Health Accreditation Board, a significant achievement only a small percentage of public health agencies have earned nationally.
"The DHHS team has stepped up and you can see that in our achievements during the past year," Phillips said. "Yet we know there is more to do. Through the initiatives in this business plan, Nebraskans will see an even greater commitment to better government, integrity, and fiscal responsibility as we continue to improve our responsiveness and service delivery. This plan projects that commitment and vision."
Phillips said Governor Ricketts assembled a dynamic team of directors at DHHS who are sharing their experience and insight to develop high-quality, efficient, and customer-friendly services, and who together with staff, are improving services for Nebraskans. She said it has been and will continue to be a full team effort.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-dhhs-unveil-agency-business-plan-and-priority-initiatives
