Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Tours New Geist Facility in Lincoln, Celebrates Trade Mission Success Story
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: June 13, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts toured a new $12.5 million Geist facility ahead of its official opening. Geist is an industry-leading, U.S.-headquartered technology company with facilities around the world. Over the past several years, the company's rapid growth led to the construction of the new 87,000 sq. ft. building in Lincoln, Nebraska, which will have its official ribbon cutting ceremony on Friday this week.
"This investment from Geist is a perfect example of how Nebraska can successfully compete in the global marketplace to grow our state," said Governor Ricketts. "Thank you to Geist for developing the relationship with Japanese technology distributor Meikyo Denki which led to this investment and high-skill job opportunities in Lincoln, and to all the partners who worked to make this a reality."
The Governor visited with the companies in September 2015 as part of his first trade mission to Japan and China. The Nebraska Center Japan, Nebraska Department of Economic Development (DED), and Gov. Ricketts all assisted with establishing the partnership, which helped Geist enter the Japanese market for the first time.
"The support of Nebraska's Department of Economic Development, Nebraska Center Japan, and Nebraska Governor Pete Ricketts was instrumental in the assistance with the partnership between Geist and Meikyo Denki," said Geist Asia Managing Director Jason Christie. "The partnership has allowed Geist to offer significant technical support, giving Japanese customers more confidence in the solution-based products."
Christie went on to say the partnership will ultimately help Geist bridge a language challenge with Japanese customers building their confidence in the company's solution-based products. Before making the decision to enter the market, Geist thoroughly researched the local Japanese market needs and pinpointed more exact solutions to fit the Japanese landscape. Nebraska Center Japan and DED staff are currently working with Meikyo Denki to address training, marketing, new product introduction, trade show representation, translation/interpretation, and cultural business needs among others.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-tours-new-geist-facility-lincoln-celebrates-trade-mission-success-story
