Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Urges Nebraskans to Drive Safely Over Memorial Day Holiday Weekend
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Omaha, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts joined Nebraska law enforcement and safety officials to urge Nebraskans to drive safely during the upcoming Memorial Day holiday weekend. At the news conference, the Governor highlighted three initiatives to help encourage Nebraskans to drive responsibly in the coming days.
"Susanne and I encourage all Nebraskans to travel safely and buckle up as they travel over the holiday weekend," said Governor Ricketts. "Nebraska has had 65 road fatalities so far this year. These initiatives will help remind drivers to buckle up and to never drink and drive. We encourage Nebraskans and other travelers to drive safely, so we can work towards our goal of zero driving-related fatalities."
NEBRASKA DEPARTMENT OF ROADS' FRIDAY SAFETY MESSAGES
To kick off the summer travel season, the Nebraska Department of Roads, in partnership with the Nebraska State Patrol, launched the "Friday Safety Message" campaign beginning the week of May 20, 2016. Throughout the summer months, a new safety message will be displayed each Friday for a 24-hour period, from 12:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m., on overhead Dynamic Message Signs (DMS) along Interstate 80, reminding motorists to use extra caution during periods of increased travel. Each "Friday Safety Message" will include an updated number of Nebraska traffic deaths and a reminder that coincides with major events that particular weekend.
NEBRASKA STATE PATROL'S CLICK IT OR TICKET CAMPAIGN
Monday, May 23, 2016 through Sunday, June 5, 2016, the Nebraska State Patrol, county sheriff offices, and local police departments are taking part in the annual "Click It or Ticket" seat belt and child restraint campaign. In addition to the Nebraska State Patrol, 23 police departments and 35 sheriff offices have been awarded special overtime enforcement federal highway safety grants totalling over $270,000 from the Nebraska Office of Highway Safety. These grants are intended for day and nighttime enforcement of all traffic laws with special emphasis on those not obeying Nebraska's occupant restraint laws.
AAA'S TOW TO GO PROGRAM
Tow to Go provides a safety net for those that don't plan ahead. Impaired drivers in Omaha and Lincoln can call for a ride anytime this Friday, May 27, 2016 through 6:00am on Tuesday, May 31, 2016. AAA will then transport the driver and their vehicle home or somewhere safe within 10 miles. Some restrictions will apply. Tow to Go Services include:
Confidential local ride within a 10-mile radius to a safe location
Service is provided in Omaha and Lincoln only
Free and available to AAA members and non-members
The AAA service vehicle transports the driver and their car
For Tow to Go service in Lincoln or Omaha call (855) 2-TOW-2-GO or (855) 286-9246.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-urges-nebraskans-drive-safely-over-memorial-day-holiday-weekend
