Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Highlights Benefits of Biofuels During Renewable Fuels Month
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: May 20, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts highlighted Renewable Fuels Month in Nebraska and the importance of biofuels to the state by kicking off a unique ethanol promotion at Sapp Brothers in Omaha. The Governor previously designated May as Renewable Fuels Month in Nebraska by signing a proclamation.
"With renewable fuels, we are not only adding value to the crops we grow, but also expanding America's domestic fuel supply while creating quality jobs all across our state," Governor Ricketts said. "Renewable fuels have a positive influence on our economic landscape in Nebraska. By filling up with biofuels, you support Nebraska's farm families and bring good-paying jobs to our state's rural communities."
Nebraska's economic prosperity is closely tied to agriculture, the state's number one industry. Nebraska ranks second nationally for ethanol production, which consumed 43 percent of the state's corn crop in 2014 according to the Nebraska Department of Agriculture.
Both American Ethanol and soy biodiesel are clean-burning, renewable fuels made from homegrown Nebraska commodities. These fuels and co-products greatly contribute to Nebraska's economic vitality and make an impact across the entire country. More than 1,500 people in rural Nebraska and more than 850,000 people nationwide are employed in the renewable fuels industry, according to a 2014 economic impact study released by Fuels America.
In addition to financial benefits, biodiesel and American Ethanol also provide many environmental and consumer benefits. According to the American Lung Association of the Upper Midwest, some 70 percent of harmful air pollution is attributable to mobile sources such as passenger vehicles, trucks, buses, and construction equipment. Biodiesel reduces hydrocarbon emissions by 67 percent. Similarly, American Ethanol is a non-toxic, clean-burning fuel that dramatically reduces the level of toxics added to gasoline, including proven and suspected carcinogens such as benzene, toluene, and xylene.
"When it comes to air quality, renewable biofuels such as American Ethanol and biodiesel burn cleaner and help make our air healthier," Governor Ricketts noted. "Renewable Fuels Month is a great way to bring awareness to the wide range of benefits biofuels provide. Nebraska-produced biofuels are cost-effective, American-made, renewable, and better for our environment."
At the event in recognition of Renewable Fuels Month, Nebraska's corn and soybean farmers announced they would give drivers in the Omaha metro cause to celebrate. Renewable biofuels will be offered at a steep discount from 4-7 p.m. on Thursday, May 19 at Sapp Bros. located at I-80 Exit 440 in Nebraska.
About the Nebraska Corn Board
The mission of the Nebraska Corn Board is to develop, carry out and participate in programs of research, education, market development and promotion to enhance profitability (viability) and expand the demand and value of Nebraska corn and value-added corn products.
About the Nebraska Ethanol Board
Established in 1971, the Ethanol Board assists ethanol producers with programs and strategies for marketing ethanol and related co-products. The Board supports organizations and policies that advocate the increased use of ethanol fuels -- and administers public information, education and ethanol research projects.
About the Nebraska Soybean Board
The nine-member Nebraska Soybean Board collects and disburses the Nebraska share of funds generated by the one half of one percent times the net sales price per bushel of soybeans sold. Nebraska soybean checkoff funds are invested in research, education, domestic and foreign markets, including new uses for soybeans and soybean products.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-highlights-benefits-biofuels-during-renewable-fuels-month
