Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts, Education Department Recognize 21 Nebraska High School Students for Top ACT and SAT Scores
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: May 12, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts and the Nebraska Department of Education recognized 21 Nebraska high school students for their academic achievement in earning top scores of 36 on the ACT or a 2400 on the SAT college admissions exam. Recognition ceremonies were held at Pius X High School in Lincoln and Creighton Preparatory High School in Omaha.
"Earning a top score on the ACT or SAT exam is a significant accomplishment that only comes through discipline, study, and hard work," said Governor Ricketts. "Students from Gering to Omaha achieved the highest level of academic excellence on these college entrance exams. Parents, teachers, and friends can be proud of their outstanding achievement. Wherever your college plans may take you, I hope you will continue to make Nebraska your home as you start your careers and raise a family."
The Governor was joined by Nebraska's Commissioner of Education Matt Blomstedt at the Omaha event and the Deputy Commissioner of Education Deborah Frison at the Lincoln ceremony honoring Nebraska's graduating seniors earning the highest possible composite scores on the exams. Students were presented with certificates signed by the Governor and Education Commissioner recognizing their "achievement in academic excellence."
"Congratulations to the 21 Nebraska students who achieved the top score on their ACT or SAT this year," said Education Commissioner Matt Blomstedt. "Their test scores represent an outstanding level of achievement and academic excellence. Their parents and teachers are proud of their work, and their commitment to academic excellence is an inspiration to other students."
"As a former high school principal, I know the pride Nebraska teachers and administrators feel when their students reach the pinnacle of academic success," said Deputy Education Commissioner Deborah Frison. "I applaud each of you and your dedication to academic excellence as well as your parents and teachers who supported you over the years."
Graduating top scoring ACT students include:
Claire Davis, Marian High School, Omaha
Dylan Finley, Millard North High School, Omaha
Rebecca Fitzgarrald, Millard North High School, Omaha
Benjamin Giebelhausen, Bennington Junior Senior High School, Bennington
Shane Grode, Creighton Preparatory School, Omaha
Hanna Hoffman, Lincoln High School, Lincoln
Liam Kruse, Pius X High School, Lincoln
Nathan Lachner, Papillion-La Vista South High School, Papillion
Bridget Mizener, Westside High School, Omaha
Grant Moles, Johnson County Central High School, Tecumseh
Don Nguyen, Creighton Preparatory School, Omaha
Collin Potts, Gering High School, Gering
Aaron Salzman, Creighton Preparatory School, Omaha
Christian Schleif, Osceola Junior Senior High School, Osceola
Nathan Singh, Creighton Preparatory School, Omaha
Michael Svolos, Central High School, Omaha
Independence Talken, Pius X High School, Lincoln
Raymond Thai, Millard North High School, Omaha
Lauren Vana, Elkhorn South High School, Elkhorn
Edward Yuan, Millard South High School, Omaha
One student, Julia Fiksinski of Brownell-Talbot School in Omaha achieved a perfect score on the SAT.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-education-department-recognize-21-nebraska-high-school-students-top-act-and-sat
