Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts, Ag Industry Groups Highlight Importance of U.S.-Mexico Trade Relationship
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: May 16, 2017
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Nebraska Governor Pete Ricketts and national and state grain industry leaders told Mexican officials that the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) has been a boon for America's farmers and ranchers and that the US must maintain a strong partnership with Mexico.
"Bilateral trade with Mexico has helped grow agriculture in our state over the years," said Governor Ricketts. "Mexico is Nebraska's largest export market for corn, dairy, sugar and sweeteners, and second largest market for soybeans, wheat, sorghum and distillers grains. All of this combined accounts for thousands of Nebraska jobs. I'm encouraged by local and national discussions to expand trade, and am committed to helping grow our trade relationship with Mexico so we can continue to grow Nebraska."
The Nebraska Corn Board, the U.S. Grains Council, and the National Corn Growers Association are hosting a team of Mexican grain and industry officials in Nebraska for a town hall and industry meetings, ahead of the Trump Administration's plans to renegotiate NAFTA, a 20-year-old trade agreement between the U.S., Mexico, and Canada. Later this week, the Mexican delegation will travel to Washington, D.C., where they will join U.S. corn farmers for meetings with Congressional leaders to discuss the U.S.-Mexico trade relationship.
"Nebraska agriculture is at its best when we all work together, which includes our trading partners," said Kelly Brunkhorst, executive director of the Nebraska Corn Board. "Mexico is currently Nebraska's largest export market for corn, which provides $287 million in added value to our state's economy. I'm looking forward to the positive dialogue over these next few days as we look for ways to maintain and even strengthen our relationship with this key partner."
Approximately 20 percent of U.S. corn and corn co-products are exported. Mexico is the largest market for U.S. corn. In 2016, U.S. corn exports to Mexico totaled 13.3 million metric tons (523.5 million bushels) of corn, valued at $2.5 billion. The U.S. also exported 1.9 million metric tons of distiller's dried grains with solubles (DDGS), a byproduct of ethanol.

Source:
