Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Celebrates Norland International Business Expansion
Statement
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: March 28, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts joined the Nebraska Department of Economic Development (DED) to celebrate the expansion of Norland International, Inc., a manufacturer of bottled water production equipment and craft beer brewing equipment.
"Today's announcement is great news for Norland International, the greater Lincoln area, and the entire state," said Gov. Ricketts. "Norland doubling their staff in just 18 months is an amazing accomplishment and evidence that they are one of the many businesses helping Nebraska grow."
Joining Norland Cofounder and President Mike McFarland were Governor Pete Ricketts, DED Deputy Director Eric Zeece, Norland Company Cofounder Sam Noordhoff, Norland VP of Sales Bruce Kucera, and Norland Director of Technology and Customer Services Adam Kosmicki.
The company built the 34,000 sq. ft. Innovation and Technology Center to accommodate its rapid growth--from 49 employees in August 2014 to 95 today. The company also maintains an adjacent 35,000 sq. ft. facility.
From 2013-2015, DED awarded the company State Trade and Export Program grants totaling $35,412, which the company used to attend trade shows in Nigeria, Japan, and England. The shows resulted in substantial business from Nigeria and England.
The company also received a $50,000 Nebraska Innovation Fund Prototype grant from DED in November 2013 for its design of a state-of-the-art canning system for beer and other carbonated beverages as part of its American Beer Equipment Division's product line.
"We were pleased to provide Norland International with some financial support that ultimately opened up international doors for them and helped support them getting their state-of-the-art engineered canning system into production," said DED Director Courtney Dentlinger.
Started in 1993, Norland International, Inc. specializes in designing and manufacturing a full range of bottled water equipment for small to mid-sized bottling operations and craft beer brewing and packaging equipment. It has sold its equipment to more than 40 countries on six continents.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-celebrates-norland-international-business-expansion
