Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Highlights Global Success of the STEP Program in Nebraska
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: March 8, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts and Nebraska Department of Economic Development Director (DED) Courtney Dentlinger joined Nebraska small business owners and representatives of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to highlight the success of the State Trade and Export Program (STEP) grant program in Nebraska.
"The global economy is becoming increasingly important to the success of small businesses in our state," said Governor Ricketts. "By building trade relationships with countries around the world, our businesses can grow at home, create good-paying jobs in their communities, and Grow Nebraska."
This marks the fourth year that DED has received the grants. During the past three years, Nebraska's STEP Grant has assisted 62 small businesses with 280 unique activities, generating more than $30 million in increased exports. In 2013, more than 1,500 Nebraska small businesses exported goods valued at $1.8 billion.
"Many small Nebraska businesses that have used the STEP Grant have also used other resources, including the U.S. Export Assistance Center in Omaha, the University of Nebraska, and our trade offices in Japan and China. Company executives also regularly participate in Governor-led trade missions abroad," said Director Dentlinger. "The STEP grant has been a great way for us to establish relationships with small business exporters and make them aware of the tremendous international business programs and services available through DED's international team."
At this morning's event, Governor Pete Ricketts, DED Director Courtney Dentlinger, and SBA Regional Administrator Patricia Brown-Dixon announced a $300,570 STEP grant to continue encouraging small business exports from Nebraska.
"SBA's STEP program, now in its fourth year, provides financial awards to state and territory governments to assist small business with export development," said Administrator Brown-Dixon. "The STEP program's mission is to increase the number of U.S. small business exporters and increase their export sales to the 95% of the world's consumers located outside the United States. This program leverages the resources available to Nebraska small businesses from the Nebraska Department of Economic Development."
At the reception, several Nebraska business representatives from companies, which participated in the program over the past few years, shared their success stories. These include Jeremy Baker, Director of Business Development for Oxbow Animal Health in Murdock; Pete Stout, Sales Manager for Marshall Engines in Kearney; and Chris Righter, New Business Development Manager for RD Industries in Omaha. Oxbow Animal Health, Marshall Engines, and RD Industries have all used the STEP grant during the past two years.
Jeremy Baker of Oxbow Animal Health shared how their company has seen their international sales steadily climb since 1998 when the company first launched its products globally. He attributes a lion's share of this to the company taking advantage of key state resources, including the STEP grant and the Nebraska Center Japan in Yokohama, Japan.
The STEP grant and the Nebraska Center Japan helped Oxbow translate marketing materials that target Japanese customers, conduct market visits, form a strategic plan for doing business in Japan, and negotiate distribution agreements.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-highlights-global-success-step-program-nebraska
