Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts, Nebraska Congressmen Committed to Growing Offutt Air Force Base
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Feb. 17, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

At a news conference today, Governor Pete Ricketts, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, Congressman Adrian Smith, and Congressman Brad Ashford discussed the mission and goals of the newly-formed Offutt Air Force Base Task Force. The Offutt Air Force Base Task Force was formed in December 2015 to coordinate efforts to grow the base and provide ongoing oversight for runway repair.
"As one of greater Omaha's largest employers, Offutt Air Force Base is key to growing our state," said Governor Ricketts. "Working together through this task force, we will make the case for expanding missions at Offutt, and will proactively pursue new opportunities in support of future growth at the base."
"Offutt Air Force Base and Stratcom are essential components of our national security infrastructure," said Congressman Jeff Fortenberry. "I greatly appreciate the efforts of Governor Ricketts, Congressman Smith, and Congressman Ashford to work in partnership to ensure there is necessary oversight in the runway process."
"The 55th Wing at Offutt Air Force Base plays a vital role in our country's defense, providing strategic intelligence to military leaders and policy makers to ensure we stay one step ahead of our adversaries," said Congressman Smith. "The Sarpy County community provides a high quality of life for men and women in uniform, as well as their families, and I consistently receive positive feedback from military members around the world who have been assigned here. Thousands of families who have made the Good Life their home, sent their children to local schools, and become leaders in our communities are all reasons why we are committed to supporting Offutt."
"Offutt plays a vital role not only in our district, but also defending our nation," said Congressman Ashford. "I look forward to continued collaboration with the rest of the task force to secure additional missions in Nebraska."

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-nebraska-congressmen-committed-growing-offutt-air-force-base
