Public Statements
The Long Game on Property Taxes
Statement
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Jan. 19, 2016
Location: Unknown

Last week, I delivered my second State of the State address to the Unicameral, and then I went on the road for 10 statewide stops to talk directly with Nebraskans in South Sioux City, Columbus, Grand Island, Hastings, North Platte, Sidney, Scottsbluff, Alliance, Valentine, and Fremont. Not surprisingly, property taxes were the top issue again, but this time there is an increased sense of urgency to see progress.
Many Nebraskans continue to be concerned about their options as property taxes continue to rise. For example, Mary Lou in North Platte showed me this year's property tax bill. In 2015, her taxes went up almost 36 percent year over year on top of a 20 percent increase from 2014. If property taxes continue to increase at this pace, families like Mary Lou's may be forced to sell land their family homesteaded generations ago--just to pay their tax bill.
This isn't just a rural or agricultural issue. Valuations are on the rise for commercial and residential property as well. Many Nebraska taxpayers are on fixed income and have no ability to manage fast-paced valuation increases. In some cases, the American Dream of owning a home is becoming more difficult for hardworking families. Statewide property valuations from 2003-2013 increased by about 77 percent. With ag land values rising even more rapidly than residential, property taxes on farmers and ranchers during the same time period increased by 137 percent.
As a point of reference, property taxes make up about 40 percent of total taxes paid in Nebraska, while sales and income taxes combined come out to over 50 percent.
Property tax valuations are based on a three-year rolling average of a property's actual value. The rolling average is an attempt to prevent dramatic increases based on an isolated economic event. Practically, this also means that if values rise rapidly for a couple years, and then level out or fall, the annually assessed valuation may still increase during years three, four, and five until the highest values are removed from the average. While we all feel the pinch of increased property taxes, ag producers, who are seeing a down trend in commodity prices, are still experiencing a significant increase in property taxes each year. This reality has families like Mary Lou's facing the possibility of literally losing their family farm. The economic pressure experienced by the ag industry, which represents 25 percent of the Nebraska economy, impacts all of us.

Source:
