Public Statements
GBC Welcomes Nebraska Gov. Pete Ricketts to the Coalition's 2016 Leadership Team
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Jan. 8, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, the Coalition announced that Missouri Governor Jay Nixon will become chairman and Nebraska Governor Pete Ricketts will become vice chairman of Governors' Biofuels Coalition (GBC) this year.
"For more than 20 years, the Governors' Biofuels Coalition has worked in a bipartisan way to strengthen American energy independence and create jobs in rural communities," Governor Nixon said. "I look forward to working with Governor Ricketts to promote the production and use of biofuels because, in addition to diversifying our energy portfolio, they also give consumers more choices at the pump, reduce harmful emissions, and increase family incomes in rural America. I thank Governor Branstad for his outstanding leadership, and I look forward to building on his success."
Now that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has issued its final biofuel blending rule, the Coalition will continue to advocate for policies that grow the biofuel industry such as, proposing legislation that will encourage investment in the nation's advanced biofuel industry; asking EPA to enforce Section 202 of the Clean Air Act to limit aromatics and open the market for ethanol as a source of clean octane; dropping the obsolete vapor pressure restrictions on higher ethanol blends; and restoring the fuel economy credits (CAFE).
"I'm honored to serve as the next vice chairman of this organization, and will continue working to strengthen the energy independence of Nebraska and our country. Nebraska was one of the founding members of the Coalition, and the Coalition continues to play a major role in our nation's energy policies, including the renewable fuel standard," Nebraska Governor Pete Ricketts said.
Governor Nixon and Governor Ricketts both thanked Iowa Governor Terry Branstad for not only his leadership of the Coalition last year but for his tireless national leadership on renewable energy policy, and making Iowa a model of renewable energy development for all our states.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gbc-welcomes-nebraska-gov-pete-ricketts-coalition%E2%80%99s-2016-leadership-team
