Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Announces Approval of 1,000+ Online Stormwater Construction Permits
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: May 10, 2017
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts and the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality (NDEQ) announced the approval of over 1,000 online applications for coverage under the stormwater construction general permit. The online process has been in effect since November 2016.
"This new milestone shows that this online system continues to facilitate faster application processing, while ensuring that the state fulfills its duty to protect Nebraska's clean water," said Governor Ricketts. "Director Jim Macy's leadership has been vital in bringing this application process online and making it more efficient for Nebraska businesses to move forward on construction projects. I appreciate NDEQ and Director Macy's efforts to help make state government more effective, more efficient, and more customer-focused."
NDEQ Director Jim Macy said that the agency has achieved ambitious efficiency goals in the new online process. Previously, it would take two weeks or more for an applicant to receive coverage. Through the new process, the timeframe has been reduced to about one day for most applications.
"This is of great benefit both for the agency and for those seeking permit coverage," Macy said.
This new application process involves those who are planning construction projects of an acre or larger. To be covered under the stormwater construction general permit from NDEQ, applicants need to verify that they have a stormwater pollution prevention plan.
The new online process prevents the need for NDEQ staff to re-input information submitted by the applicant, and reduces lag time of paperwork being sent back and forth. It also helps identify those applications that need review by the Nebraska Game and Parks Commission, and streamlines that process.
The Nebraska Department of Roads (NDOR) has benefited from the new application process due the numerous roads projects that require the stormwater construction permit.
"The new online application process has helped NDOR improve its own processes and be more responsive to our customers," said NDR Director Kyle Schneweis. "This new process provides for more effective communication and collaboration between our agencies, creates savings, and reduces redundancy."
To apply online for coverage under the general stormwater construction permit, visit NDEQ's web site at http://deq.ne.gov and select "Permits and Authorizations."

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-announces-approval-1000-online-stormwater-construction-permits
