Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Comments on Nebraska's Improvement in Chief Executive Rankings
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: May 10, 2017
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts issued a statement following news Nebraska had jumped seven spots in Chief Executive magazine's 2017 Best & Worst States For Business. Nebraska tied for second most improved state, ranking 20th in the nation overall.
In their analysis, Chief Executive highlighted recent efforts to reform Nebraska's tax code and the state's growing wind industry.
"A bill for income tax and agricultural property tax changes was voted down recently in the Nebraska legislature," said Chief Executive magazine. "Lawmakers fell short on a motion to end a filibuster on Legislative Bill 461. On a lighter note, however, Nebraska has joined the "Gigawatt Club.' With the raising of Grand Prairie, a 400-megawatt wind farm in Holt County, Nebraska has sailed past 1,000 megawatts-- or 1 gigawatt--of wind-generated capacity. It's the 18th state to join the club, according to the American Wind Energy Association."
"This is more evidence that our Grow Nebraska initiatives are making a difference," said Governor Ricketts. "While our ranking this year represents remarkable improvement, we must continue to work together. As Chief Executive noted, tax reform must be addressed so we can continue to grow. Working Nebraska families continue to shoulder the burden of the fifth highest property taxes in the nation, and the 14th highest income taxes per capita."
Over the last two years, Governor Ricketts has launched a variety of initiatives to help improve Nebraska's business climate:
Partnered with the Legislature to secure $448 million in property tax relief for all Nebraska property owners.
Worked with senators to pass historic infrastructure legislation investing $450 million into expressways and bridges.
Launched a first-in-the-nation reemployment program that is putting Nebraskans back to work more quickly, and helping to reduce taxes on Nebraska businesses.
Expanded online services, including putting environmental quality permits online to speed up project and infrastructure construction in both the private and public sectors.

Under the Ricketts' administration, Nebraska has won Site Selection magazine's Governor's Cup for most economic development projects per capita and has been credited with the best regulatory climate in the nation by Forbes magazine. Nebraska ranks in the top 10 nationally for lowest unemployment in the nation, and also boasts the second highest labor force participation rate among all states.

Source:
