Public Statements
Listening to the Second House
Statement
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: July 28, 2015
Location: Unknown

Throughout my first six-plus months as Governor, I have spoken frequently about my goal of Growing Nebraska. To make this goal a reality requires the input and support of the citizens of our state. Growing Nebraska necessitates that we as Nebraskans come together to build a strategy to move our state forward. That is why over the past two years I have spent so much time crisscrossing Nebraska, visiting communities, holding town halls, and listening to taxpayers.
These travels have shaped the focus and priorities of my administration. Those priorities include growing good-paying jobs, lowering taxes, pushing back on regulation, expanding educational opportunities, and running government more like a business. All of these play a role in shaping an overall strategy for Growing Nebraska, and they serve as the inspiration for and creation of initiatives that my administration is already undertaking.
In the coming weeks and months, I will be hosting a series of town halls across the state so that I can continue to listen to you as we shape the state's priorities. This past week, I kicked off this journey with two very well attended town halls in Northeast Nebraska in Wayne and Laurel. They were both great opportunities to listen to the hopes and concerns of many hardworking Nebraskans. Questions and comments covered a lot of ground ranging from workforce development and education funding to the death penalty and cutting the growth in state government. It was especially encouraging to hear from young Nebraskans at the town halls who wanted to learn more about the future of higher education and healthcare in our state.
It is important to remember that you make up the second house in Nebraska. Our Unicameral Legislature is a one-of-a-kind legislative body made up of a single-house citizen legislature. This unique legislative body requires that the citizens of our state act as the second house, making their voice heard to their elected officials. I encourage all Nebraskans to take the opportunity to attend public events hosted by their representatives so that they can share their views on issues and hopes for our state.
This week, I will be hosting town halls in Nebraska City and Falls City in Southeast Nebraska before heading west for additional town halls in the coming weeks. I hope that you will consider joining one of these events so that I can hear directly from you. The feedback I receive at these events will help me as I continue to build a strategy to Grow Nebraska and to put together new initiatives to achieve the major priorities on which my administration is focused.
Be sure to check Facebook, Twitter, and my website at governor.nebraska.gov for all the latest information on upcoming town halls across the state. If you are not able to make it to one of the upcoming town halls, I hope you will take some time to share your thoughts by calling my office at 402-471-2244 or writing to pete.ricketts@nebraska.gov. I am always looking for your thoughts and feedback as we continue to work together to Grow Nebraska.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/listening-second-house
