Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Announces Dakota County as Nebraska's Newest Livestock Friendly County
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: July 24, 2015
Location: South Sioux City, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts today announced Dakota County as Nebraska's newest Livestock Friendly County (LFC), designated through a program administered by the Nebraska Department of Agriculture (NDA).
"Dakota County officials have shown their strong commitment to rural economic development and agriculture," said Gov. Ricketts. "By pursuing a Livestock Friendly County designation, Dakota County has shown their dedication to the livestock industry and the vital role it plays in their local economy."
The LFC program was created by the Legislature in 2003 to recognize counties that nurture and support the livestock industry. Agriculture is Nebraska's number one industry, with on-farm receipts of over $24 billion in 2014. Livestock receipts are over half of that total. Counties that are officially designated as Livestock Friendly Counties can use the designation to encourage growth in existing livestock operations and to attract new businesses. Dakota County is home to many livestock and poultry operations, as well as meat processing facilities, the Governor said.
"The Livestock Friendly County program helps acknowledge the positive economic impact that a viable livestock industry has on communities across our state," said NDA Assistant Director Bobbie Kriz-Wickham. "A strong livestock industry has a significant role as a marketplace for local grain production and uses local businesses for equipment, supplies, and professional services."
With the addition of Dakota County, there are now 30 counties designated as Livestock Friendly through the state program.
Counties wishing to apply for the LFC designation must hold a public hearing and the county board must pass a resolution to apply for the designation. Then a completed application must be submitted to NDA. Local producers or groups can encourage county officials to apply.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-announces-dakota-county-nebraska%E2%80%99s-newest-livestock-friendly-county
