Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Names Two DHHS Directors
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: July 10, 2015
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts announced the appointment of two division directors for the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). Doug Weinberg will serve as the next Director of the Division of Children and Family Services. Yolanda Webb will serve as the new Director of the Division of Developmental Disabilities.
"Doug and Yolanda will be great additions to Courtney's team that is working to transform the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services," said Governor Pete Ricketts. "As with other directors, we were able to recruit top talent with a client-service oriented philosophy. They are committed to moving the department forward, and building the culture of continuous improvement in the department."
"We are delighted to welcome Doug and Yolanda to the department," said DHHS Chief Executive Officer Courtney Phillips. "As we seek to fulfill our mission to help Nebraskans build better lives, strong leadership in these divisions will help to ensure that government works for our state's most vulnerable citizens who depend on their programming and services."
The six divisions of the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services, which provide critical services to Nebraska's most vulnerable citizens, have an annual combined budget of $3.5 billion.
Announcements about the division directors for Public Health and Behavioral Health will be made in the future.
Weinberg Named Division Director of Children and Family Services
Doug Weinberg of Fishers, Indiana, currently works as an independent consultant at Doug Weinberg Consulting, LLC where he provides consultation to for-profit, non-profit, and government sector entities. Services his firm provides include strategic planning, financial planning/analysis, grant management, state and federal funding, data management/analytics, fundraising, and health and human services program and contract design/implementation.
Previously, Weinberg served as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) for the State of Indiana's Medicaid program (2013-2014) and CFO for the Indiana Department of Child Services (2008-2013). During his tenure with the State of Indiana, he effectively managed spending reductions at the Department of Child Services during the 2009-2011 economic crisis while improving child welfare outcomes. Weinberg has also served as CFO for Lutheran Child and Family Services of IN/KY, Inc. and CFO of Children's Home Society of Florida, Inc.
Weinberg holds a Bachelor of Business Administration from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and a Master of Business Administration from the University of Illinois-Champaign where he graduated as valedictorian in a class of over 200.
"I look forward to working with Governor Ricketts and Courtney Phillips to turn the Division of Children and Family Services into the division it was meant to be," said Doug Weinberg. "As director, I will focus on ensuring that the division's finances are in order, while improving the quality of services for the children and families of Nebraska."
Weinberg will start on August 3, 2015. His salary will be $140,000.
Webb Appointed Division Director of Developmental Disabilities
Yolanda Webb of New Orleans, Louisiana, serves as the Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of Metropolitan Human Services District, the planning and public policy body for Orleans, St. Bernard, and Plaquemines Parishes. In this role, Webb oversees a $27 million budget and human service programs in behavioral health, developmental disabilities, and addiction/substance abuse.
From 2002-2004, Webb served as the Executive Director of Montgomery County Developmental Disabilities in Dayton, Ohio, where she was responsible for a $35 million budget, staff of 700, and the coordination of lifelong, wrap-around services for individuals with developmental disabilities. Webb also served as the Assistant to the Superintendent of the Hamilton County Developmental Disabilities Board in Cincinnati, Ohio.
Additionally, Webb has worked as the Editor-in-Chief of E'LON Magazine, and the Chief Executive Officer of E'LON Cosmetics, a cosmetics brand Webb helped to launch.
Webb holds a Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice from Tennessee State University, a Master in Humanities from Xavier University, and a PhD in Public Policy from Union Institute & University.
"I am thrilled at the opportunity to work alongside Courtney Phillips and Governor Ricketts," said Yolanda Webb. "Joining the Division of Developmental Disabilities builds on my previous experience and gives me a new way to continue to serve a community to which I have felt called to dedicate much of my professional career.
Webb will start on August 31, 2015. Her salary will be $142,500.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-names-two-dhhs-directors
