Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Comments on TPA Passage
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: June 23, 2015
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts and Nebraska Department of Agriculture Director Greg Ibach commented on the approval of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) by the U.S. Senate. This vote sends TPA to President Barack Obama's desk for his consideration.
"This is a good day for Nebraska. As I have said from the beginning of my governorship, one of my top priorities is to Grow Nebraska, and that means creating jobs and expanding businesses," said Governor Ricketts. "Increasing exports is one way to do that. With Trade Promotion Authority now in the President's hand, we are closer to completing trade agreements that open up more opportunities for Nebraska to increase our exports and thus grow our economy."
"Over the past several months, I have said how important passing TPA was to Nebraska in regard to opening up more export opportunities," continued Ricketts. "Over 20 agriculture organizations joined me in echoing that sentiment. Today's passage of TPA in the U.S. Senate moves us a step closer to completing trade agreements that will be important to all aspects of our state's economy. I want to thank Nebraska's Congressional Delegation for staying united on this issue and voting yes on TPA legislation."
"Nebraska agriculture has a great deal at stake when it comes to foreign markets," said Director Ibach. "With over $6 billion in exports last year, including $1 billion in beef products alone, the scope of importance of trade is without question. With Trade Promotion Authority, U.S. negotiators will have more credibility to finalize negotiations on TPP and continue moving forward on T-TIP for the benefit of Nebraska agriculture and the overall economy."
"Trade agreements provide opportunities to improve our trading relationships with many countries that already appreciate our product, as well as breaking down barriers to access markets in new countries," Ibach continued. "In the past several years, I have had the opportunity to take part in several international trade missions on behalf of Nebraska agriculture. I know our products have the quality consumers around the globe are looking for."

Source:
