Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Names State Patrol Superintendent
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: April 13, 2015
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts announced that Bradley Rice of Elkhorn would serve as the next Nebraska State Patrol Superintendent.

Rice is a retired member of the Nebraska State Patrol where he rose in the ranks to serve as Troop B Commander which included responsibility for 56 troopers, 16 civilian staff, and 23 counties in Northeast Nebraska. As Commander, he oversaw specific law enforcement responses, patrolling and scheduling, security assessments for State of Nebraska Critical Assets, and negotiated treaties with Native American nations. Additionally, he served as the direct liaison between the Nebraska Emergency Management Agency and local Allied Law Enforcement Agencies in the planning and deployment of state assets in the event of man-made or natural disasters. Rice has previously served as a Trooper, Police Service Dog Handler, Sergeant, and Lieutenant in the Nebraska State Patrol.

Currently, Rice serves as Communications Director for Sarpy County Nebraska E911.

Rice is a graduate of the 152nd School of Police Staff and Command at the Missouri Highway Patrol Training Academy and Nebraska State Patrol Basic Training at the Nebraska State Patrol Academy. He is a past board member of the Northeast Nebraska Sheriff & Police Officer Board and was named as the 2007 Supervisor of the Year by the State of Nebraska.

"I am honored to serve the Nebraska State Patrol in this new capacity," said Bradley Rice. "As Superintendent, I look forward putting my experience to work in recruiting, training, and leading the Patrol as we work together with other local law enforcement to serve the people of Nebraska.

"Bradley's prior service in a variety of ranks within the Nebraska State Patrol's chain of command will guide his leadership as Superintendent," said Governor Ricketts. "I know his integrity will direct his decisions as he works with patrol members across the state to protect public safety."

Rice will start March 23, 2015. His salary will be $90,000.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-names-state-patrol-superintendent
