Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Names Veteran as Next DAS Director
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: March 24, 2015
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts announced that U.S. Army veteran Byron Diamond of Omaha would serve as the next Director of Administrative Services for the State of Nebraska.

Diamond recently retired as Executive Director of Logistics for the Nebraska Military Department where he was responsible for all Nebraska Military Department supply chain and equipment maintenance programs. In this role, he managed over 160 subordinate staff with a $19.8 million budget. Previously, Diamond also served as Executive Director/CIO of IT Operations for the Nebraska Military Department.

Prior to his full-time employment with the Nebraska Military Department, Diamond worked for CSG Systems, Inc. of Omaha which is a global provider of billing and customer care solutions to technology companies ranging from cable television to wireline markets. Diamond initially held the roles of Director of High Speed Data Operations and Director of Business Continuity Planning before ultimately serving as Director of Product Life Cycle.

Diamond holds an Associate of Applied Science in Finance from Southeast Community College, a Bachelor of Professional Studies in Business Administration and Technical Services from Bellevue University, and a Masters of Strategic Planning from the U.S. Army War College.

Diamond retired after 28 years of service as a U.S. Army Colonel in February 2015. He is also a retired member of the U.S. Army Logistics Corps and a veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom. He is a member of the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and he has been awarded the Bronze Star Medal, the Meritorious Service Medal, and the Army Commendation Medal. Diamond also currently serves as the President of the Nebraska National Guard Historical Society.

"I am honored to continue my public service by leading the Department of Administrative Services," said Byron Diamond. "I look forward to working with Governor Ricketts to ensure that the department's operations are client-service oriented and cost competitive."

"Byron is a great addition to our team," said Governor Pete Ricketts. "His experience in private sector, military, and government operations will assist my administration in seeking new ways to better deliver services and streamline state government operations so we can hold the line on state spending."

Diamond will start March 30, 2015. His salary will be $115,000.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-names-veteran-next-das-director
