Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Announces Domestic Beef Promotion Activity in New York City
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: Kearney, NE

Gov. Pete Ricketts this afternoon announced plans for a domestic trade promotion trip that will feature beef from Nebraska at several New York City venues. The trip will include events April 9th-10th at three restaurants and a butcher shop. He made the announcement at the 27th Annual Governor's Ag Conference in Kearney.
"We don't only have to set our sights overseas for market development work," the Governor said in announcing the trip. "We should be ready to capitalize on any appropriate opportunity to expand sales of our agricultural goods."
Promotion activities are planned at four sites: Burger & Lobster, who boasts its burgers are made from three cuts of Nebraska steak; Bull and Bear Prime Steakhouse, a Wall Street favorite noted for its cuts of beef and its proclamation that Nebraska's Buffalo Bill frequented there; Empire Steak House, known for its beef dry-aging process and its signature USDA dry-aged porterhouse; and Ottomanelli Butcher Shop, a family-owned and operated business that carves out a corner of its shop specifically to promote beef from Nebraska.
Nebraska Agriculture Director Greg Ibach said the promotional trip grew out of a trade relationship established in the international marketplace. The owners of Burger & Lobster also have ownership interests in several restaurants in London, many of which serve only Nebraska beef.
"When they decided to open a restaurant in New York City, again exclusively using beef from Nebraska, we wanted to work with them to highlight our product," Ibach said. "They know the quality of our product and have been to Nebraska to meet the people who raise and process it. The personal relationship, developed during international trade activities, now will pay dividends right here in the United States."
The Governor said he asked the Department of Agriculture to find additional restaurants who were interested in Nebraska beef to raise the profile, and potential sales, during the New York visit.
"We want to make the most of our quick visit, and we were pleased to find additional locations that appreciate the quality of Nebraska beef," Gov. Ricketts said.
Gov. Ricketts said anyone interested in promoting beef from Nebraska is welcome to join the trip. Participants would travel at their own expense and receive invitations to the various activities. More details will be available about the promotional events as the April dates near, but those who are interested in learning more at this time should call the Nebraska Department of Agriculture at 800-831-0550.
The Governor also is encouraging Nebraskans with family and friends in the New York City area to promote the activities once further details are announced. Those details will be available in the coming weeks.

Source: http://www.governor.nebraska.gov/news/2015/03/05_domestic_beef.html
