Public Statements
Gov. Pete Ricketts' Inaugural Speech
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Jan. 8, 2015
Location: Unknown

President Foley, Speaker Hadley, Chief Justice Heavican, Members of the Legislature, distinguished guests, family, and fellow Nebraskans.

Congratulations on the beginning the 104th Nebraska Legislature. I am humbled and honored to serve you as the 40th Governor of the great State of Nebraska.
Welcome to the new members of the Unicameral and my fellow constitutional officers. I look forward to working with each and every one of you.
Today, as is with all inauguration days, is a time of new beginning for the state of Nebraska. As I look into the future, I'm optimistic about the road that lies ahead. We have a great state, filled with opportunity.
It is also a time to take stock. We've turned the calendar to 2015. In a little over two years, we will celebrate Nebraska's 150th anniversary of statehood.
Our rich history is deeply rooted in freedom, opportunity, liberty, and the hope for a better life for future generations.
A few years before statehood in 1862, the Homestead Act was signed into law by President Abraham Lincoln, who also selected Nebraska to be a crossroads for a great transcontinental railroad.
The first Homesteaders were citizens, immigrants, and freed slaves. They traveled hundreds of miles to Nebraska by foot, wagon train and railroad seeking a better life.
A special incentive was provided for the patriots who served in the Union Army. One of the first Homesteaders, Daniel Freeman, was one such soldier. He claimed a piece of land at Cub Creek near Beatrice. Another veteran, Robert Ball Anderson, was a former slave who earned his freedom in the Union Army. In 1870, he became the first freed African-American Homesteader.
Today we gather in Lincoln, our state capital, named for one of the greatest of American presidents who shaped the destiny of our state. We continue to welcome all those who value freedom and are in search of a better life. We welcome people from all over the world, who study at our great Universities or work at our businesses, farms and ranches. And as our forefathers did a century and a half ago, we honor the veterans--the men and women who sacrificed and served our country.
Folks, we have a beautiful state filled with tremendous opportunity from the Missouri River to the Sandhills to the Pine Ridge.
Nebraska is what America is supposed to be.
The strength of our state lies in our people. Nebraskans are engaged in their communities, their schools, and their churches. And when we have problems, we find ways to work together despite our differences.
The future of our state continues to depend on our ability to pull together, to solve problems, and to grow Nebraska. I am excited to work together in a spirit of collaboration to move our great state forward.
To create the futures that Nebraska families want and deserve we must work toward four goals.
First, we must strengthen our economy and create jobs. These priorities go hand in hand. We must create more and better paying jobs for our kids and grandkids and attract kids from across the country. We must create the 21st century infrastructure and pro-growth policies that foster investment by business and productivity for our farms and ranches.
However, there's a major barrier to growing jobs in our state: Nebraska's high taxes. We must cut taxes.
Whether you're a homeowner, farmer, rancher, or small business owner, everyone feels the burden of high taxes.
Nebraskans from Alliance to Syracuse have expressed their strong interest in finding a pathway to property tax relief. That is my number one priority this year.
At the same time, we must act responsibly. It is our constitutional duty to balance our budget while funding the priorities that the people of Nebraska care about most.
Next, we must reduce regulatory burdens. Whether it's a livestock producer in Bridgeport or a manufacturer in Deshler, business owners bear the burden of oppressive over regulation.
As governor, I will stand up to the excessive regulation forced on us by Washington. At the state level, I will work to ensure our regulatory process is fair, transparent, and more efficient.
In addition, we must strengthen our education system. We must make sure our young people have the skills they need to compete in a 21st century global economy and in particular career and vocational training. Every manufacturer I've spoken to has told me they can't find enough skilled labor, and it's a barrier to them expanding in our state.
In the coming weeks, I will continue to meet with members of the legislature to build relationships so that we can Grow Nebraska.
As we work together, you will have other ideas on how to reach our goals. You may have other concerns you are hearing from your constituents. I promise I will listen closely and with an open mind.
Nebraskans want government to work. They hold us to high standards. I will work hard each and every day to meet those standards and safeguard the public's trust. I urge Nebraskans everywhere to stay engaged: You are the second house. Hold us accountable for what we achieve and help us Grow Nebraska
In the words of Virginia Smith, the only woman to represent Nebraska in the U.S. House of Representatives, "There is no excellence without great labor."
On behalf of my wife Susanne and our entire family, thank you very much, and God Bless the people of this great state.

Source: http://www.omaha.com/news/legislature/full-text-of-gov-pete-ricketts-inaugural-speech/article_3055ed0a-9778-11e4-a752-cb34596e4f48.html
