Public Statements
Omaha World-Herald - State Surplus? Chuck Hassebrook Wants Investment in Education; Pete Ricketts Calls for Tax Relief
News Article
By: Todd Watson Chuck Hassebrook Jim Jenkins Ben Sasse Pete Ricketts
Date: Aug. 8, 2014
Location: Ashland, NE

By Robynn Tysver
Democrat Chuck Hassebrook and Republican Pete Ricketts both have clear and distinctly different visions for what Nebraska should do if the state ever finds itself with extra cash in its coffers.
Hassebrook argued Thursday during a governor candidate forum that if the state has more cash than it needs in its rainy-day fund, those dollars should be invested in early childhood education.
"Kids who are succeeding in school don't join gangs. Kids who are succeeding in school don't, generally, need public assistance," Hassebrook said.
Ricketts argued any surplus should be used to cut taxes.
"If we're going to be competitive in this state, we have to have serious tax relief," Ricketts said.
The two candidates for governor met on the same stage Thursday, and answered the same questions, during a candidates forum sponsored by the Nebraska Chamber of Commerce and the Lincoln Chamber of Commerce.
In addition to the governor candidates forum, the chambers held a question-and-answer session for Nebraska's U.S. Senate candidates, each of whom carved out distinct views on energy policies.
Democrat David Domina called for an end to oil and gas subsidies, saying the nation needs to invest those dollars in alternative energy, such as wind.
"We do have climate change. It is a real issue. It's time to stop fossil fuels," Domina said.
Republican Ben Sasse stressed that he had no problem with fossil fuels. In fact, he praised the controversial mining technique called fracking, saying it would soon allow the nation to be a net exporter of natural gas.
Sasse said all of the nation's natural resources, including wind and solar power, should be developed. "We're incredibly blessed to be an energy rich nation," Sasse said.
Jim Jenkins, a Callaway rancher who is running as an independent, said he believes fossil fuels hurt the environment but the reality is that fossil fuels are not the "bad guys" and are going to be around for a long while.
Jenkins said he, too, would like to develop more alternative fuels, while also pushing conservation measures.
"We need to understand (fossil fuels) are going to be a critical part of our economy for a long time," Jenkins said.
Todd Watson, a Lincoln man who also is running as an independent, said America needs to ended its reliance on "foreign oil," saying oil was the main reason behind the Iraq War.
"We need to be energy efficient at home, completely self-reliant," said Watson, who like Jenkins gathered the 4,000 signatures needed to be placed on the November ballot.
The chamber event was advertised as a forum rather than a debate. Candidates were not given a chance to offer a rebuttal, and only about four questions were asked of each of the candidates.
However, almost all of the candidates took the opportunity to try to distinguish themselves.
In the governor's race, Hassebrook stressed his commitment to education. A former longtime member of the University of Nebraska Board of Regents, Hassebrook argued that for the state to grow its economy, it has to invest in education.
He also argued that he has the skills to work with both Republicans and Democrats in the Nebraska Legislature, noting that he was elected twice to serve as chairman of the NU Board of Regents, despite being outnumbered by Republicans.
He vowed not to get involved in legislative campaigns. "I'm not going to become the chief campaigner for Democratic candidates for the Legislature," Hassebrook said.
Ricketts stressed his experience as a business executive, and he said repeatedly that one of his top priorities in office would be to reduce taxes, especially property taxes.
He noted that he has called for agricultural valuations to be reduced from 75 percent of market value to 65 percent of market value. He also has called for a cap that would reduce the rate at which land values could be increased.
A lower tax environment, Ricketts said, would create more jobs and economic growth.
"If we're really going to grow the state, we have to be competitive on the tax rate," Ricketts said.
Among the U.S. Senate candidates, the federal budget dominated their discussion.
Domina said his first priority in office would be to end "tax loopholes," which he said cost the nation about $20 billion a year in lost tax revenue. He said he opposes the growing partisanship in Washington, D.C., that led to last year's government shutdown.
If he were sent to Washington, Domina said, he would put Nebraskans' interest above partisanship.
"I'm offering to do the work. I'm not begging to do it. It's up to you to consider my offer," Domina said.
Jenkins said his first priority would be to find a nonpartisan solution to the nation's budget woes. Jenkins, who has supported the so-called Simpson-Bowles budget plan, said that would be one place to start.
"We have to quit acting like two warring tribes. Republicans and Democrats have to realize that at the end of the day, we have to come together and support a budget deficit plan," Jenkins said.
Sasse said one of his top priorities would be finding ways to reduce entitlement spending, starting with abolishing the Affordable Care Act, President Barack Obama's signature health care law.
Sasse said entitlement spending has become a bigger slice of the nation's overall budget and is growing at unsustainable levels.
He stressed his commitment to a smaller federal government, saying states and local governments should be doing most of the governing in the nation. "Washington should do a limited number of things, a lot more effectively," Sasse said.
Watson made clear that his faith was a key reason for his run, arguing that he believes the nation's political and spiritual foundations were broken.
"If we can get a closer relationship with God, our neighbors and quit oppressing the poor, he can heal this land," Watson said.

Source: http://www.omaha.com/news/metro/state-surplus-chuck-hassebrook-wants-investment-in-education-pete-ricketts/article_63f271b0-1e60-11e4-88b9-0017a43b2370.html
