Public Statements
Dear Fellow Nebraskan
Statement
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: July 16, 2014
Location: Unknown

Thank you for your interest in my campaign for Governor of the great State of Nebraska. As I've visited with farmers, ranchers, small business owners and families across the state people often ask me why I want to serve as Nebraska's next Governor.
The answer is because I believe we can move Nebraska forward, together. I want to make sure every child receives a great education and has the opportunity to live, work and raise a family here in Nebraska. As Governor, my priorities will be education, jobs and the rural economy. That means I will ensure educational opportunities and improve educational outcomes, hold the line on taxes and spending, be a partner in creating good-paying jobs, and be a tireless advocate for agriculture and our rural communities.
Thanks to wise and steady leadership, Nebraska stands out as a state with a strong economy and low unemployment. One of the biggest challenges facing Nebraska is a good one -- we have more jobs than workers.
Nebraska needs skilled labor -- java programmers, welders, doctors and large animal veterinarians -- and the answer starts with creating the right educational opportunities and workforce development. Working together with the K-12 system, community colleges, state colleges and the University system, we can connect our sons and daughters to good paying jobs close to home.
Building our workforce through educational opportunities will also enable local businesses and industries to expand in Nebraska and will help us attract new jobs to Nebraska -- broadening our tax base so we can reduce the tax burden on individuals and families.
Our state's economy is rooted in agriculture and the farms, ranches and small towns from the Missouri River to the Pine Ridge. As Nebraska's Governor I promise to be an unwavering advocate for agriculture and the rural economy -- from trade to water issues and regulation to taxes. Our future is tied to protecting and growing agriculture, and in particular value-added agriculture.
With your help, I will be on the frontline protecting taxpayers while maintaining core governmental responsibilities like education, caring for those who cannot care for themselves, public safety, and infrastructure. Together we can make the right choices and hold the line on government spending and eliminate unneeded programs.
As Governor, I will continue to work to create a culture that protects life, values the sanctity of marriage, defends our second amendment rights, and opposes taxpayer funded benefits for illegal immigrants.
The best thing about Nebraska is that we cherish family, faith and community. As a result we enjoy safe communities, we help our neighbors, and we teach our children the value of hard work. That is why there is no place like Nebraska, and why I want to serve you and your family as Nebraska's next Governor.
To be successful, I need your help. I want your input and your support. This campaign is going to be about people and what we can achieve for future generations working together. And it's going to be successful because of people like you.

Source: http://www.petericketts.com/petes-letter/
