Public Statements
Omaha World-Herald - Pete Ricketts: Tax Reform Can Help Grow State's Economy
Op-Ed
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: May 18, 2014
Location: Omaha, NE

Beyond beautiful, diverse landscapes, open skies, and bountiful natural resources, the "good" in the "good life" is most precisely the people of Nebraska -- a people shaped by a uniquely rural heritage of working hard, working smart, and helping your neighbor when help is needed.
In this campaign for governor, it's been a priority of mine to meet and visit directly with Nebraskans from one end of the state to the other. Over nine months, our team traveled 34,000 miles, established 88 county organizations, and conducted more than 100 town hall meetings and community discussions in cities and towns from Harrison to Harvard and Laurel to Lodgepole.
We've sat together in coffeeshops and exchanged ideas in libraries and community centers, discussing how state government might work better for families and communities. The message Nebraskans delivered was consistent and clear: While we enjoy the good life, there is serious work to do -- as a state -- to make it better and sustainable into the future.
We need to grow. We need to make state services more effective and more affordable. We need to unite as one Nebraska -- rural and urban.
To meet these challenges, we need strategic vision, leadership with a fresh perspective shaped by real-world experience, and a culture of inclusiveness and collaboration.
My priorities for responsible reform and new growth throughout Nebraska center on these principles:
1) Real Tax Reform. While politicians have talked about property tax relief, in particular, for years, what's needed is real-world reform. The burden has become too great on Nebraska families and disproportionately impacts rural and working Nebraskans. Listening to Nebraskans, I've crafted a plan and am committed to making tax reform an urgent and achievable priority.
2) A Vibrant Rural Economy. Agriculture and manufacturing -- our state's two largest industries -- bolstered our economy during a national recession. Today, Nebraska's location, resources, and people ideally position us for exciting new growth in these key sectors that anchor rural communities. As a businessman, I know you can't cut your way to growth. I've crafted detailed plans on growing ag and manufacturing opportunities. They focus on prioritizing investments in roads and career education, promoting value-added ag products like biofuels, growing both export and new domestic food market opportunities -- all the while helping keep young people in rural places with better economic opportunities.
3) Increased Educational Opportunities. Providing young students engaging options for career education and vocational training means greater opportunity for success and student fulfillment. We should encourage creative partnerships within communities to help guide students on paths to good jobs in local industries. In addition, state discussions on education policy should be made open to all educators -- public and parochial schools, teachers and parents. The end goal is ensuring all Nebraska kids, from inner-city Omaha to rural Thedford, have a fair shot at an education that best offers them the tools for lifelong success.
4) New and Better Paying Jobs. While our state unemployment rate is low, many Nebraskans are underemployed. They work jobs that don't pay much and oftentimes don't provide benefits. To help create an environment for economic growth and better-paying work, we must get out of our own way. Less senseless regulation and lower and fairer tax rates will help grow existing businesses and attract new ones.
While these are complex challenges, they are the right ones to address if we're serious about growing our state. The consequences of inaction or of misplaced priorities are economic inertia and seeing more of our young people drawn away by better opportunities elsewhere.
I recognize the work ahead of us won't be done in isolation. I learned in business that you must work collaboratively or you won't be successful. The outcome of forging constructive and lasting partnerships with state senators, community leaders, and Nebraskans across the state is long-term success. If we can't work together, we won't grow together.
It's an extraordinary privilege to be a Nebraskan, and a great honor to seek to lead our state. I recognize the seriousness of the work ahead. I hope to help ensure a brighter future for generations of Nebraskans to come with a plan for growth that helps move Nebraska forward.

Source: http://www.petericketts.com/category/news-clips/
