Public Statements
Ricketts Releases Plan To Reform Federal Budget
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Sept. 26, 2006
Location: Omaha, Nebraska


Ricketts Releases Plan To Reform Federal Budget
Omaha, Neb. - This morning, Pete Ricketts unveiled his plan to reform the annual federal budget process. "We need to reform the spending process and get our federal spending under control now so as not to burden the next generation," said Ricketts.
"Nebraska deserves a United States Senator with the courage to fight for budget reform and the political resolve to enact fiscal discipline."
Pete Ricketts' Budget Reform Plan
• Move Congress to bi-annual budgeting like we have in Nebraska. This would allow Congress to exercise greater oversight and review spending priorities to determine whether programs are necessary and meeting their goals.
• Provide a line-item veto for the President to eliminate wasteful spending.
• Budget for emergencies and disasters. America experiences emergency conditions annually, but neither the President's nor Congress' annual budgets contain an emergency or disaster category. Under current rules, money designated as "emergency" or "supplemental" does not count against the annual budget, helping fuel government overspending.
• Eliminate or reform the earmarking process. The earmarking process allows Members of Congress to allocate federal money to specific local projects and fosters a culture of "I won't touch your pork barrel project if you don't touch mine." Examples of this irresponsible culture are the "Bridge to Nowhere," federal money to build the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame, and an indoor rainforest in Iowa.
"From agriculture subsidies to social security payments, from Medicaid to a strong national defense, from transportation appropriations to Pell grants - our federal budget is critical to the well-being and future of America. The long term good we aim to do with the tax dollars we invest in these various programs is only possible if we have a fiscally stable and sustainable government," said Ricketts.
http://www.petericketts.com/full_press.asp?press_id=79
