Public Statements
Ricketts Calls on Anonymous Senator to Release the "Hold" on Legislation to Promote E-85
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Sept. 25, 2006
Location: Unknown


Ricketts Calls on Anonymous Senator to Release the "Hold" on Legislation to Promote E-85
Last week, an anonymous Senator used a procedure called a "hold" to stop Senate consideration of a bill the House of Representatives passed in July to promote E-85. The House bill uses Treasury funds derived from CAFE standards violations by car companies to provide grants for gas station owners who want to purchase or install "alternative refueling systems," such as E-85 pumps. In 2005, these fines generated approximately $20 million.
"I am deeply disappointed that an anonymous Senator would deny the Senate and American corn growers the opportunity for a vote on this important legislation, and I call on that Senator to release his hold on this important bill. It has strong, bi-partisan support and passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 355-9," said Pete Ricketts. "I have no doubt it would easily pass the Senate were it allowed a vote.
"Like all Americans, I am happy that gas prices are coming down to more affordable levels. However, we cannot afford to let this current good news erase our memories of the economic hardship caused by paying $3 a gallon for gasoline. We cannot allow the availability of cheaper gas to slow the momentum towards increased alternative energy production that benefits agricultural producers and helps America ensure its energy independence.
"I support ethanol and other renewable fuels. This legislation helps gas stations purchase pumps for E-85 and other renewable fuels. Only 830 of the 170,000 gas stations nationwide offer E-85 pumps, including only 28 in Nebraska. This grant program will help increase that number. I also believe that this legislation will create an even larger market for Nebraska corn growers.
"I call on the United States Senate to pass this important legislation before adjourning for the election season."
Ethanol production will increase by approximately three billion gallons over the next six years, and U.S. auto makers are producing a greater number of flex-fuel vehicles. At the same time only 830 out of 170,000 gas stations across the country offer E-85 ethanol and the Nebraska Ethanol Board website lists only 28 such stations in the state. Enacting this bill into law would improve infrastructure for ethanol and other alternative fuel sources.
http://www.petericketts.com/full_press.asp?press_id=81
