Public Statements
Ricketts Responds to Nelson's Wish-List, Cites Nelson's Failure of Leadership
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Sept. 11, 2006
Location: Omaha, NE


Ricketts Responds to Nelson's Wish-List, Cites Nelson's Failure of Leadership
Omaha, Neb. - Earlier today, Senator Ben Nelson issued a column citing his vote last month for the so-called "Trifecta" bill, which would have raised the minimum wage and permanently eliminated the death tax.
Nelson stated that "Four votes are all that stand in the way of tax relief," and that he is "hopeful that his colleagues will have a change of heart" and vote to pass this bill when it comes up again.
Pete Ricketts responded, "I support this bill. But the fact that it didn't pass is a perfect example of Ben Nelson's lack of leadership and ineffectiveness in Washington.
"If Nelson had any clout or negotiating power he would have rallied the support of four of his Democrat colleagues to meet the 60 votes needed for passage, and Nebraskans would now have permanent estate tax relief. Only one other Democrat voted for this bill. Nelson should have used his alleged "bi-partisan" abilities to persuade his Democrat Leadership to allow the bill to pass on a simple majority without requiring a filibuster proof majority.
"Just hoping his Democrat colleagues have a change of heart is not leadership and it's not getting anything done for Nebraskans. He can't even persuade four of his Democrat colleagues or the Democrat Leadership to support a bill that includes increasing the minimum wage.
"Senator Nelson also claims he was one of a handful of Senators who helped to cut taxes in 2001 and 2003. The April 9, 2001 Wall Street Journal stated the 2001 tax cuts were 20 percent lower than they otherwise would have been due to Senator Nelson's actions. In 2003, he voted for 23 separate amendments to reduce the tax cuts and increase spending before the tax cuts finally passed. Had these amendments actually passed, they would have increased spending by $618 billion, gutting the tax cuts and further increasing the deficit.
"Doing one thing and saying another is just one of the reasons Nelson is ineffective for Nebraska - he can't be trusted on important issues."
http://www.petericketts.com/full_press.asp?press_id=74
