Public Statements
Pete Ricketts' Border Security Plan
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Aug. 23, 2006
Location: Omaha, NE


Pete Ricketts' Border Security Plan
Omaha, Neb. - Pete Ricketts has released a detailed plan to address border security and illegal immigration.
Pete's plan (attached) adds details to the position he put out in the primary, and includes securing the border as a first solution, increased border personnel and resources, opposing amnesty by requiring illegal immigrants to return to their countries of origin to receive legal temporary work status and a tamper proof ID card, strict employer enforcement, and a verifiable temporary worker program.
1. Securing our Borders, First and Foremost It is too easy for terrorists, drug smugglers, and illegal immigrants to get into the United States. The first step to solving any problem is to keep it from getting worse.
? Identify a timetable and measurable goals ? Permanently cease any form of a ‘catch and release' program and increase detention facilities for illegal immigrants ? Increase border patrol agents and immigration and customs personnel, and invest in equipment and technology ? Combine technology with physical barriers to secure the border
2. Opposing Amnesty We cannot ignore the 10 to 12 million illegal immigrants who are in our country now and need to hold illegal immigrants accountable for breaking the law. Illegal immigration has had a profound impact on our communities - our health care systems burdened and our school systems are strained.
? Pay a fine and back taxes ? Undergo national security and criminal background check and certify employment o Ellis-Island Centers One idea under discussion that I support as part of a compromise would require illegal immigrants to ‘self-deport' to their countries of origin to gain legal temporary worker status through "Ellis-Island Centers." Under this proposal, American-owned employment agencies in the countries of origin must be licensed and overseen by the Department of Homeland Security and Department of State. These agencies are required to confirm employment, facilitate criminal background checks, and conduct public health screening of all applicants.
3. Reforming the System - Interior Enforcement The government has failed to enforce the laws already on the books. This has lead to a crisis that calls for substantial reform and determined enforcement for employers.
? Tools for employers to determine legal status ? Strict employer enforcement and severe employer penalties and employer community impact fees ? Verifiable temporary worker program, and tamper proof identification cards for all visa holders ? Deportation enforcement
4. Promoting Economic Opportunity Abroad Through Trade
5. Promoting the American Culture and American Interests
http://www.petericketts.com/full_press.asp?press_id=67
