Public Statements
Associated Press - Ricketts Plays The Hillary, Kennedy Cards
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: June 14, 2006
Location: Lincoln, NE


Wednesday, June 14, 2006 - Associated Press
Ricketts Plays The Hillary, Kennedy Cards
Kevin O'Hanlon
LINCOLN, Neb. - Want to fire up a bunch of Republicans?
Just mention Ronald Reagan.
Want to rile them up?
Start dropping the names of prominent Democrats _ especially Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Ted Kennedy.
Republican senatorial candidate Pete Ricketts is trying to do just that in his latest television ad in his bid to unseat Democratic Sen. Ben Nelson _ a race that Republican leaders say could tip the scales for party control of the Senate.
"As a Reagan Republican I know Washington politicians have abandoned our conservative values of low taxes and limited government, values at stake in this Senate race," Ricketts says in the ads. "A Democratic Senate controlled by Hillary Clinton and Ted Kennedy promises an agenda of higher taxes, more government spending and liberal judges. An agenda against our Nebraska values."
Reagan is still seen by many Republicans as the savior of the GOP. Before his 1980 victory over President Carter, Democrats held the House, the Senate and the presidency.
Candidate Reagan's coattails helped carry a Republican majority into the Senate for the first time in a quarter-century _ beginning the party's halting march toward its current domination of Congress, the presidency and a majority of governorships.
On the opposite end of the approval scale for Republicans are Clinton and Kennedy _ the poster kids of liberalism in this heavily conservative Republican state.
And Ricketts isn't afraid to invoke their names for the sake of votes.
His ads show pictures of Clinton and Kennedy with the words: "Higher taxes. More government spending. Liberal judges."
"As your Republican senator, I'll work to cut your taxes, cut spending, and protect our values," Ricketts says. "Conservative change, Nebraska values. That's the answer."
Ricketts said Tuesday that the ad "is just meant to remind folks what's at stake here."
"This is a national race," he said. "It has national implications about who controls the United States Senate."
For his part, Nelson said that the Ricketts ad must be "running in the twilight zone, because it doesn't reflect reality."
Nelson said he has voted against $5.35 trillion in federal spending over his six years.
"People know my record of cutting taxes and spending," Nelson said.
Referring to Ricketts, Nelson said "What he says he's going to do, I've done."
The Nebraska Democratic Party, meanwhile, is running an ad touting Nelson's record.
"As governor, we cut the sales tax, cut the income tax and vetoed over $157 million in spending," Nelson says in the ads. "We're not done yet. I'll keep fighting to eliminate the death tax, cut spending and bring permanent tax relief to Nebraska families."
Ricketts, a political newcomer, is the son of the founder of online brokerage firm Ameritrade. He recently resigned his spot on the board of directors at TD Ameritrade in order to concentrate on his campaign.
Ricketts, who estimates his wealth at $45 million to $50 million, spent some $5 million of his own money in the primary, breaking a state record for the most money spent by a candidate out of his own pocket.
Nelson has already amassed a $3 million war chest after running unopposed in the primary.
Neither will say how much they think it will cost for the general campaign.
http://www.petericketts.com/full_article.asp?article_id=72
