Public Statements
Read Pete's Vision For Border Security And Immigration
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: May 1, 2006
Location: Unknown


Monday, May 01, 2006 - PRESS RELEASE
Read Pete's Vision For Border Security And Immigration
Securing America's borders and enforcing immigration laws are two of the most basic obligations of the federal government. Between ten and twelve million illegal immigrants currently reside in the United States and more cross our borders unlawfully everyday. As your United States Senator, I would work for comprehensive immigration reform by:
? Securing our Borders
? Opposing amnesty
? Reforming the Current Immigration System
? Promoting Economic Opportunity Abroad Through Trade
? Promoting the American culture
Securing our Border
The first step to solving any problem is to keep it from getting worse. It is too easy for terrorists, drug smugglers, and illegal immigrants to get into the United States. We must address the fact that in some cases illegal immigration is a direct threat to our national security. In 2005, the Border Patrol arrested 155,000 illegal immigrants from countries other than Mexico. 649 of those people were from "special interest" countries, such as Afghanistan and Iraq. Terrorism is a real and distinct threat to our nation and its connection with illegal immigration cannot be ignored. We must also work to stop the flow of drugs into this country. Approximately 80% of our methamphetamine comes from Mexico. A comprehensive strategy to secure the border requires that we work towards the addition of more immigration agents to patrol the borders and better enforcement of immigration laws already on the books. A fence that is longer than the Great Wall of China doesn't make sense, but more fences near metropolitan areas could work if combined with increased technology. America is the leader of technology in the world; we should leverage our strength to solve the border security problem. Whether it is through unmanned aircraft, radar, or surveillance cameras, we must leverage technology to secure our borders. Our law enforcement officials need information quickly to get this problem under control.
Opposing Amnesty
Border security is a first step in solving illegal immigration. We must address the large number of illegal immigrants currently residing within U.S. borders. Each day illegal immigrants burden our hospitals, public schools, and social services. Illegal immigration has had a profound impact on the State of Nebraska. In the past, under the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, Nebraska authorities only received $852,000 compensation out of $2 million from the federal government for the incarceration of illegal immigrants in state and local jails and prisons. That means $1.4 million in uncompensated costs were borne by Nebraska taxpayers. This is just one example of how costly illegal immigrants can be to our society. That said, it would also be extremely costly to round up millions of illegal immigrants and send them home. I do not support amnesty - we should hold the illegal immigrants accountable, they broke the law. We need to establish a way to bring the illegal immigrants who want to work, obey our laws, and contribute to society out of the shadows. I support working towards a program that would allow some illegal immigrants to stay under strict guidelines. They must pay a fine, undergo a criminal background check, have a job, pay taxes, break no further laws, and speak English. In 1986, the Federal Government gave amnesty to the illegal immigrants currently in the United States, with the promise of enforcing future laws against businesses that employ illegal immigrants. The government hasn't enforced those laws, and businesses do not have the resources to quickly and easily screen potential hires. We need to operationalize and expand the Basic Pilot Program that allows companies to screen potential workers immediately. We need to hold the businesses accountable, and we must give them the tools needed to ensure their employees are legal.
Reforming the Current Immigration System
Our current system of immigration must be reformed. Current regulations give people incentives to come to this country illegally and make it difficult for those who wish to become citizens. We must leverage technology with electronic entry/exit systems and find a way to streamline the process of immigration. I believe a wall alone is a simplistic solution to a complex problem. The entire system must be reformed.
Promoting Economic Opportunity Abroad Through Trade
One of the things we can do to stem the tide of illegal immigrants is to promote economic opportunity aboard through trade. If we aggressively pursue agreements like NAFTA and CAFTA, economic and living conditions in many countries will improve. Many times, people come to the United States illegally because there are no jobs or opportunities for them in their countries of origin. If we continue to promote free trade and economic stability around the world, the number of illegal immigrants to the U.S. will begin to decrease.
Promoting the American Culture
America is a country founded and grown by immigrants. Immigrants throughout history have assimilated into the American culture, while retaining pride in their heritage. We must continue to promote the American culture, by being good examples of citizens ourselves. We should be proud to wave the American flag, say the Pledge of Allegiance, and sing the National Anthem. We should also encourage current and future immigrants to assimilate. That means speaking English and learning about the history of this country, especially the men and women who fought to defend it.
Illegal immigration is an emotional issue. We must find solutions immediately by working together. As your United States Senator, I will work to secure the border, oppose amnesty, update the current immigration system, encourage economic opportunity abroad, and promote the American culture. This is an issue that we must address immediately. There are many opportunities for immigrants in America, but they should come to this country legally.
http://www.petericketts.com/full_press.asp?press_id=51
