Public Statements
Read Pete's Vision For Strengthening Agriculture
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: March 21, 2006
Location: Unknown


Tuesday, March 21, 2006 - PRESS RELEASE
Read Pete's Vision For Strengthening Agriculture
Agriculture is the legacy of who we are as a state and the backbone of our economy. I understand that difficult challenges lie ahead for Nebraska's agriculture producers. We need more than the status quo. I want to serve our current and long-term agriculture interests by expanding opportunities for Nebraska farmers and ranchers. We can take the first steps toward maintaining our strong farm economy by moving agriculture policy forward and emphasizing:
? Market-oriented free and fair trade principles;
? Bio-based fuel production and other value-added opportunities
? Comprehensive rural economic development
These components continue to promote Nebraska's economic and agricultural interests while helping to maintain and grow our rural communities.
Free and Fair Trade Principles
A market-oriented approach for Nebraska products is needed to lessen our reliance on the federal government and allow producers to explore free and fair markets, as well as new markets to sell their goods at home and abroad. This is vital to Nebraska as nearly one third of our agricultural products are sold as foreign export. Also, 96 percent of the world's consumers live beyond America's borders. I will support trade agreements that make meaningful gains in market access for producers. However, free trade should still be fair trade. Foreign producers enjoy high subsidies and fewer regulations than Nebraska farmers and ranchers. The federal government should encourage strong markets so producers can demand competitive prices for their products, and utilize our advances in technology to create more value-added opportunities. Farm policy must emphasize entrepreneurship rather than entitlement while sustaining a fiscally sensible safety net for our farmers and ranchers. To that end, I will support programs like Mandatory Price Reporting and Crop Revenue Coverage. Livestock is also a key element in Nebraska agriculture and we must have the necessary tools to ensure that it remains a strong component of the industry. I believe the use of farm savings accounts would give producers a hand-up. Producers pay into the account and the government would match the funds to a certain level. On a down year, the producer can take the money out of their account. This plan doesn't distort pricing; it allows and encourages the producer to save for bad years with the government's help.
To encourage efficiency in farm operations, I propose that programs like animal identification be self-regulated. Self-regulated animal identification, properly administered with input from producers, industry groups, and the Department of Agriculture, will increase efficiency, and put more power in the hands of Nebraska producers. I believe the next farm bill must incorporate these principles. Policies that help Nebraskans compete in the global market place are essential to continued success.
Bio-based Fuel Production and Value-added Opportunities
Ethanol is rapidly becoming an even more important part of Nebraska's economy. There are currently 11 ethanol production plants in the state, requiring nearly 300 million bushels of grain and providing direct employment for approximately 1,000 people. Ethanol is playing a vital role in rural development; but I believe it also has a vital role in our national defense. Reliance on foreign energy threatens both our economy and our homeland security. Brazil is already using ethanol to lower their fuel costs and provide renewable domestic energy. U.S. energy use has increased by 30% in the last 30 years, while domestic energy production has increased by only 10%. I want to ensure America's economic and energy security by boosting energy production here at home, including bio-fuels and renewable energy made in Nebraska. I support incentives to increase the use of economically sustainable bio-based technology, such as plastics made from corn and soybeans. Measures like this reduce our dependence on foreign oil while providing new markets for producers that bring jobs to rural communities.
Comprehensive Rural Economic Development
Rural economic development is vital to America's continued success. As we move forward we need small communities to support our agriculture and industry. I support initiatives that will empower entrepreneurs and bring new businesses to small towns. Programs designed to help people engage in micro-enterprise will provide new economic opportunities. I support value-added initiatives and federal grants aimed at assisting our local communities. Our land grant universities, like the University of Nebraska, must receive funding to conduct more research for alternative crops, markets, and diversified uses of current commodities. This will allow small farm operations and businesses to innovate in the future and provide market development which will lead to job creation and bring people back to Nebraska. Conservation efforts can also assist with rural development. Buffer strips and windbreaks will contribute to wildlife habitat, providing more hunting and recreation dollars for Nebraska, while helping to slow flooding and erosion. It is vital that we continue to encourage growth and sustainability. As we learned from the Nebraskans who settled our great state, entrepreneurialism is the key to rural prosperity. Small businesses have a positive impact on local families and communities. We must provide economic opportunity for every Nebraskan.
Market-oriented free and fair trade principles, value-added opportunities including bio-based fuel production, and comprehensive rural economic development are some of the key components to maintaining Nebraska's strong farm economy and competitive edge. As a fourth generation Nebraskan, I understand how important agriculture is to our state. In the United States Senate, I would work to serve on the Agriculture Committee to ensure Nebraska's interests in agriculture receive full consideration. With your help, Nebraska agriculture will have continued success. I will continue to travel Nebraska and listen to your advice and concerns as we work to ensure Nebraska agriculture remains strong.
http://www.petericketts.com/full_press.asp?press_id=46
