Public Statements
Read Pete's Vision For Fiscal Responsibility
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: March 21, 2006
Location: Unknown


Tuesday, March 21, 2006 - PRESS RELEASE
Read Pete's Vision For Fiscal Responsibility
Nebraskans value responsible government spending and want more control over their money with less interference from the government. We need to control spending, balance the budget, and encourage investment to spur the economy. Fiscal discipline will be my top priority in the United States Senate. As a businessman and problem solver, I balanced budgets by watching the bottom line and controlling spending. With my business experience, I am uniquely qualified to work with the federal budget and help prioritize expenditures. I will get into the details of spending and help balance the budget. The best way to reduce the national debt is to cut taxes and grow our economy. I believe that can be accomplished by focusing on:
? Controlling federal spending and reforming the spending process;
? Making tax relief permanent and simplifying the tax code;
? Promoting a culture of fiscal responsibility.
Controlling Federal Spending and Reforming the Spending Process
In 2006, our deficit is expected to reach at least $337 billion. Our current national debt is eight trillion dollars. I believe our spending system is broken and must be reformed. As a nation, we have to get our spending under control. Large deficits hurt the future of the U.S. economy with the potential for higher taxes and cuts to vital programs like Social Security. As a fiscal conservative, I will vote for measures that make meaningful cuts in spending and support bills that eliminate or limit the earmarking process. I will also support bills that limit the scope of legislation so that projects irrelevant to the bill's objective cannot be added. We must not allow the federal budget to be misused for special interest projects. I will work for new legislation to end special interest spending, a renewed commitment to enforceable spending caps, and a line-item veto.
