Public Statements
The Columbus Telegram - Ricketts: Values Can Move State Forward
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Nov. 18, 2005
Location: Columbus, NE


Friday, November 18, 2005 - Columbus Telegram
Ricketts: Values Can Move State Forward
By JEAN WILSON/Telegram Assistant Editor
COLUMBUS - Pete Ricketts was in Columbus on Thursday as part of a statewide tour announcing his candidacy for the U.S. Senate.
He said even though the economy is growing, the country is still struggling with big government and big deficits. Ricketts would use core Nebraska values - faith, family, responsibility, hard work and determination - to change the situation.
"It's time to apply our values, our priorities to this problem," he said during a news conference at Centre Perk at the Village Centre Mall.
The 41-year-old Omaha businessman is one of three Republican candidates running for a chance in 2006 to challenge incumbent Sen. Ben Nelson, a Democrat. The other two candidates are Omaha lawyer David Kramer and former Nebraska Attorney General Don Stenberg.
Ricketts was born in Nebraska City and grew up in Omaha. His experience with the family's brokerage business, Ameritrade, would be an asset in the Senate, he said. He is vice chairman of the board of directors for Ameritrade Holding Corporation. Until August, he was chief operating officer for the company.
While in Columbus, he said his No. 1 priority as a senator would be to get government spending under control. He said he understands there's a difference between "nice to have" and "got to have."
He said he knows how to take on problems head on and make tough decisions and that he would be the voice of Nebraska's common-sense values.
"My parents taught me if you wanted something you had to work for it," he said.
Calling himself a businessman and a problem solver, Ricketts said Nebraska is called the Heartland, not because it is in the center of the nation, but because its residents care so much about their families, their neighbors, their communities and their country.
Ricketts said he is different from his opponents because of his experience.
"I have that real world experience," he said. "It's that experience we need in the federal government."
http://www.petericketts.com/full_article.asp?article_id=39
