Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Unveils Coalition Supporting Income Tax Relief
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Jan. 30, 2017
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts and small business representatives from across the state unveiled a coalition in support of income tax relief. The Governor's proposal, introduced by Revenue Committee Chairman Jim Smith, would provide income tax relief to hardworking Nebraska families and small business owners.
"We are fighting for income tax relief for the hardworking families and business owners of Nebraska this legislative session," said Governor Ricketts. "Their stories are why Senator Smith and I have prioritized income tax relief. High taxes are a barrier to growth and expansion. From Main Street in Valentine to the Silicon Prairie in Lincoln and in Omaha, income tax relief will help grow Nebraska. I look forward to testifying in front of the Revenue Committee to advocate for this plan, and working with the full Legislature to make tax relief a reality this year."
Under LB337, Nebraska would take the top tax rate for individuals with taxable income as low as $29,831 down roughly one-tenth of one percent per year, starting in 2020, as long as the state's revenue growth exceeds 3.5 percent. In effect, Nebraska will have a trigger when the state hits 3.5 percent growth to take the top income tax rate from 6.84 percent down a little each year until it's under six percent.
"Thank you to the organizations who are throwing their support behind LB337 today," said Revenue Committee Chairman Smith. "For Nebraska, income tax relief is one of the keys to growing our state. It's no secret that high income taxes are a major hurdle for job growth and investment. I look forward to working with the Revenue Committee and full Legislature this session to deliver meaningful income tax relief with LB337 for hardworking Nebraska families and business owners."
At the news conference, Governor Ricketts announced that the following organizations had endorsed LB337:










Source:
