Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts, Ag Leaders Outline Growth Strategies for Nebraska Agriculture
Statement
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: Sept. 14, 2016
Location: Lincoln, KS

Today at Husker Harvest Days, Governor Pete Ricketts and ag leaders representing major associations gathered to discuss growth strategies for Nebraska's ag producers in light of the impact of low commodity prices on Nebraska's farm and ranch families.
"Ag commodity prices are down, and it's having an impact on our farm families and our state," said Governor Ricketts. "Agriculture is the heart and soul of our state's economy. Whether you ranch near Harrison or work for a food processer in Omaha, agriculture is a major driver of job creation and our economy statewide. That is why it is so important to focus on how we can grow agriculture. If we grow agriculture, we can grow Nebraska."
During the news conference, the Governor and ag leaders identified providing property tax relief, expanding trade opportunities, and cutting red tape as key priorities for growing agriculture in the coming years. The Governor urged Nebraskans to actively engage local governments in budget building to support fiscal restraint and local property tax relief. He also mentioned his administration continues to study additional opportunities for tax reform.
"Today, we're dealing with significantly lower prices for virtually every commodity we produce in Nebraska," said Nebraska Farm Bureau President Steve Nelson. "This means that incomes are down, and farmers are spending less -- not just on equipment and machinery, but all facets of their operations, including main street purchases. While the ag economy has slowed, we can improve our economic outlook by encouraging fiscal restraint in state and local government, supporting property tax relief, growing trade, and cutting red tape."
In addition to tax relief, the Governor and ag associations highlighted the importance of expanding trade relationships and their continued support for the ratification of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) by Congress.

Source:
