Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Launches New State of Nebraska Brand
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: July 12, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts and the Nebraska Department of Economic Development (DED) unveiled the new State of Nebraska brand at a launch event kicking off the first annual Governor's Summit on Economic Development. The tagline, "Good Life. Great Opportunity." is the foundation of the brand, which includes a new logo and website. Governor Ricketts said the brand reflects Nebraska's historic strengths and projects a vision for the future.
""Good Life. Great Opportunity.' is a phrase Nebraskans can embrace. From Sandhills ranches to Omaha high rises, this brand is inspired by the men and women who grew Nebraska for our first 150 years," Governor Ricketts said. "Growing Nebraska is the mission of my administration, and opportunity is the first step towards achievement. You can see opportunity everywhere in our state from the farms and ranches that are the backbone of our number one industry to the innovative startups in Silicon Prairie and Fortune 500 company headquarters."
Nebraska-based marketing and communications agency Firespring developed the brand during a process that included gathering input from diverse groups of Nebraskans across the state through meetings and online surveys. The project began as a rebranding effort for DED and expanded to encompass all state agencies. The tagline and logo can be customized to fit the mission of each agency and phased in over time.
"The "Good Life. Great Opportunity." message resonates with the people that the Department of Economic Development is targeting. It builds an image for the state that encourages growth," DED Director Courtney Dentlinger said. "Talented individuals looking for opportunities to build their careers and contribute to their communities, entrepreneurs planning new startups, and established companies seeking a place to grow."
Background on the branding process, including a video expressing the brand story, is available at GoodLifeGreatOpportunity.com.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-launches-new-state-nebraska-brand
