Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Touts State Support for Guard, Reserve Members
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: July 5, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts signed a statement of support reaffirming the State of Nebraska's commitment to state employees serving in military reserve units. Representatives from the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) and state agencies, as well as state employees serving in reserve units, joined the Governor for a signing ceremony at the State Capitol.
"As someone who has hired reserve and retired military members, I can personally attest that the leadership skills and loyalty of our servicemen and women are a huge asset not only to state government, but to any organization," said Governor Ricketts. "It is an honor to sign this statement today reaffirming the State of Nebraska's support for our employees who serve in National Guard and Reserve units."
At the ceremony, the Governor noted that numerous other organizations across Nebraska have signed similar statements of support.
"The signing of a Statement of Support by Governor Ricketts provides tangible evidence of Nebraska State Government's advocacy for employee's participation in the National Guard and Reserve," said Nebraska ESGR Chair Paul Cohen. "Our nation and our state need the men and women in our reserve component, but they would not be able to successfully train and serve without the employers' understanding and support."
Several of the Governor's cabinet members joined him at the news conference to show support for the guard and reserve unit members working in their agencies.
"The strength of any reserve component is directly related to the strength of the reserve component member's relationship with their unit, their employer, and their family," said Nebraska National Guard Adjutant General Daryl Bohac. "All three must be strong in order for the member and the unit to be successful. Today we are focusing on the strength of the relationship with the employer and I am proud to say that we enjoy strong support from our employers and that is due in part to the great work by Nebraska's committee for the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve led by Brig Gen (ret) Paul Cohen."

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-touts-state-support-guard-reserve-members
