Public Statements
Gov. Ricketts Highlights Global Engagement Success With Wordlawn Expansion
Press Release
By: Pete Ricketts
Date: June 30, 2016
Location: Lincoln, NE

Today, Governor Pete Ricketts announced the expansion of Worldlawn Power Equipment, Inc., a global manufacturer whose U.S. headquarters is based in Beatrice, Nebraska. Worldlawn has acquired a 275,000-square-foot facility in Beatrice to house the expansion. Last year, Governor Ricketts met personally with Worldlawn President Hardy Shao, and with Mr. Wang Weiyao, Chairman of Jiangsu World Group, the parent company of Worldlawn.
"I'm very pleased to see this expansion go forward," said Governor Ricketts. "This is another example of how Nebraska is a great place for international companies to invest and grow. We have worked hard to develop a relationship with World Group and are thrilled to see it bear fruit in the form of this expansion."
Worldlawn, and Encore (a division of Worldlawn), both manufacture outdoor power equipment, including professional and commercial lawnmowers (riding, stand-on, and walk-behind mowers), residential lawn mowers (riding mowers), and snow throwers.
The Governor has prioritized global engagement through trade missions and meetings with foreign diplomats and businesses as they visit Nebraska. Last year, the Governor led trade missions to the European Union and Asia, including China. He will return to China on a third trade mission this November.
"Investments from companies like Worldlawn show the value of global engagement," said Director of the Nebraska Department of Economic Development Courtney Dentlinger. "Companies like Worldlawn add jobs and opportunities to the state economy."
"We like Beatrice, and this is a great opportunity for our company to invest in the community," said Hardy Shao, President of Worldlawn. "Nebraska has been a wonderful fit for our company. We are excited to grow our business and are grateful for the state's support.
Worldlawn and Encore are currently housed in a 100,000-square-foot facility in Gage County Industrial Park. Company officials are analyzing how to best use the 401 N. Commerce facility and Gage County Industrial Park facility. The new building acquisition will serve as a means for diversification, expansion, warehousing, and solidifying the company's long-term goals.
Although official expansion plans for the company are still being finalized and a timeline has not been firmly established, there will be a need for more employees. Currently Worldlawn Power Equipment employs 25-plus people and plans to increase staffing in various departments, including Management, Engineering, Sales, and Marketing.
"It's great to have a local company purchase the building," said Walker Zulkoski, NGage Executive Director. "Worldlawn's investment and commitment to growing here shows that we have a thriving business environment where companies are confident in achieving long-term success."
Worldlawn Power Equipment, Inc. was established in California in 2004 and has been in Beatrice, Neb. since 2011 when the company purchased Encore Manufacturing. The building utilized for the expansion is located at located at 401 N. Commerce Street in Beatrice and was previously occupied by Husqvarna. The purchase was finalized today.

Source: https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-highlights-global-engagement-success-wordlawn-expansion
