Public Statements
Governor's Office News Release: Governor Ige Applauds Federal Proposal Setting the Path For Native Hawaiians to Establish Formal Government
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Sept. 29, 2015
Location: Honolulu, HI

In a groundbreaking move for the Native Hawaiian community, the U.S. Department of Interior today announced a proposal to create a pathway for the Native Hawaiian community to reorganize a Native Hawaiian government and re-establish a government-to-government relationship with the United States.
The Native Hawaiian community has not had a formal government since the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawai"i in 1893.
The proposal would create an administrative procedure and criteria that would be applied if the Native Hawaiian community forms a unified government that seeks a formal government-to-government relationship with the U.S.
"This issue has been discussed for many years, and I support President Obama and the Department of the Interior's efforts to move it forward. I urge the public, particularly Native Hawaiians, to comment on this possible pathway for the United States and Native Hawaiians to establish a government-to-government relationship. The public comment period for the proposed rule is an invitation for the public to participate in the rule-making process," said Gov. David Ige.
"The United States has a long-standing policy of supporting self-governance for Native peoples, yet the benefits of the government-to-government relationship have long been denied to Native Hawaiians, one of our largest indigenous communities. Today's proposal is testament to the Obama Administration's strong support for our nation's Native peoples' right to self-determination," said Interior Secretary Sally Jewell.
Today's proposal is available for review at www.doi.gov/ohr, and public comments on it will be accepted for the next 90 days.  Members of the public are encouraged to read the proposal and provide comments in writing by email to part50@doi.gov, on www.regulations.gov (docket no. DOI-2015-0005), or by U.S. mail/hand delivery to the Office of the Secretary, Department of the Interior, Room 7228, 1849 C St. NW, Washington, DC 20240.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governor-ige-applauds-federal-proposal-setting-the-path-for-native-hawaiians-to-establish-formal-government/
