Public Statements
News Release: Governor Ige Sigs Maui Healthcare Reform Bill
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: June 10, 2015
Location: Wailuku, HI

Gov. David Ige today signed into law House Bill 1075, which authorizes the Maui Region of the Hawai"i Health Systems Corporation (HHSC) to enter into negotiations for a public-private operational and management agreement, subject to approval by the Governor, the HHSC and the Maui Region Board of Directors.
Lt. Gov. Shan Tsutsui, key House and Senate leaders, Maui Region and HHSC board members and community supporters gathered at Maui Memorial Medical Center for the bill signing ceremony.
"This bill gives us an historic opportunity to transform the delivery of healthcare to the people of Maui. We have a lot of work to do to ensure the successful implementation of this new law," said Ige.
The governor said the state will work collaboratively with the Maui Region Board and the HHSC to select a private partner and finalize the terms and conditions of this partnership by the end of the year so that implementation can begin in 2016.
"We are committed to working with our dedicated public employees who are key to the successful implementation of this policy and central to a smooth transition that is focused on patient care and quality service to the people of Hawai"i," Ige said.
"This action was absolutely essential for the people of Maui," said the bill's introducer, Speaker Joseph M. Souki (Kahakuloa, Waihee, Waiehu, Puuohala, Wailuku, Waikapū). "The financial situation for Maui Memorial was not sustainable for the short or long run, and what we are doing today will open the doors for a vital public-private partnership to keep Maui's hospitals open and to most importantly provide the appropriate and quality care for the people of Maui County."
"On behalf of myself and the two honorable Senators from Maui, we hope, with the signing of this important legislation, quality health care will no longer be an uncertainty in the future for those who call Maui home. We are confident that negotiations will diligently move forward the process of establishing a public-private partnership that will build a stronger health care system and ensure residents will continue to receive the health care services they need and deserve," said Senate Majority Leader, Senator J. Kalani English (East and Upcountry Maui, Lāna"i, Moloka"i).
"With the enactment of HB 1075 we look forward to eventually reducing the amount of taxpayer moneys subsidizing healthcare delivery in Hawai"i. Through the assistance of a private partner, the Maui County community can look forward to the stabilization of available health services and the eventual growth of new services," said Linda Rosen, M.D., HHSC chief executive officer.
Maui Memorial Medical Center is Maui's only full-service, acute medical care facility and is the only hospital outside of O"ahu that provides a full range of cardiac services, including open-heart surgery and angioplasty. The Maui region of HHSC serves over 11,000 inpatients and over 45,000 emergency room patients per year, and employs over 1,500 of our community's family and friends.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/news-release-governor-ige-signs-maui-healthcare-reform-bill/
