Public Statements
News Release: Agreement Reached on Future of Turtle Bay Conservation Lands
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: April 30, 2015
Location: Honolulu, HI

Today Governor David Ige, key members of the State House and Senate, Ray Soon, Chief of Staff to City and County of Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell, Lea Hong, Trust for Public Land, and Doug Cole, North Shore Community Land Trust, held a news conference to announce that an agreement has been reached regarding the future of conservation lands at Turtle Bay.
A fact sheet outlining the agreement is below.
"None of us could do this individually," said Gov. David Ige. "We have worked together as partners to accomplish something significant for the state. We are preserving open space and recreational opportunities along O"ahu's shoreline for future generations."
Speaker of the House Joseph M. Souki said, "The proposed bill will give the state the beach front property around Kawela Bay in fee simple for $35 million, instead of buying just the easement for the same price. It is a much better deal than the original offer and one that will allow us to create a nature park out of Kawela Bay for generations to enjoy. Together, we were able to come up with a plan that not only overcame the initial roadblocks but, more importantly, preserves a part of Hawaii that makes us a better community as a whole."
"Mahalo to Governor Ige, my colleagues in both state and city government, the property owners and the conservation community for crafting this landmark agreement to preserve the coastal lands of Kawela Bay for generations to come. This is a great investment in open space and recreational access for residents and visitors alike, and most importantly for providing important protection for our native and endangered species that inhabit the area," said Sen. Gil Riviere (District 23 -- North Shore to Kaneohe).
"The agreement announced last year has been enhanced through the feedback of the legislature, Governor Ige's leadership, and the continued support of the City & County of Honolulu and other conservation partners," said Drew Stotesbury, Chief Executive Officer of Turtle Bay Resort. "This agreement offers increased public benefits while protecting in perpetuity 665 acres of open lands. This agreement delivers on the massive conservation of land that the people and communities of the North Shore were promised."

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/news-release-agreement-reached-on-future-of-turtle-bay-conservation-lands/
