Public Statements
Nelha Press Release: Nelha Announces Three New Business Startups at Hawaii Ocean Science and Technology Park
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Kailua-Kona, HI

The Natural Energy Laboratory of Hawaii Authority (NELHA) announced today that it has signed long-term leases with Hawaii Kai Technologies and Forever Oceans. In addition, EnKon Hawaii LLC has recently begun manufacturing operations converting resin into preforms for the beverage industry throughout the State.
"I am pleased that NELHA is building momentum in the marine and energy sectors," said Governor David Ige. "These new companies, along with existing tech park businesses, employ hundreds of people and contribute over $120 million to the state's economy."
Hawaii Kai Technologies is an established and renowned firm that specializes in gourmet salts from Molokai since 2003. Hawaii Kai is expected to start production of deep-sea salt and its valuable byproduct, desalinated water, at NELHA's HOST Park by November 2015. According to George Joseph, Hawaii Kai's CEO, "The company uses proprietary technology to produce award winning salt products that have attracted the attention of top chefs around the world and well known personalities such as Jay Leno and Martha Stewart."
Gregory Barbour, NELHA Executive Director, said, "We have been chasing these folks as long as I can remember and we were finally able to negotiate a long-term deal with them. We are excited that Hawaii Kai has chosen to expand its business at NELHA and produce unique products from the deep sea water we pump from a depth of 3,000 feet."
Barbour added, "The Hawaii Kai project is a direct result of NELHA's efforts to attract diverse commercial enterprises that will make use of the agency's unique resources and contribute to the diversification of West Hawai"i's economy."
Another startup business at HOST Park is Forever Oceans, a corporation formed to commercialize open-ocean aquaculture. Lockheed Martin teamed up with Kampachi Farms, an existing NELHA client, to form Forever Oceans and take the two companies' initial collaborative R&D work to the next level. The new sublease, on approximately 6.8 acres, will allow Forever Oceans to proceed with commercial demonstrations in waters off of Keauhou and elsewhere in the world. According Neil Anthony Sims, CSO of Forever Oceans, "I have been at NELHA with various startups for the past 25 years. NELHA has developed a very supportive ecosystem which has helped us achieve our recent success."
Recent additions to the park's resident clients even include a manufacturing company, Enkon Hawaii LLC, which specializes in fabricating preforms for the beverage industry. The company will export about half of its product back to the beverage industry on O"ahu. Barbour said, "We are excited about bringing a manufacturing company with about 10 employees to the neighbor islands and we are happy the company selected HOST Park."

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/nelha-press-release-nelha-announces-three-new-business-startups-at-hawaii-ocean-science-and-technology-park/
