Public Statements
Governor David Ige Appoints Lynn Decoite to Serve as Representative of State House District 13
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Feb. 19, 2015
Location: Honolulu, HI

Governor David Ige today announced his appointment of Lynn DeCoite to serve as Representative of State House District 13.
DeCoite lives in Hoolehua on Molokai where she is an owner of L&R Farm Enterprises and R.J.'s Snacks and co-owner of V-8 Ranch. In 2012, she won the First Annual Kaanapali Fresh Best in Show, and in 2007 she won the Maui County Mayor's Small Business Award.
In addition to her business enterprises, DeCoite has been an active member of the community serving as chairperson of the Farm Service Agency (Maui County) and president of the Molokai Homestead Farmer's Alliance. She is a former board member of the Molokai Planning Commission and former PTSO President -- Molokai Middle School, and she was part of the Molokai Workforce Development Agricultural Working Group. DeCoite will resign her position on the State Board of Agriculture, a post she has held since 2012, to take up her new responsibilities.
"I thank the House District 13 Nominating Committee for forwarding three outstanding individuals for consideration and for working so quickly to get the names to me. It's important that the residents of this district are represented without delay," said Governor David Ige.
"I'm confident Ms. DeCoite knows the issues facing the district and will listen to her constituents to address their concerns," Ige said. "She has deep roots in the community and is committed to overcoming the challenges by forming partnerships and working collaboratively."
"I'm deeply honored to serve the community in this capacity," DeCoite said. "This is an opportunity for me to help address issues like drought, food gathering and security, emergency response programs, and the promotion of economic development for small and large businesses," she said.
Ms. DeCoite will be considered officially in office after she takes the oath of office and is qualified and seated by the House of Representatives.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governor-david-ige-appoints-lynn-decoite-to-serve-as-representative-of-state-house-district-13/
