Public Statements
Governor David Ige Annouces Two Key Appointments
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Jan. 16, 2015
Location: Honolulu, HI

Governor David Ige today announced two key appointments to his cabinet.
Doug Chin, local attorney and former managing director for the City and County of Honolulu, has been named Attorney General. Chin polished his litigation and leadership skills during his 12 years at the Honolulu Prosecuting Attorney's office. Chin is leaving his current post as the managing partner at Carlsmith Ball to take the position.
"Doug Chin is a man of integrity who has the skills and experience to perform his duties as the state's attorney general at the highest level," Governor David Ige said. "He is able to defend the state in court, facilitate and negotiate agreements, manage a large department and communicate well. It's rare to find someone who can do all those things."
Chin earned a bachelor's degree in English from Stanford University and added a law degree from the William S. Richardson School of Law, University of Hawaii.
"It's an honor for me to join the administration and serve as the attorney general. This is an opportunity to solve problems, and I welcome it."
Randy Iwase has been appointed to the Public Utilities Commission and named Chair of the Commission. Iwase's expertise in this arena stems from his years as the Supervising Deputy Attorney General whose division provided legal counsel to the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs and the Public Utilities Commission. He is also a former state legislator and former Honolulu city council member. Recently, he was the Chair of the Hawaii State Tax Review Commission.
"Randy Iwase's extensive experience makes him the right person to lead the Public Utilities Commission during this time of transition and transformation," said Governor David Ige. "He has tackled tough issues in the past and has a strong record of commitment to the public. I know he will hold the regulated industries accountable to the people of Hawaii."
Iwase earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Florida and his J.D. from the University of San Francisco School of Law.
"I thank Governor Ige for this opportunity to help resolve some of the most urgent issues of our time," said Randy Iwase. "The state's long-term success depends on the affordable and environmentally appropriate generation and distribution of energy. I'm eager to get to work."

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governor-david-ige-announces-two-key-appointments/
