Public Statements
Issue Position: Budget
Issue Position
By: David Ige
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

We must take care of business first. As Governor, I will submit a balanced budget to the Legislature. As the Chair of the Senate Ways and Means Committee for the past four years I crafted a balanced budget in each of those years. During that time I reduced the current Governor's spending proposals by a total of $1 billion. That is why the State now enjoys an $800 million surplus.
I also rejected the current Governor's proposal to tax retirees' pensions. I refused to balance the budget on the backs of seniors. In addition, I rejected his proposals to tax soda and plastic bags, as well as his attempts to raise the Transient Accommodations Tax (TAT) by an additional 2%. This would have raised the cost of a Hawaiʻi vacation for tourists, making Hawaiʻi less competitive among visitor destinations throughout the world. My philosophy in budgeting is that the State must operate within its means instead of raising taxes. I will not propose new programs when our state budget lacks the resources to pay for them.
Tax backlog. Another way to balance our budget is to collect taxes owed. Currently a total of $450 million is owed to the State in back taxes. Rather than raising taxes, I will secure the necessary resources for the State Department of Taxation to collect these back taxes.
I will implement the Tax Department modernization project, which would result in a significant increase in additional tax collections -- as much as $500 million, by some estimates -- in addition to the backlogged amounts.
My track record: I bring to the administration my strong fiscal and management background.
Over the past five years, I led passage of legislation to implement a long-range plan to ensure the solvency of the State retirement system and health benefits trust fund, which provide pension and health care benefits to current and future State government retirees. Hawaiʻi is the first state to enact such a plan.
Using technology to increase efficiency and reduce waste and costs, I spearheaded the State Senate Paperless Initiative, which reduced paper consumption in the Senate by 85 percent.

Source:
