Public Statements
Issue Position: Economy
Issue Position
By: David Ige
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Tourism is the single largest component of our economy, and I will do all that I can to support and grow our visitor industry. The value of tourism to our economy cannot be overstated. It brings billions of dollars into the economy and provides thousands of jobs.
The net value of Federal spending in Hawaiʻi -- the difference between the amount of taxes we send to Washington, D.C. and receive in spending -- has declined every year under the current Governor. As Governor, I will work with our Congressional delegation to reverse this trend.
As an electrical engineer in private business for 35 years, I know first-hand that Hawaiʻi has the potential to become the premier telecommunications center of the Pacific. We will develop a new information industry in Hawaiʻi, bringing with it business opportunities and high paying jobs with minimal environmental impacts.
A sterling example of how technology can improve our community is the success of Waianae High School's Searider Productions, a multi-media program originally founded in 1986 with the support of legislative funding which I helped obtain, along with private grants and federal assistance. Many of its graduates went on to college, gained professional work experience and went on to outstanding media careers. Their talents led to the founding of Mākaha Studios, an award-winning "for profit" video production and digital media company.
I will invest in strategic growth industries, such as information technology, clean energy, health care, and local agriculture.
Tourism Action Plan:
Increase domestic and international visitor travel to all of our islands by working with commercial airlines to schedule more flights to Hawaiʻi. I will also work toward creating another international entry point at the Kona airport. This would relieve the federal Customs Service congestion at Honolulu International Airport and improve the arrival experience for foreign visitors.
Work with our Congressional team to make it easier for international travelers to visit our islands by improving the visa issuance process in China, and through customs and immigration pre-clearance for visitors from Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Korea to any of the Hawaiian Islands.
Increase the hotel capacity and provide needed infrastructure improvements in all our counties. I will hold state departments accountable for expenditures of funds and completion of improvements.
Work with the Hawaiʻi Convention Center to increase its use by more aggressively seeking corporate conferences and conventions.
My track record:
I have continued to support the vital function of the Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority to promote Hawaii as a destination for vacations and conventions. I rejected the current Governor's proposal to reduce the Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority's marketing budget by $10 million in 2011.
I helped direct funds to modernize our airports, harbors, and roads because it is the welcoming face we show to incoming visitors and make a lasting impression.
Technology Action Plan:
Attract technology firms by developing incentives for technology development, along with support systems to facilitate innovation and entrepreneurship.
Develop partnerships with organizations such as the University of Hawaiʻi, the East-West Center, the Hawaiʻi Strategic Development Corporation, and the High Technology Development Corporation to establish Hawaiʻi i as the innovation center of the Pacific.
Facilitate the availability of risk/venture capital for entrepreneurs and innovators in strategic growth industries, such as information technology, health care, energy and local agriculture.
Implement state-of-the art technology to enable State agencies to do their jobs more efficiently and effectively. For example, instead of encouraging filing online, the State Tax Department charges taxpayers a fee. As a result, many tax returns are filed by mail and opened by hand, resulting in a substantial backlog in processing tax returns, delays in investing the tax revenue, and unrealized interest revenue to the State.
My track record:
I co-authored the Hawaiʻi Telecommunications and Information Industries Act, which created a statewide microwave telecommunications network and statewide information network as the gateway for all public and private information providers. All of Hawaii's residents have access to this network, which provides information services, interactive videotext services, and toll-free dial-up service.
I led the effort to connect all public schools to the Internet, resulting in Hawaiʻi becoming one of the first states to do so.
I established the Hawaiʻi Strategic Development Corporation, which provides venture capital and supports new businesses and start-ups.
I supported the High Technology Development Corporation in implementing programs such as incubation facilities, including the Manoa Innovation Center and the Maui Research & Technology Center, and software development.
I supported the development of the Technology Transfer Programs at the University of Hawaiʻi to link UH research discoveries to technology-based start-up companies.

Source: http://www.davidige.org/action-plan/
