Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: David Ige
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Improving public education is one of my top priorities. I will reform the public education system to empower individual schools so that teachers and school principals make the decisions on curriculum and instruction, educational programs, and expenditure of school funds. Those closest to the students understand best how their students should be educated. The Board of Education, which is appointed by the Governor, has failed to provide the leadership that empowers individual schools. As a result, student performance does not attain maximum potential.
I support early childhood education but I am opposed to the proposed constitutional amendment that allows taxpayer dollars to be spent on private preschools. The constitutional amendment is ill-conceived because it asks voters to approve a preschool program that gives your tax dollars to private entities that admittedly lack the capacity to admit all eligible children and are not located in areas of greatest need. Even though tax dollars would go to private schools, there are no cost estimates, no details of how the program will work, and no indication that all children will have an equal opportunity to enroll in a private preschool.
As Governor, I would allocate those tax dollars to the Department of Education and task the DOE to implement early education, starting in the areas of greatest need.
As a proud product of public schools, education created great opportunities for me that I would not have had otherwise. Hawaiʻi's children deserve quality public education that provides an opportunity for all students to achieve their highest potential. Quality public education also creates a workforce with the skills and knowledge that are necessary for a strong economy.
Education Action Plan:
The greatest proportion of funding for education should be spent at the school level in order to maximize the effectiveness of our education dollars. I will work to increase weighted student formula spending at the school level to 75% of our education funding, from the current 58% level.
Reform our "top-down" bureaucracy so that the system supports our schools, rather than the other way around.
I will increase funding that supports school-initiated, innovative approaches to education. The current system is a compliance-driven bureaucracy that stifles creativity and innovation.
Appoint individuals to the Board of Education who have a stake in the system's success, including those with children in public schools.
Create a system that provides financial incentives for effective principals to remain at their schools instead of seeking promotions to larger schools or to the central office for higher pay.
My track record:
My record of commitment to education is reflected in the following:
Drafted and introduced Hawaiʻi's first Charter School legislation that led to the start of "Student Centered Schools," which would later become known as Charter Schools
Helped initiate the "let's get wired program," which connected public school students to the Internet, making Hawaiʻi one of the first states in the country to do so
Helped create the first Hawaiian language immersion program in the public schools to perpetuate the Hawaiian language and teach Hawaiian history and culture
Played a key role in enacting legislation that allowed "home school" learning to become an accepted and recognized method of education.

Source: http://www.davidige.org/action-plan/
