Public Statements
Governor Joins US Climate Alliance, Will Sign Bill Aligned with Paris Agreement
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: June 2, 2017
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Ige today pledged to continue Hawaiʻi's efforts to curb and mitigate greenhouse gas emissions in alignment with the Paris agreement, and announced that he will join the newly formed United States Climate Alliance. In doing so, the governor hopes to share information and collaborate with other states that are also determined to fight global climate change.
The coalition was formed by New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, California Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr., and Washington State Gov. Jay Inslee in response to President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement.
"It is clear that the states will play a larger role in taking action on environmental issues, and Hawaiʻi will continue to be a leader in this effort. What we do now for the future of Hawai"i can make a global impact," said Gov. Ige.
Gov. Ige also announced that on Tuesday, June 6, he will sign two bills that address the threat of global climate change:
SB 559 expands strategies and mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gas emissions statewide in alignment with the principles and goals adopted in the Paris agreement.
HB 1578 establishes the Carbon Farming Task Force within the Office of Planning to identify agricultural and aquacultural practices to improve soil health and promote carbon sequestration in the state's agricultural and aquacultural sectors.
"The Hawaii State Legislature understands the importance of taking action, and I applaud its work this session to ensure that we continue to deliver the island Earth that we want to leave to our children," said Gov. Ige.
The governor's Hawaii Sustainability Initiatives and the legislature's actions are part of the Aloha + Challenge, Hawaiʻi's statewide commitment to achieving integrated sustainability goals by 2030 for clean energy, local food, natural resource management, solid waste, smart sustainable communities and green education and workforce. Progress on this joint effort, which is aligned with the Paris agreement and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, is measured on the Aloha + Challenge Dashboard.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governor-joins-u-s-climate-alliance-will-sign-bill-aligned-with-paris-agreement/
