Public Statements
Governor's Office News Release: State Highway Bonds Sale Secures $247 Million, Saves State More Than $22 Million
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Aug. 22, 2016
Location: Honolulu, HI

On Aug. 10, 2016, the State of Hawai"i successfully sold $204.485 million in Highway Revenue Bonds at the lowest interest rate in the history of the state's Highway Revenue Bond Program. The sale raised $247.581 million.
Approximately $120 million of the bond sale proceeds will be used to fund various highway projects throughout the state and about $127 million of the proceeds will be used to refinance existing state bonds. The refinancing will reduce debt service payments and save more than $22 million in interest costs.
"This financing is a tremendous success for the state, enabling continued investment in our infrastructure at a very affordable borrowing cost," said Gov. David Ige. The low interest rates achieved demonstrate bond investors' confidence in Hawai"i's economic strength and its continued practice of sound fiscal management. This is the result of years of discipline and conservative fiscal management."
Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed the state's strong bond ratings of "Aa2", "AA+" and "AA," respectively. Each rating agency also attached "stable" outlooks on their ratings, indicating secure future economic and financial trends for Hawai"i. Rating agencies cited the stability and diversity of revenue streams that are pledged as security for the bonds, as one of the key strengths of the credit. Other strengths cited include strong legal provisions, high debt service coverage, and stable revenue trends, particularly in those sectors that are less reliant on economic activity.
The marketing plan for the bonds included investor presentations, both in-person in Hawai"i and on the mainland, as well as internet-based presentations and conference calls. The extended marketing generated strong demand for the bonds from institutional investors.

Source:
