Public Statements
Governor's Essa Team to Host More Than a Thousand Participants at Saturday's Summit
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: July 8, 2016
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Ige and the Governor's Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) Team will host more than a thousand participants at the team's first public conference, Saturday, July 9.
The governor and ESSA Team have invited students, teachers, principals, parents, education, business and community leaders as well as other interested stakeholders to the one-day summit at the Hawai"i Convention Center.
The conference will offer opportunities to learn about ESSA and current best practices from inspiring thought leaders, policy experts and education leaders.
Participants will also have the opportunity to engage in a variety of forums on key education topics and issues, as well as collaborate with others on innovative possibilities for a future-focused education system in Hawai"i.
"The ESSA summit will bring together a wide variety of stakeholders who will not only learn about the opportunities that ESSA provides, they will engage in an exchange of ideas and robust discussion as we work together to create a blueprint for Hawai"i's public education system," said Gov. Ige.
"We'll hear from the state's top education leaders and from national leaders in education. But most importantly, we will hear from those who work closest to the classrooms and schools where teaching and learning take place -- our students, teachers, principals, parents, and community members," said Darrel Galera, ESSA Team chairman.
"As other states begin to implement the Every Student Succeeds Act, they are looking to Hawai"i as Gov. Ige gives every citizen a voice to help determine the future of their education system. The Governor's ESSA Summit is the first step for Hawai"i's students, principals, parents and teachers to accelerate education innovation in every classroom," said Stephen Parker, Legislative Director, National Governors Association.
The ESSA Team hopes the summit will lead to a shared vision for Hawai"i's public education, a deeper understanding of ESSA and a wide range of ideas and possibilities for a future focused public education system. The team also looks forward to collecting valuable input and feedback for preliminary design ideas as the team creates a blueprint for Hawai"i's education system.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governors-essa-team-to-host-more-than-a-thousand-participants-at-saturdays-summit/
