Public Statements
State Announces Details of Japan Airlines' New Daily, Non-Stop Service to Kona
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: May 31, 2017
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Ige, Japan Airlines and the Hawai"i Department of Transportation announced details of JAL's return to the Kona International Airport at Keāhole on Hawai"i Island. JAL is starting a new daily, non-stop service between Narita International Airport in Tokyo and the Kona International Airport.
The new service is an addition to JAL's six current non-stop flights between Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and Honolulu.
"Japan Airlines has offered continuous service to the State of Hawai"i for more than 60 years now. Over the years, JAL has played a significant role in the expansion of our state's tourism industry, economy and the cultural exchange we enjoy with Japan. We are excited about the new daily service to Kona, which is well on its way to becoming Hawai"i's second major international port of entry," said Gov. Ige.
"Japan Airlines is pleased to announce return-to-service between Narita and Kona International Airport at Keahole (starting September 15, 2017)," said Yoshiharu Ueki, President of Japan Airlines. "For over 60 years, JAL has been serving and promoting travel to the beautiful state of Hawai"i and this latest route gives our customers based in Japan and in other Asia gateways a second destination in addition to our six daily flights from Narita, Nagoya and Osaka to Honolulu."
JAL's new service is expected to result in about $84.2 million in visitor expenditures and about $9.8 million in state tax revenue, according to the Hawai"i Tourism Authority. The service will also support about 900 jobs on Hawai"i Island.
The Narita/Kona flights will operate with fully revamped JAL SKY SUITE 767 (767-300ER) aircraft and will be fitted with the airline's most current interiors. The aircraft seats 199 passengers.
The flights will depart Narita at 9:25 p.m. and arrive in Kona at 10:15 a.m. Service from Kona will depart at 12:15 p.m. and arrive in Narita at 4:00 p.m. the next day. Schedules are subject to government approval.
The new daily flights are set to begin on Sept. 15, 2017.
Photos: https://www.flickr.com/gp/govhawaii/9GNxZ3

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-state-announces-details-of-japan-airlines-new-daily-non-stop-service-to-kona/
