Public Statements
Governor's Office News Release: Governor Signs Historic Agreement With Department of the Navy to Advance Clean Energy Opportunities
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: June 21, 2016
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Ige and Assistant Secretary of the Navy (ASN), The Honorable Dennis V. McGinn signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MOU) to work on energy related issues of mutual benefit, to coordinate goals and to build partnerships whenever possible.
The MOU between the State of Hawai"i, through the Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism (DBEDT) and the Department of the Navy (DON) follows a meeting between Gov. Ige and ASN McGinn last November 2015. The parties found that the state and DON have similar energy goals relating to the reduction of greenhouse gases, the reduction of fossil fuel usage, energy efficiency, water consumption, use of renewable energy and use of alternative fueled vehicles.
The MOU aims to leverage the human and financial resources of the state and the Department of Defense towards a shared vision on energy security and self- sufficiency.
"As the single-largest customer of Hawai"i's electric utilities, the Department of the Navy and other branches of the military have an enormous impact on our economy through renewable energy and energy efficiency installations. Our collaboration is intended to accelerate our pace to 100 percent renewable energy," said Gov. Ige.
"We are pleased to formalize an already strong relationship with the great state of Hawai"i. We look forward to the many opportunities where the Department of the Navy and the State of Hawai"i can develop "win-win" solutions to energy related challenges," said ASN McGinn.
"This MOU is a testament to Hawai"i's leadership in clean energy policy and as one of the best places in the world to invest in renewable energy and efficiency solutions. This agreement will allow us to capitalize to the greatest extent possible, our combined wisdom and experience as we strive to achieve greater energy security, economic vitality and carbon reductions," Gov. Ige said.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governor-signs-historic-agreement-with-department-of-the-navy-to-advance-clean-energy-opportunities/
