Public Statements
GOVERNOR'S OFFICE NEWS RELEASE: Governor Ige Names ESSA Team Members
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Ige today announced the names of the newly selected members of the Governor's Team on ESSA -- Every Student Succeeds Act. The team will work to develop a blue print for Hawai"i's public schools that is consistent with ESSA and will maximize opportunities and possibilities for Hawai"i to transform education.
The team was selected by Gov. Ige based on recommendations and applications, including one recommendation each from Senate President Ronald Kouchi and House Speaker Joe Souki.
"Our goal was to get a good cross-section of stakeholders with diverse backgrounds and experiences. The work of the ESSA team will be an inclusive process that will involve town meetings and a summit to allow all to participate," said Gov. Ige.
Gov. Ige appointed Darrel Galera as chairman of the ESSA team earlier this month.
Here is a complete list of members:
Philip Bossert Community member, Director of Strategic & International Program, HAIS
Catherine Caine Elementary School Teacher, Waikīkī Elementary
Kamana"opono Crabbe CEO -- Office of Hawaiian Affairs
Darrel Galera Chariperson, Executive Director, Education Institute of Hawai"i
Keith Hayashi Principal, Waipahu High School
Michelle Kidani State Senator, Chair of Senate Education Committee
Brennan Lee Student, State Student council
Ann Mahi DOE -- Complex Area Superintendent Waianae/Nanakuli
Hubert Minn Member, Board of Education
Lauren Moriguchi Executive Director, Office of Early Learning
Steve Nakasato Principal, Pearl Ridge Elementary School
Alan Oshima President, CEO Hawaiian Electric Co.
Catherine Payne Chairperson, Charter Schools Commission
Amy Perruso Teacher, Mililani High School
Stacey Roberts UH Professor, Chair of Educational Administration
Program
Carol Shikada DOE -- Educational Specialist (Kaua"i)
Linda Takayama Workforce -- Director of Labor & Industrial Relations
Stephen Terstegge Parent/Military, Castle High School
Takashi Ohno State Representative
The team had its first preliminary, introductory meeting today. Meeting minutes will be regularly distributed to the Legislature, Schools Superintendent, Board of Education, Department of Education and will be posted on the governor's website at: governor.hawaii.gov.
The ESSA team will ultimately be responsible for assessing the current public school system and identifying areas of need.
An Education Summit will be scheduled this summer to give organizations and individuals the opportunity to discuss possibilities for a future-focused education system and solicit input on key recommendations to the state's ESSA plan.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governor-ige-names-essa-team-members/
