Public Statements
GOVERNOR'S OFFICE NEWS RELEASE: Governor Ige Signs Three Bills into Law, Including Affordable Care Act Waiver Proposal
By: David Ige
Date: April 25, 2016
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Ige today signed the following bills into law:
SB 2775 -- Act 13: Relating to the Affordable Care Act Section 1332 State Innovation Waiver: Authorizes the state to submit a state innovation waiver to the U.S. Health and Human Services and U.S. Treasury requesting a waiver of certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act that compromise the state's existing Prepaid Health Care Act. The bill also allows the state to implement the waiver upon approval by the federal government.
SB 2341 SD1 -- Act 14: Relating to Respiratory Therapists: Makes permanent the licensure and regulation of respiratory therapists, and creates a board for respiratory care.
"There are 200,000 people with lung disease in Hawai"i who need quality care. Licensing respiratory therapists will enable them to work outside of hospital settings such as hospices or community clinics. This law will ensure that respiratory therapists practicing in Hawai"i are held to the same high standards, guaranteeing quality of care for our people and building safer, healthier communities," said Gov. Ige.
SB 2934 SD2 -- Act 15: Relating to Driver Licensing: Enables the implementation of reciprocal drivers licenses with foreign jurisdictions by allowing the Director of Transportation to waive the written test for applicants with recognized licenses. Also requires all driver's licenses to include a photograph of the licensee, in compliance with the federal REAL ID Act.
"In this modern age of cross border commerce and cooperation, this will be instrumental in increasing tourism and bolstering our economy by making it easier for visitors to drive throughout our state," said Sen. J. Kalani English, who had been a supporter of the bill from his time as chair of the Senate Transportation committee. "Hawai"i driver's license holders will also benefit from this Act by allowing our citizens traveling in foreign countries to be able to drive abroad."

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governor-ige-signs-three-bills-into-law-including-affordable-care-act-waiver-proposal/
