Public Statements
Governor Ige Announces Nine Percent Decrease in State's Homeless Population
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: May 10, 2017
Location: Honolulu, HI

Hawai"i's homeless population has decreased for the first time in eight years. The annual Point in Time count--a census of people experiencing homelessness--showed a nine percent overall decrease in the number of homeless individuals across the state compared to the same period last year.
FULL REPORT
The 2017 count found 7,220 homeless individuals across Hawai"i compared to 7,921 in 2016.
"I commend the many partners who have gotten out of their silos, come to the table and rolled up their sleeves. Together, we are finding more efficient ways to move people off the streets and into homes. This report is proof that our collective efforts are working," said Gov. Ige. "While today's news indicates that the tide has turned, there is more to do. My administration remains focused on increasing affordable housing and reducing homelessness in the State of Hawai"i."
Hawai"i County saw the largest decrease at 32 percent, Maui County saw a 22 percent decline and Kaua"i County a seven percent drop compared to 2016. O"ahu saw a half percent increase in homeless individuals.
A link to the overview of Point in Time's full report, compiled by Hawai"i's two Continuums of Care--Bridging the Gap and Partners in Care--can be found on the governor's website at governor.hawaii.gov.
TEXT FOR GOVERNOR IGE'S SOUNDBITES:
On statewide homeless numbers:
We have been working very hard to get federal, state and county officials and service providers to really work together to reduce homelessness all across the state. (:11 seconds)
Certainly, we are beginning to get traction in the many programs that we have. As you know, we've restructured all the contracts to the service providers and really focused on placement into permanent housing which we know is what works. (:16 seconds)
On O"ahu's challenge:
I think it really is about continuing to work with our partners. We have engaged the private sector. The project at the paintball site is a good example of the city, state and private sector working together to create permanent housing in our communities. (:16 seconds)

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governor-ige-announces-a-nine-percent-decrease-in-states-homeless-population/
