Public Statements
Governor's Office News Release: Governor Ige Applauds White House Decision To Select Hawai"i's High Technology Development Corporation For Techhire Program
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: March 9, 2016
Location: Honolulu, HI

The White House announced today the next round of 15 new TechHire regions, which includes Hawai"i. President Obama selected the High Technology Development Corporation (HTDC), an attached agency to the state Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, to participate in the program. HTDC has led the effort to demonstrate Hawai"i's ability to respond quickly to its growing technology workforce.
Obama launched the bold multi-sector TechHire initiative one year ago, to empower Americans with the skills they need through universities, community colleges and nontraditional approaches that offer rapid or flexible paths to tech training.
To kick off TechHire, 21 regions, with more than 120,000 open technology jobs and more than 300 employer partners are announcing plans to work together to find new ways to recruit and place applicants based on their actual skills and to create more fast track tech training opportunities.
"We fully support the president's TechHire program, which will enable our residents to access accelerated job training opportunities and compete for higher wage earning jobs," said Gov. David Ige. "The president's selection of Hawai"i as a TechHire region is a step in the right direction and supports our 80/80 initiative to create 80,000 new technology jobs earning more than $80,000 annually by 2030."
HTDC has created a coalition of workforce organizations, employers and state and local government to develop and align training to meet the demands of employers.
"HTDC is committed to matchmaking employers and high-potential candidates by working with stakeholders to develop innovative training programs such as "coding boot camps," virtual classrooms and high-quality online courses to rapidly train workers for high-paying tech jobs," said Robbie Melton, executive director and CEO at HTDC.
"TechHire is an invaluable program to the training and development of Hawai"i's technology workforce," says Matthew Sasaki, director, Strategic Business initiatives at "ike, a partner in the TechHire Hawaii Coalition. "Over the next few years the industries that we are in will see increased demand for technology trained professionals. TechHire, in partnership with HTDC, is key to meeting this demand."

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governor-ige-applauds-white-house-decision-to-select-hawaiis-high-technology-development-corporation-for-techhire-program/
