Public Statements
Governor's Office News Release: Hawai"i Secures Federal Support For Medicaid-Housing Agency Partnership
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Feb. 26, 2016
Location: Honolulu, HI

Hawai"i's cross-agency approach to addressing homelessness and housing will be getting a boost from the federal government.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced today that the state has been selected to participate in the collaborative and highly competitive Medicaid Innovation Accelerator Program (IAP) beginning Apr. 2016. As a participant, Hawai"i will focus on expanding Medicaid involvement in and support for the state's housing and homelessness initiatives.
"We know we have to break down the work silos if we are to succeed in helping the families and individuals who most need housing, healthcare and other services. I applaud the staff across the various state departments who recognize this and are taking the initiative to make meaningful change," said Gov. Ige.
In the program operated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the Department of Human Services (DHS) Med-QUEST Division will participate in the Community Integration -- Long-term Services and Supports' Medicaid-Housing Agency Partnerships track.
Gov. Ige has prioritized a collaborative, comprehensive approach to address the complex issue of homelessness, and Hawai"i's participation in this program will be equally cooperative. Representatives from the Department of Health (DOH) and the Governor's Office on Homelessness will join the Med-QUEST Division as part of the IAP team. Other key partners include individuals from the Hawai"i Housing and Finance Development Corporation and the Hawai"i Public Housing Authority.
This program will bring technical assistance from national experts to help stakeholders in public housing, Medicaid and behavioral health come together and redesign and implement plans to cover gaps in services. The technical assistance will enable the Hawai"i team to continue using evidence-based national best practices and improve existing programs like Housing First and the supporting wrap-around services.
The Medicaid Innovation Accelerator Program began in 2014 to improve care and health for Medicaid beneficiaries and reduce costs by supporting states in accelerating payment and service delivery reforms. The program aims to jumpstart innovation in key areas while supporting states in their efforts to improve health, improve healthcare and lower costs. In addition to technical assistance, CMS will facilitate collaborative learning and advise Hawai"i's team in strategy and implementation.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-hawaii-secures-federal-support-for-medicaid-housing-agency-partnership/
