Public Statements
Governor's Office News Release: Governor Ige Joins Bipartisan Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Feb. 16, 2016
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Ige today joined with a bipartisan group of 17 governors to announce the Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future -- a joint commitment to take action to promote clean energy, clean transportation choices and a modern electrical grid.
The Accord provides participating governors -- a bipartisan coalition together representing 127 million Americans -- with a platform through which their states will collaborate, learn from one another, and leverage partnerships in energy planning and policymaking.
"Hawai"i is the most oil-dependent state in the nation, and we are committed to reaching 100 percent renewable energy use in the electricity sector by the year 2045. This accord allows us to share information about our clean energy transformation with other states and to collaborate with them on issues that are important to all of us, like strengthening energy security, reducing carbon emissions and promoting smart growth," said Gov. Ige.
"American prosperity has always depended on embracing new ideas and technologies," states the Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future. "Embracing new energy solutions allows us to expand our economy while protecting the health of our communities and natural resources. These improvements will help secure a safe and prosperous future for our country.
"We recognize that now is the time to embrace a bold vision of the nation's energy future, and to do so, states are once again poised to lead."
Democratic and Republican signatories to the Accord commit that their states will continue to diversify energy generation and expand clean energy sources, modernize energy infrastructure, and encourage clean transportation options. The seventeen participating governors represent states that vary considerably in their energy mix and policy portfolios. However, these governors have committed to working together to make transformational policy changes to secure a stronger energy future for their states and the nation.
Senior advisors to participating governors will convene shortly to discuss initial steps to pursue their shared priorities and commitments contained in the Accord.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governor-ige-joins-bipartisan-governors-accord-for-a-new-energy-future/
