Public Statements
Governor's Office News Release: Governor Ige Establishes Committee to Head 75Th Commemoration of Pearl Harbor Attack
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Feb. 10, 2016
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Ige, in recognition of the 75th anniversary of the December 7, 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor this December, has appointed retired Navy Adm. Thomas B. Fargo to lead a Blue Ribbon Committee to define and orchestrate our state's remembrance of this momentous event. This year's commemoration will be guided by the theme, "Honoring the past, inspiring the future," reinforcing our commitment to security and friendship amongst people and nations.
"I cannot think of a more capable leader than Admiral Fargo to serve as chairman of this effort, coordinating community participation with our state administration to assure a meaningful commemoration," said Gov. Ige.
Forever a symbol of American resilience and resolve to defend freedom, the annual commemoration of the attack on Pearl Harbor fosters reflection, remembrance and understanding. The 75th anniversary stands out as significant, a poignant transition from honoring surviving WWII veterans, our "Greatest Generation,' to thanking those who have followed in their footsteps.
"As we look to the future, we each have an opportunity and a personal responsibility to invest in and commit to inspiring the leaders of tomorrow, using history to help empower choices that negate fateful outcomes," said Adm. Fargo.
The State Commemoration Committee is authorized to establish the logo, theme and build the execution team required to ensure heightened awareness and visibility locally and nationally. It will also serve as a clearing house for all planned activities, creating an official calendar of events, communications plan, memorabilia portfolio, tourism packages, educational materials and more.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governor-ige-establishes-committee-to-head-75th-commemoration-of-pearl-harbor-attack/
