Public Statements
Governor's Office News Release: Historic Agreement Approved for the Operation and Management of Maui Region Health Care Facilities
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Jan. 14, 2016
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Y. Ige, the Maui Regional Board and the Corporate Board of the Hawaii Health Systems Corporation (HHSC) today signed an agreement transferring the operation and management of the HHSC Maui Region health care facilities from the state to Kaiser Permanente.
Signed Maui Transfer Agreement
Kaiser Permanente's Proposal (Large file)
Kaiser Permanente's Vision Statement
"This agreement ensures quality healthcare services and improved delivery of those services for the Maui region. The governance structure assures a continued role for the Maui community in the governance of the facilities, and revenues generated in the Maui Region facilities will be invested back into those facilities," said Gov. Ige.
The state and Kaiser will now begin negotiations for the lease of the real property and facilities. We expect the lease to close on June 30. Kaiser will begin to operate the hospitals on July 1.
All parties are working together to develop transition plans for affected Maui Region employees.
"We are honored to have been selected to operate the Maui and Lāna"i hospitals," said Mary Ann Barnes RN, president Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and Hospitals, Hawaii Region." We are committed to serving all patients, regardless of their health insurance, and working alongside medical staff from the community to bring high-quality care to the people of Maui and Lāna"i."
"This is a transformational opportunity, and the Board's decision ensures the sustainability of a comprehensive healthcare delivery system for the people of Maui and Lāna"i," said Avery Chumbley, Chair, Maui Region Hawai"i Board of Directors. "The Maui Board's decision to select Kaiser Permanente was based upon their willingness to work collaboratively with our physicians and staff to provide compassionate, quality healthcare."
"The signing of this agreement is the culmination of years of efforts by many individuals inspired by their vision for health services in their community. I applaud their efforts and feel honored to have been a small part of it," said Dr. Linda Rosen, CEO, Hawaii Health Systems Corporation. "As a physician who has worked in healthcare across the state for over 30 years, I am confident this change will bring stability and growth in healthcare jobs for employees, along with increased health services for the residents and visitors of Maui and Lana"i."
About Hawaii Health Systems Corporation (HHSC)
HHSC operates 13 facilities throughout the state of Hawai"i: East Hawaii region: Hilo Medical Center, Ka"u Hospital, Hale Ho"ola Hamakua and Yukio Okutsu State Veterans Home; West Hawaii region: Kona Community Hospital and Kohala Hospital; Maui region; Maui Memorial Medical Center, Kula Hospital, and Lanai Community Hospital; O"ahu region: Leahi Hospital and Maluhia; and Kauai region: West Kauai Medical Center, and Samuel Mahelona Memorial Hospital, in addition to two non-profit affiliates. In 1996, at a time when health care services were not widely available from private providers, the Legislature established HHSC to assume that responsibility. Twenty years later, HHSC continues to fulfill the state's promise to provide quality, hometown healthcare.
About HHSC Maui Region
The Maui Region of HHSC serves over 11,000 inpatients and sees over 45,000 people in the emergency room each year. With over 1,500 employees, Maui Memorial Medical Center is the only full-service, acute-care medical facility in the County, and the only hospital outside of O"ahu providing a full range of cardiac services, including open heart surgery and angioplasty. For more information visit MauiMemorialMedical.org.
About Kaiser Permanente Hawaii
Kaiser Permanente Hawaii has provided total health to the people of Hawaii for more than 50 years, with physicians who are members of the Hawaii Permanente Medical Group, the largest multi-specialty physician group practice in the state of Hawaii. Kaiser Permanente is dedicated to care innovations, clinical research, health education and the support of community health. Visit kp.org for additional information. Become a fan of good health with Kaiser Permanente Hawaii: Like our page at Facebook.com/KPHawaii and follow @KPHawaii on Twitter.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-historic-agreement-approved-for-the-operation-and-management-of-maui-region-health-care-facilities/
