Public Statements
Governor Ige's Supplemental Budget Honors Obligations and Improves the Lives of Hawaii's People
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Dec. 21, 2015
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Ige submitted his supplemental budget to the legislature today. The proposal covers the Supplemental Fiscal Year.
"When I ran for Governor, I made a promise to the people of Hawaii. I said that we would get our government house in order, honor our obligations and commitments and act to improve the lives of Hawaii's people. The budget I am submitting this year keeps that promise.
"This is a supplemental budget year, a year when we make targeted changes to the budget adopted last year. We are focused on areas where government can make a real difference in the lives of Hawaii's citizens," said Gov. Ige.
The budget provides additional amounts as follows:
$729 million for to improve our basic infrastructure and economic development to support the keys to our economy.
$161 million to support affordable housing so our people can find places to live.
$247 million to address critical health care needs, particularly for those among us least able to help themselves.
$248 million for education, which remains one of my highest priorities and on which a lot more needs to be done in the years that lie ahead.
In addition, substantial monies are being set aside to honor our financial commitments and to keep the state's fiscal house in order. The administration is proposing to act aggressively, while the economy is healthy, to pay down the debts we have to fully fund our employee retirement obligations.
"This is the part of my work that is not glamorous or exciting; it is however the only responsible act to take.
"I look forward to working with the legislature on this budget in the 2016 session, to a healthy exchange of views on these and other issues, and to my upcoming State of the State Address which will allow me to place this budget in the larger context of the bills we will introduce and the administrative actions we are taking," said Ige.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governor-iges-supplemental-budget-honors-obligations-and-improves-the-lives-of-hawaiis-people/
