Public Statements
Governor Ige Promotes State Economic Growth in Asia
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Nov. 13, 2015
Location: Honolulu, HI

Gov. David Ige has returned from a nine day trip to Seoul, South Korea and Tokyo Japan, where he participated in a productive series of business, government, educational and cultural discussions and exchanges.
"The relationships between Hawai"i and South Korea and Hawai"i and Japan are very important to our state, and we must continue to explore options for partnerships and exchanges as we continually seek new and innovative solutions to critical issues facing our state," said Gov. Ige.
SOUTH KOREA:
This was Gov. Ige's first trip to South Korea at the invitation of the South Korean government. Governor and First Lady Dawn Amano-Ige visited the Korean Institute of Energy Technology Evaluation and Planning, which is looking to transition South Korea's economies to clean energy.
"They are much aware of our 100 percent renewable goal that we have set for ourselves and they want to participate in the research and development side, as well as help solve the energy storage challenges that we must respond to," Ige said.
"They see the globalization of communities and see the significant value in sending faculty and students abroad. Hawai"i is the obvious choice," Ige said.
JAPAN:
Gov. Ige attended the U.S. -- Japan Council conference where he met with a number of government and business leaders and took part in a panel discussion with five governors from various provinces in Japan. The discussion focused on expanding educational, economic and cultural exchanges between our communities.
"As governors, we realize that many of the challenges that face our country can be improved by our relationships at sub-regional levels. As governors, working together, we can greatly enhance the relationship between Japan and the United States," Ige said.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governor-ige-promotes-state-economic-growth-in-asia/
