Public Statements
Governor's Office News Release: Governor's Office Goes Paperless
Press Release
By: David Ige
Date: Sept. 30, 2015
Location: Honolulu, HI

As part of the Ige Administration's effort to move state government toward a more efficient "paperless" environment, the Office of the Governor will begin using electronic signatures and will be processing all documents electronically, starting Oct. 1, 2015.
The governor's office has instructed departments to submit documents using an electronic
routing form template. Signed electronic documents will be returned to departments via email which is encrypted inflight, rather than the traditional, less efficient hard-copy process.
Since taking office on December 1, 2014, Gov. Ige has signed roughly 1,180 departmental documents.
"To the extent possible, our goal is to eventually implement a secure electronic signature process across all departments, putting an end to what has been historically a very paper heavy process," Gov. Ige said. "Some of the departments have already elected to participate in the eSign program."
In his State of the State address in January, Gov. Ige committed to reducing the amount of paper the state uses and transforming the culture of government to embrace and accelerate change.
In July, the Department of Human Resources Development (DHRD), under the direction of James Nishimoto, authorized departments to utilize electronic signatures/electronic records in lieu of existing paper forms previously developed and authorized for human resources purposes. With departmental participation mandatory, each department has been tasked with developing their respective implementation plans.
In addition, the Office of Information Management and Technology (OIMT) and the Information and Communication Services Division (ICSD), under the direction of the state Chief Information Officer (CIO) Todd Nacapuy, partnered with DHRD to evaluate potential enterprise-wide electronic signature/record solutions.
"I applaud the leadership of Director Nishimoto, CIO Nacapuy and their teams for spearheading this collaborative effort, which will enhance the operating efficiency and transition of our state government to a more sustainable working environment," Gov. Ige added.

Source: http://governor.hawaii.gov/newsroom/governors-office-news-release-governors-office-goes-paperless/
