Public Statements
Governor Takes Action on 59 Bills Including Investments in Transportation, Education Equalization
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: March 27, 2015
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Gov. Gary R. Herbert signed an additional 59 bills today, bringing the total number of bills the governor has taken action on from the 2015 General Legislative Session to 311. The Legislature passed 528 bills this session, 495 of which require action by the governor.
Among the bills signed is HB 362, Transportation Infrastructure Funding. In his State of the State address, Gov. Herbert called on state legislative leaders to address the state's long term transportation funding needs. HB 362 ensures appropriate funding will be in place to meet the growth needs and increased use of the state's transportation infrastructure. The Legislature last addressed transportation funding 17 years ago and due to inflation, the motor fuel tax had lost significant purchasing power.
With passage of HB 362, additional state funds will now be available to increase funding for the governor's top budget priority, public education. Gov. Herbert expects the Legislature will limit the growth in the current earmark for transportation funding and devote more general fund revenue to public education, a state priority that needs additional funding now.
"A strong transportation infrastructure has played a critical role in our economic growth and it will continue to do so thanks to this bill," said Gov. Herbert. "This session we took the necessary steps to address the discrepancy between the funds we have set aside for transportation and the funds we will need to support our growing population and keep commerce flowing through our state for decades to come."
The governor also signed SB97, Property Tax Equalization Amendments. This bill makes changes related to school property taxes and funding as part of the state's commitment to ensure students receive the same high-quality education regardless of where they live.



























































Source:
