Public Statements
Governor Appoints Petersen to 3rd District Court
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: March 4, 2015
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Gov. Gary R. Herbert has appointed Paige Petersen to fill a judicial vacancy on the 3rd District Court.
"I am pleased to appoint Ms. Petersen. Her unique background, impressive intellect and thoughtful demeanor will combine to make her a very effective judge," said Gov. Herbert. "I have full confidence that her extensive experience and dedication will serve the 3rd District Court and the people of Utah well."
Petersen currently serves as an Assistant U.S. Attorney with the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Utah (2012-2015) where she works in the Violent Crimes section handling all aspects of litigation involving violent crimes on Native American reservations, firearms violations, child pornography and bank robberies. She also serves as the Project Safe Neighborhood Coordinator and the Violence Against Women Coordinator.
Prior to her service at the U.S. Attorney's Office, Petersen was a prosecutor at the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague Netherlands (2009-2011). She also served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York, in Brooklyn (2003-2008).
"I am honored by the confidence Governor Herbert has shown in me. I look forward to serving the people of Utah as a district court judge," said Petersen.
Petersen received a Juris Doctor degree from Yale Law School. She graduated summa cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts in English and a Bachelor of Science in political science from the University of Utah. She also attended the College of Eastern Utah in Price, Utah, where she received an Associates Degree. Petersen is a member of the bar in Utah, Colorado and New York State. She is also admitted to practice with the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th and 2nd Circuits.
Subject to confirmation by the Utah State Senate, Petersen will fill the vacancy that resulted from the confirmation of Judge Kate Toomey as a member of the Utah Court of Appeals.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=20150304-2
