Public Statements
Governor Discusses SCOTUS Decision Not to Hear Utah Same-Sex-Marriage Case
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Oct. 6, 2014
Location: Unknown

Good morning.
As you know, this morning we received word that the United States Supreme Court decided not to hear Utah's case regarding the constitutional amendment prohibiting same-sex marriage. The Court also declined to hear same-sex marriage cases from the four other states.
I am surprised--as are many on both sides of the issue--that the Supreme Court has made the decision not to consider Utah's case, or any similar case from another state.
As I have said all along, regardless of where one stands on the issue of same-sex marriage, the people of Utah and people across the country deserve the clarity and understanding that comes with a Supreme Court decision on significant issues of our time.
While I continue to believe states should have the right to define marriage and create laws regarding marriage, ultimately we are a nation of laws and we will uphold the law.
I have instructed state agencies to implement necessary changes in light of today's news.
Dear Cabinet members,
As you are all aware, the United States Supreme Court announced this morning it will not grant certiorari (Sure-shore-ary) in the Kitchen v. Herbert case, or any other case related to same-sex marriage. The effect of this decision is that the stay that has been in place in Utah's case has been lifted and Utah's laws regarding same-sex marriage have been ruled to be unconstitutional.
We have also just received the mandate from the 10th Circuit Court finalizing its order and lifting its own stay. Accordingly, each agency should conduct business today and going forward, recognizing all legally performed same-sex marriages. Please make adjustments to any forms or other processes, as appropriate.
If there are any specific questions that arise, please consult with the Governor's Office so we can work with the Attorney General to resolve those questions.
Thank you all for your dedicated service to the citizens of the State of Utah. We trust that you and your employees will make sure this transition in the application of our laws occurs as smoothly and professionally as possible.
I anticipate a number of questions could arise as we make this transition and we have instructed state agencies to consult with my office so we can work with the Attorney General to resolve those questions.
This has been and I'm sure will continue to be an emotional issue.
However, I encourage all Utahns--regardless of their personal beliefs on this issue--to treat each other with respect and kindness.

Source: http://blog.governor.utah.gov/2014/10/governor-discusses-scotus-decision-not-to-hear-utah-same-sex-marriage-case/
