Public Statements
Gov. Herbert Taps Val Hale to Lead State's Economic Development
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: July 29, 2014
Location: Unknown

ov. Gary R. Herbert has named Val Hale as director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development. Hale will assume his new role on Mon., Aug. 4, 2014.
"Val is a man of extraordinary experience, talent and drive, with a unique background in economic development, marketing, public relations, international affairs, government and community relations," said Gov. Herbert. "I have full confidence in his capabilities and I know he is ideally suited to build on Utah's substantial economic development momentum."
Most recently, Hale served as president and CEO of the Utah Valley Chamber of Commerce, a position he held for two years. During his tenure, he led the local business community's efforts to address a wide range of issues including air quality, regional economic development, and branding initiatives.
"There is no better place in America to do business than in our great state, and there is no governor more committed to promoting economic development than Governor Herbert," said Hale. "I am honored to serve the people of Utah and the business community in this new role and I am excited to continue advancing Utah's economic vitality with GOED's impressive team and partners."
Prior to working at the chamber, Hale played a significant role in transitioning Utah Valley State College into Utah Valley University. He served as vice president of university relations (2010-12), vice president of advancement (2006-10), and assistant vice president for external affairs (2005-06). During those six years, Hale oversaw everything from legislative affairs, marketing, and public/media/community relations, to fundraising and external activities. Not only was he the university's legislative liaison, he also oversaw community relations and supervised economic development activities.
Prior to joining UVU, Hale worked 22 years in the athletic department at Brigham Young University, including as director of athletics. Hale is remembered for his prolific vision and fundraising resulting in the construction of Miller Park, the Student Athlete Building, the Indoor Practice Facility and the Legacy Seats in LaVell Edwards Stadium; all of which have significantly increased recognition and revenue for the department and university.
Hale replaces outgoing executive director, Spencer P. Eccles. Interim executive director Sophia DiCaro will remain with GOED through the transition before leaving to turn her full attention to her campaign for the Utah House of Representatives, district 31.
Hale holds a master of arts in communications from Brigham Young University. He currently resides in Orem, Utah. Hale and his wife have three children and 11 grandchildren.

Source: http://blog.governor.utah.gov/2014/07/gov-herbert-taps-val-hale-to-lead-states-economic-development/
