Public Statements
Gov. Herbert Named Vice Chair of National Governors Association
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: July 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

Utah's chief executive will play a prominent leadership role in a national organization. Gov. Gary R. Herbert was officially selected by his fellow governors as vice chair of the National Governors Association (NGA) at the NGA Summer Meeting, which concluded today in Nashville, Tennessee.
?A leadership position in the NGA gives us greater influence as I work with governors to enhance the role of states in the wide range of policies that impact our nation,? said Gov. Herbert. ?This is also a tremendous opportunity for Utah to share on a more prominent stage the success we have enjoyed in our state.?
Gov. Herbert will serve as vice chair through the next annual meeting, scheduled for the summer of 2015. At that time, he will become chair of the organization through the summer of 2016. Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, will serve as chair for the next year. The chair position rotates annually between the two major political parties, ensuring that the chair and vice chair are always from different parties.
Additional responsibilities of the vice chair include serving as chair of the NGA Center for Best Practices. Lead governors often are appointed to provide oversight and leadership on major state-oriented initiatives.
About the National Governors Association
Founded in 1908, the NGA is the collective voice of the nation's governors and one of Washington, D.C.'s most respected public policy organizations. Its members are the governors of the 55 states, territories and commonwealths. NGA provides governors and their senior staff members with services that range from representing states on Capitol Hill and before the Administration on key federal issues to developing and implementing innovative solutions to public policy challenges through the NGA Center for Best Practices.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=10165
