Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Virginia Labor Force Increases in August
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Sept. 20, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Virginia's nonfarm payroll employment increased by 13,100 jobs in August. Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, Virginia has experienced an increase of 166,600 jobs. Virginia's over-the-year employment growth was 1.9 percent in August, once again surpassing the national growth rate, which was 1.7 percent. Virginia was one of only four states to have statistically significant over-the-month increases in nonfarm payroll employment. Over-the-year employment growth in the Commonwealth of Virginia has been positive for the past 29 months.
The August nonfarm payroll employment increase is the third consecutive monthly increase and a new record high for nonfarm employment in Virginia. In addition, Virginia's nonfarm employment increase for July was revised upward by 5,800 to a gain of 8,400 jobs.
"I am pleased to see that there are more jobs available in Virginia and that more Virginians are entering the workforce," said Governor McAuliffe. "Today's announcement is a testament to the work we're doing to build the new Virginia economy. We remain committed to investments and policies that enhance our workforce system and strengthen key infrastructure to create more jobs for the citizens of the Commonwealth. With these impressive numbers, our challenge still is to modernize our education and workforce systems to ensure that we can fill the tens of thousands of high-paying jobs that remain open in our Commonwealth today."
Virginia's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was up 0.2 percent in August to 3.9 percent, but remains 0.3 percent below last August. Virginia's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate continues to fall below the national rate, which was unchanged in August at 4.9 percent. Virginia has the lowest unemployment rate in the nation among the major population states.
"Today's jobs figures show increased employment in the Commonwealth, which is the cornerstone of the Governor's mandate to build a new Virginia economy," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Todd Haymore. "It is also clear that we must continue working collaboratively with our private sector partners and General Assembly colleagues to further enhance the business climate for increased investment and job creation opportunities in the future."

Source:
