Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Commonwealth's Response to Closure of ITT Technical Institute
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Sept. 14, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today launched a new online portal offering students impacted by the recent closure of ITT Technical Institution key information about steps they can take to continue their education at another institution or seek student loan forgiveness. The closure shuttered five campuses in the Commonwealth, including locations in Salem, Chantilly, Norfolk, Virginia Beach, and Richmond. Earlier this month, ITT Tech ceased operations nationwide.
The web portal, located at www.governor.virginia.gov/ITT, offers a one-stop resource for students with questions about how to proceed in the wake of the ITT closure. The Governor has directed the Virginia State Council of Higher Education for Virginia (SCHEV), the Virginia Community College System (VCCS), and the Virginia Department of Veterans Services (DVS) to leverage every available state resource to assist these students, including the many veterans and active-duty servicemen and women who were enrolled at ITT.
"The closure of an institution like ITT Tech impacts hundreds of students and families across our Commonwealth, as well as one of the top priorities of this administration -- workforce development," Governor McAuliffe said. "We are committed to ensuring that the individuals who are affected by this closure benefit from every available state resource so they can get the skills and training they need to succeed in the new Virginia economy. Fortunately, Virginia is home to twenty-three phenomenal community colleges with open enrollment policies. Additionally, the New Economy Workforce Industry Credentials Grants included in the biennial budget can help many of these displaced students get more affordable in-demand credentials."
The inter-agency response to the ITT closure will assist students who were enrolled at the institution, as well as alumni, as they work to complete their education or benefit fully from the degree they earned.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=16755
