Public Statements
Governor Departs for United Kingdom Trade Mission
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: July 5, 2013
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Utah Governor Gary R. Herbert departed today for a trade mission to the United Kingdom. Scheduled July 7-10, the trip will focus on strengthening current business relationships, expanding Utah's global reach, and sharing best practices for a stronger workforce through innovation and education.
"Business relationships and exports are two of the biggest reasons Utah succeeds in the global marketplace," the Governor said. "This trade mission strengthens Utah's strategic economic position as we coordinate with key organizations that create thousands of Utah jobs and billions of dollars in exports."
The United Kingdom is the largest market in the world for Utah exports, totaling more than $6 billion in 2012 alone. The trade mission will help Utah businesses increase their competitiveness and continue to grow their exports in the United Kingdom's substantial market.
While on the trade mission, the Governor will meet with organizations such as Rio Tinto; Wells Fargo; Johnson Matthey; Level39, a financial/technology accelerator; Tech City Investment Organization; and The Hub, a shared entrepreneurial office provider. The Governor will also meet with leadership at United Kingdom Trade & Investment, Cambridge University, and several top-tier financial professionals.
"Utah has built one of the strongest economies in the United States, in large part due to our focus on exporting internationally," Franz Kolb, Regional Director for International Trade and Diplomacy in the Governor's Office of Economic Development, said. "As we build strong connections with thriving businesses in the United Kingdom, we will create more opportunities for Utah's businesses to expand their global outreach."
Companies participating on the United Kingdom trade mission are:
. Action Target, Inc.
. Ballard Spahr, LLP
. Echelon Biosciences
. Energy Solutions
. GPS Capital Markets, Inc.
. Kaddas Enterprises, Inc.
. Millenniata, Inc.
. Nu Skin International
. Pathwise, Inc.
. Qarat Services International
. Red Touch Media
. Rio Tinto
. Sego Strategies and Consulting
. Wells Fargo Commercial Banking
. Xi3 Corporation
. Zions First National Bank
The United Kingdom is the seventh-largest economy in the world at $2.3 trillion and is Utah's largest market for exports.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=9083
