Public Statements
Gov. Herbert Reaffirms the Importance of Hill Air Force Base
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Aug. 1, 2012
Location: Unknown

Gov. Gary Herbert is a strong advocate and defender of Hill Air Force Base because of the important role it plays both in our national defense, and in Utah's economy.
"Without question, Hill Air Force Base has been challenged and will continue to face challenges," said Gov. Herbert. "Protecting this vital interest requires collaboration between local, state and federal officials. We'll continue to work together to defend Hill Air Force Base."
Because Hill Air Force Base is one of the largest employers in the state, Gov. Herbert proactively championed a significant appropriation the base during the 2012 Legislative Session. As the chair of the Western Governors Alliance and co-chair of the Western Regional Partnership, the Governor is uniquely positioned to defend Hill Air Force Base from future cuts.
Defending Hill Air Force Base takes more than grandstanding, it requires teamwork. Gov. Herbert has worked diligently alongside Sen. Orrin Hatch and Congressman Rob. Bishop to build a strong coalition of support to protect Hill Air Force Base.
"Preserving Hill Air Force Base in Utah, is and always has been one of my top priorities as United States Senator," said Sen. Hatch. "It is not only key to our country's defense, it is an essential contributing factor to Utah's economy. Gov. Herbert, along with Congressman Bishop, has been instrumental in the mission to keep Hill Air Force Base firmly cemented in our state. The Governor's leadership in regards to the base has been invaluable and has greatly contributed in this endeavor."
With the addition of the NSA Data Center, which is currently under construction in Salt Lake County, Hill Air Force Base plays an even more critical role in our national defense.
"Such comments seem politically charged with nothing but personal political aspirations in mind," said Congressman Bishop. "Changes to our military installations, including Hill AFB, are directly attributed to President Obama's trillion dollar cuts to defense. Gov. Herbert, along with the entire Utah delegation, worked day and night in our united efforts to protect Utah's interests. Such comments are unnecessary and unconstructive."

Source: http://garyherbert.com/2012/08/gov-herbert-reaffirms-the-importance-of-hill-air-force-base/
