Public Statements
Gov. Herbert Re-election Campaign Names New Communication Director
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: July 9, 2012
Location: Unknown

Gov. Gary R. Herbert is gearing up for the general election by adding communication expertise to his team. The Herbert campaign has named Marty Carpenter as director of communication for his re-election campaign.
"The success of our economic strategy and our commitment to putting Utahns back to work is certainly something we want to focus on during the campaign," said Gov. Herbert. "Adding a communication director who understands the state economy and our job creation strategy will help us share our message with the people of our state."
Carpenter has served as director of communication at the Salt Lake Chamber, Utah's largest and longest-standing business association, for the past four years. He has taken a temporary, unpaid leave of absence from the Chamber for the duration of the campaign.
"Gov. Herbert has shown great leadership during a very challenging economic time," said Carpenter. "He has developed and implemented a strategy to position Utah to lead the nation out of the recession and the proof is in the numbers. I'm excited to play a role in the campaign."
Utah businesses have added over 25,000 jobs in the past 12 months, dropping the unemployment rate to six percent, more than two points below the national rate. The state's economy is also growing at nearly twice the rate of the nation as a whole.
"The governor has made it clear the state economy is his top priority," said Carpenter. "Utah is on the right path and we're putting distance between ourselves and our competitors. We're uniquely positioned to build on that momentum behind the governor's leadership."
Before joining the Salt Lake Chamber, Carpenter worked in television news in Tulsa, Okla. and Topeka, Kans. He is a graduate of Weber State University.

Source: http://garyherbert.com/2012/07/gov-herbert-re-election-campaign-names-new-communication-director/
