Public Statements
Issue Position: Utah as the Global Business Leader
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 1, 2012
Location: Unknown

We have a vision for our state: Utah will lead the nation as the best performing state economy in the U.S. and be recognized as a premier global business destination.
Our vision is steadily becoming a reality. Utah is being recognized by some of the world's most respected business publications and research institutions.
*Utah has been named the #1 U.S. state for business and careers by Forbes Magazine.
*Fortune Magazine recently named Utah's capitol city, Salt Lake City, as one of the 15 hottest new cities for business in the world -- one of only two U.S. cities to make the list.
*Salt Lake City was also recognized by the Brookings Institution -- a respected Washington think tank -- as having the most productive workers in the country.
*For four years in a row, Utah has been named as the state with the best economic outlook in the U.S.
*We have also been named the #1 state for economic dynamism by the Kaufman Foundation.
*We have been named the most inventive state in the U.S. by Money Magazine.
*And, we have been named the best managed state in the nation by the Pew Center on the States.
These are just a few of the numerous accolades which Utah has received as of late.
This recognition is not random, and our success is no accident. It is the result of deliberate efforts to make Utah a fertile field for business and investment.
Utah's economic development efforts are focused on four key objectives:
1. Increase national and international business
2. Strengthen and grow existing Utah businesses
3. Increase innovation, entrepreneurship, and investment
4. Prioritize education to develop the workforce of the future
As Governor, two of my most important and imperative duties are:
1. Accelerate the creation of jobs in the private sector, and
2. Prepare the state economy for success in a global future.
We live in a world where geographical, political, and linguistic boundaries are becoming increasingly irrelevant. The marketplace is becoming increasingly more global -- and that is a good thing for the states, provinces, and countries which are prepared to compete in the global marketplace.
It is clear to me that one of the surest avenues for success for Utah -- and one of the surest ways to create jobs for Utahns -- is to strengthen Utah's international partnerships. We're already seeing success on this front in our trade relationships around the globe.
Overall, Utah exported nearly $14 billion in goods in 2010. We estimate that our $14 billion in exports supports nearly 80,000 Utah jobs. So, clearly we have an incentive to increase our exports. Utah has been able to increase our exports even in a time of economic recession. Our exports are now growing at a faster rate than at any time in our history, and at a faster rate than any other state in the U.S.
In fact, Utah is the only state in the U.S. to have doubled its exports over the last five years, and I've set a goal that we double them again over the next five years.
Utah is also a safe landing zone for foreign investment. Utah has a clear and common sense regulatory structure, highly favorable tax rates, and a long history of stable and efficient governance.
Utah is currently one of only nine U.S. states with a AAA bond rating from all three of the major ratings agencies -- and we zealously protect that bond rating.
Not only does Utah offer a welcoming environment for foreign capital and the right policies to support business growth, we also have the best people for business.
Utah has one of the most highly-educated workforces in the country.
Utah has the highest percentage of people with second-language proficiency in the U.S.
We also have a young and tech-savvy population, and workers who are known for their industriousness, entrepreneurial spirit, and dedication.
Utah was also recently named as having the best quality of life of any U.S. state.
Utah has a number of established economic clusters--areas where we focus our economic development efforts--which provide investment and collaboration opportunities for companies and capital.
Those clusters include:
*Energy and natural resources
*Aviation and aerospace
*Software development and information technology
*Life science
*Financial services
*Outdoor products and recreation

Source: http://garyherbert.com/issues/utah-as-the-global-business-leader/
