Public Statements
Issue Position: Utah's Competitive Advantage
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 1, 2012
Location: Unknown

A few months ago, I had the opportunity to visit the site at Camp Williams where the National Security Agency is building its first Comprehensive National Cyber-security Initiative (CNCI) Data Center -- which will be called, simply, the Utah Data Center when it is complete.
The Utah Data Center is a nearly $2 billion investment in our country's national security infrastructure. Thousands of local construction workers have been engaged to build this 1.5 million square foot facility. You could fit 10 Cabela's stores inside a 1.5 million square foot building, just to give you some perspective.
It is the first facility in the world expected to gather and house a yottabyte -- or one thousand trillion gigabytes -- of data. More importantly, the Utah Data Center will also house up to 200 high-paying jobs. Utah was picked over 37 other locations to house the data center.
Utah's technology infrastructure, its transportation infrastructure, and its industrious, highly-educated, and bi-lingual workforce were all identified as reasons why Utah prevailed in the fierce competition to house the NSA data center.
However, perhaps the most significant factor in the NSA's choice was the cost and availability of electricity. As one NSA official put it, Utah offered "an abundant availability of low-cost power."
The Utah Data Center will require an estimated 65 megawatts of electricity for its operations -- enough electricity to power 40,000 homes or the nearby city of Riverton. One expert estimated that the NSA could end up spending up to 95% less on electricity in Utah than if it had built the data center at the NSA headquarters compound in Maryland.
Even if the NSA were willing to pay Maryland's high electricity rates, it was unlikely that Maryland could have provided the needed power in any case. The Baltimore Sun began reporting all the way back in 2006 that Maryland utility companies were having trouble keeping up with the NSA's power demands.
With the Utah Data Center, our "abundant availability of low-cost power" has brought billions of dollars of investment, thousands of jobs, and millions in ongoing revenues to our state.
The Utah Data Center is a dramatic example of the direct, tangible benefits which Utah's energy supplies bring to our state -- but it is hardly the only example.
Utah's stable and affordable energy gives us a major competitive advantage over other states, and is one of the major reasons companies are choosing to relocate and expand in our state.
Last November, Forbes ranked Utah as the best state for business for the second consecutive year. Forbes specifically mentioned Utah's energy costs -- an impressive 31 percent below the national average -- as one of the major factors in our repeated number one ranking. In order to protect Utah's energy advantage, we must secure our supply of stable, low-cost energy, and we must do it now!
My administration is aggressively promoting responsible energy development in Utah.
Last year, I released Utah's first 10-Year Strategic Energy Plan. To create my Energy Plan, I brought together a task force of the best and brightest minds from industry, academia, government, and advocacy groups. This diverse group of stakeholders was tasked with creating a framework to secure our energy independence.
The plan they created is not a static document, doomed to live on a shelf, but is designed to evolve with time. It is, however, also a document which has action items which we are already implementing, and goals which we are on our way to achieving.
And, in order to ensure that we stay on track, my Energy Task Force -- many members of which are here with us today -- continues to meet and to guide the implementation of our plan recommendations.
I would like to touch briefly on a few of the plan recommendations which we are currently pursuing.
First is to develop a strategy to keep public lands open for responsible energy development. One of the major challenges for energy development is that many of Utah's natural resources must be extracted from federally-managed public lands.
While we have made some progress in persuading the federal government to site and permit oil and gas wells, there remain great challenges ahead. This is evidenced by the fact that, just a week-and-a-half ago, bureaucrats from the Department of Interior took nearly 1.8 million acres of Bureau of Land Management land off the table for oil shale and tar sands development.
The BLM director said it wants to encourage "research and development" first -- and I am as big a fan as anyone of R&D. What the BLM is really doing, however, is asking industry to invest millions of dollars of their hard-earned capital to develop a resource which the BLM itself might never make available. The oil shale and tar sands in Utah, Wyoming, and Colorado have the potential to be one of the greatest energy resources in the world.
In his last State of the Union address, President Obama called for greater development of our domestic energy resources. How that is to be accomplished when energy producers are shut down and shut out by bureaucratic fiat remains unclear.
We have demonstrated -- in the Uintah Basin and elsewhere -- that developing our energy resources and being good stewards of the environment are not mutually exclusive propositions.
We cannot -- and we will not -- let the federal government halt responsible energy development in Utah.
I will continue to work with our Congressional delegation, our Legislature, and as Chair of the Western Governors Association, I will work with my fellow Governors to fight for our rightful access to Utah's energy resources.
I am optimistic about Utah's future. I am confident that, by working together, we can preserve Utah's competitive advantage now and into the future.
By doing so, we can also preserve Utah as the best state for business in America, and create opportunity and prosperity for Utah's citizens.

Source: http://garyherbert.com/issues/utahs-competitive-advantage/
