Public Statements
Issue Position: Economic Plan
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 1, 2012
Location: Unknown

My goal is for Utah to lead the nation as the best performing economy and be recognized as a premier global business destination. As such, I've offered four objectives to serve as the basis of our economic agenda. First, we must strengthen and grow existing Utah business, both urban and rural. Second, we want to foster more innovation, entrepreneurship, and investment.
Third, we are working toward increasing national and international business.
Finally, we're prioritizing education to develop the workforce of the future.
In only two and a half years, my administration has already made great strides toward improving the economic growth and stability in our state. We are having success by committing ourselves, unflinchingly to conservative economic principles and advocating pro-growth, pro-business policies that are benefiting Utahns across the state.
The results thus far speak for themselves:
*Unemployment has fallen from 8% to 5.7%.
*58,000 new jobs have been created across the state.
*368 burdensome business regulations have been eliminated.
How will we work toward achieving these objectives in 2012? I've put together an eight point plan for fostering continued economic growth for Utah.
1.Reduce the tax burden on Utah's employers and spur new hiring by reducing the unemployment insurance rate.
2.Assist the growth of companies in rural Utah by extending the Business Expansion and Retention program to all rural counties.
3.Double exports over the next five years by increasing outreach and technical assistance to Utah companies to expand international markets.
4.Align public sector job training and placement efforts with private sector demands and workforce needs.
5.Increase the number of Utah start-up companies by improving access to seed funding.
6.Develop a world-class, one-stop-shop for business resources by revamping the structure, collaboration and service delivery statewide.
7.Continue to recruit new companies to the state and market Utah as the "best place for business."
8.Ensure a vibrant business environment and maintain Utah's AAA bond-rating through continuous regulatory reform and fiscally prudent management of state government.
I will remain committed to these guiding principles and goals throughout my second term so that Utah may continue to be an economic leader for the rest of the nation to look toward as an example of all the things that can be accomplished when we get government out of the way of our job creators.

Source: http://garyherbert.com/issues/economic-plan/
