Public Statements
Sixth Annual Native American Summit: "We Come Together to Make a Difference"
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Aug. 26, 2011
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Governor Gary R. Herbert and Lt. Governor Greg Bell will host the Sixth Annual Native American Summit on August 30-31 at the University Park Marriott in Salt Lake City. Attendees will discuss education, economic development, housing and healthcare, issues prevalent among Utah's Native Americans.
"The Native American Summit is a valued Utah tradition where State and Tribal leaders come together to address the challenges facing Utah's Native Americans," the Governor said. "Our vision is to strengthen these partnerships, collaborate as equal partners, and keep an open dialogue in addressing issues that challenge American Indians."
Summit highlights include keynote speakers Deputy Assistant Secretary Rodger Boyd, HUD Office of Native American Programs and Paul Tsosie, Chief of Staff, Office of the Assistant Secretary - Indian Affairs, U.S. Department of the Interior. As host tribe, the Northwestern Band of the Shoshone Nation's presentation of colors will include representatives from each Tribal Nation and cultural performances to commemorate this annual event.
Lt. Governor Bell, Chair of the Summit planning committee said, "This year an unprecedented number of registrants, approximately 400, surpasses our expectations. This indication of interest and commitment supports the initial intent of the Summit: To provide best practices and education that will enable Tribal members to reach solutions in sustaining healthy and productive lives."
State and Tribal leaders expected to attend include: Governor Herbert, Lt. Governor Bell, Northwestern Band of Shoshone Chairman Jason Walker, Confederated Tribes of the Goshute Chairman Amos Murphy and Representative Madeline Greymountain, Navajo Nation President Ben Shelly, Paiute Tribe Chairwoman Jeanine Borchardt, Skull Valley Band of Goshutes Chairwoman Lori Bear, Ute Tribe of Uintah Ouray Chairwoman Irene Cuch, White Mesa Ute Chairwoman Elayne Atcitty, Ute Mountain Ute Chairman Gary Hayes, and Utah Tribal Leaders Council Chairman Kenneth Maryboy, who also serves as a Navajo Nation Council delegate.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=5391
