Public Statements
Governor Herbert Meets with Dai Bingguo, State Councilor of the People's Republic of China
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: April 12, 2011
Location: Beijing, China

Today, Governor Gary R. Herbert, and delegates of his trade mission, had the opportunity to meet with Dai Bingguo, State Councilor of the People's Republic of China. This meeting is one example of how the Governor's trade mission is building crucial relationships with Chinese officials. These relationships are critical in helping Utah businesses navigate the complex rules involved in doing business with China.
"We're here to lay the foundations for a durable relationship between Utah and China," said Governor Gary Herbert. "We have already begun to establish a number of mutually beneficial partnerships between Utah and Chinese companies, and we believe there are many more opportunities to explore. Our meetings with Chinese officials will go a long way in opening doors for Utah businesses to access the growing Chinese market."
Given the hierarchical nature of Chinese culture, it is unlikely that leaders of Utah companies would have had the opportunity to meet with a high-ranking government official like Mr. Dai without the Governor's presence on the trade mission.
The meeting with Mr. Dai will help accomplish the second of Governor Herbert's trade mission goals; which are (1) educate Utah business leaders who wish to do business in China, (2) build key relationships with Chinese government heads and members of regulatory organizations, and (3) assist Utah companies as they search for business partners. This meeting will accomplish the second goal by helping members of Utah's business community develop relationships with officials which may not have occurred otherwise.
The State Council is a cabinet-level position within the government of the People's Republic of China. Mr. Dai has been a member of the State Council since 2008 with primary responsibility for foreign affairs and national security.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=4635
