Public Statements
Utah Governor to Participate in Tourism Trade Show in China
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: April 12, 2011
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

The Utah Office of Tourism will promote the state at the China Outbound and Tourism Market (COTTM) in Beijing, China this week. The trade show coincides with Utah Governor Gary R. Herbert's Trade Mission to China. The Governor is scheduled to speak at COTTM on Wednesday, April 13, 2011, the opening day of the event. The Utah Office of Tourism, an agency of the Governor's Office of Economic Development (GOED) will have a booth at the show that runs through April 15 at the China World Trade Center. Prior to the trade show, the Governor will host invited tour operators, media, and travel industry leaders from China at a breakfast. This is the second year in a row that Utah has participated in COTTM.
"China is not only an important market for Utah businesses, but it's also one of the state's growing markets for tourism as that country's economy grows and the Chinese spend more money on leisure travel," said Governor Herbert.
More Chinese travelers are visiting this country since a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed in 2007 to facilitate group leisure travel between the United States and China and allow U.S. travel destinations to market their brands in China. In 2010, the U.S. recorded nearly 811,000 arrivals from China, an increase of about 53 percent compared to 2009. Chinese travelers to the U.S. stay about 12 days and spend an average of about $6,000 per person. Chinese visitation to the U.S. has gone up 221 percent since 2000.
"Utah has seen strong growth in the Chinese market the past couple of years and we are reaching out to expand our visitation from this important emerging market," said Leigh von der Esch, managing director of the Utah Office of Tourism, an agency of the Governor's Office of Economic Development. "We have been to China several times for trade shows and are looking forward to seeing old friends and making new ones."
Utah will be distributing its new planner in Mandarin Chinese COTTM, which can also be found online at www.travel.utah.gov/publications.
Home to five national parks, 43 state parks, seven national monuments, two national recreation areas and "The Greatest Snow on Earth(R)," Utah represents the best of the Rocky Mountains and the Desert Southwest. Visitors can enjoy easy access to Utah from the West Coast to scenic vistas, world-class recreation, shopping, dining, and Western culture.
For questions on the Utah Office of Tourism, please contact the Utah Office of Tourism at (801) 538-1370, lvondere@utah.gov, or visit us online at www.visitutah.com.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=4637
