Public Statements
Governor Herbert Leads Trade Mission to China
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: April 11, 2011
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Governor Gary R. Herbert has often highlighted Utah's export growth as the strongest in the nation, but he has also challenged Utah's international business leaders to "double Utah exports in the next five years."
To help meet that challenge, the Governor, representatives from the Governor's Office of Economic Development (GOED), the World Trade Center Utah and several dozen other business leaders are leaving on a trade mission to China, with trade mission events being held April 11-15, 2011. The trade mission will focus on matching Utah businesses with businesses in China, promoting Utah's tourism offerings, meeting with key Chinese government agencies, and showcasing the State's business friendly environment.
"As we embark on this trade mission, we know China is clearly becoming a major trading partner with many Utah companies," said Governor Gary R. Herbert. "Through our work with local business and government leaders, we will foster and strengthen potent partnerships in business, education and tourism that create jobs and opportunity for Utah's economy."
Strong trade is nothing new to Utah. Last year, $10.3 billion worth of goods sold worldwide supported 50,000 export-related jobs in 2009. Within Asia, China itself is one of the fastest growing destinations for Utah exports and a key export market for Utah companies. Exports to the Greater China area (which include Hong Kong and Taiwan) last year totaled over $2.1billion, making it Utah's second largest trading partner.
"Over 2006-2010, Utah's exports to the PRC grew 239 percent," said Brett Heimburger, Regional Director for Asia at the Governor's Office of Economic Development. "This trade mission is an important step to strengthening that relationship even further. Creating new markets for Utah's goods and services abroad means more high-paying jobs for Utahns here at home."

Source:
