Public Statements
Governor to Meet with Trade Official to Showcase Utah's Export Success
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: March 22, 2011
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Governor Gary R. Herbert is scheduled to meet with a top U.S. trade official tomorrow to showcase Utah's remarkable international export performance. In his State of the State address, the Governor called on Utah businesses to double exports in the next five years, just as they have done in the previous five years.

The President challenged the nation to do the same. So far only Utah has stepped up to meet the challenge in an amazingly successful way. Utah has over 2,500 companies who are actively engaged in international business. The number of Utah businesses who are entering the global marketplace continues to grow.

For these reasons, Mr. Suresh Kumar, Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Trade Promotion and Director General of the U.S. & Foreign Commercial Service will be in Utah to visit with Governor Gary R. Herbert and to speak on the President's National Export Initiative. While Mr. Kumar is in Utah he will see firsthand what Utah is doing to successfully foster the nexus of innovation, education, and commercialization, which the Administration considers critically important to creating globally competitive and sustainable job growth, thereby, "winning the future" for the U.S. economy.

"Our Governor's Office of Economic Development through its International Trade and Diplomacy Office along with the World Trade Center Utah has set an enviable standard for the nation to emulate," said Governor Gary R. Herbert. "We fully expect to meet and exceed our goal to double exports, well before our five year goal, because Utah businesses have shown a remarkable ability to innovate and grow in any economy."

In 2010 Utah shipped $13.57 Billion in merchandise exports to international markets. With exports making a critical contribution to Utah's economy, it is especially significant that the U.S. government announced that Utah's exports are showing a 31 % increase over the previous record set in 2009, and the State of Utah is perfectly poised to double export numbers in the next five years.

While in Salt Lake City, Mr. Suresh Kumar will use the tour to recognize several entities for achievement in exporting. He will recognize the Utah Office of Tourism, an agency of the Governor's Office of Economic Development, with a Certificate of Appreciation for Achievement in Trade, citing the organization's outstanding achievements in international promotion of Utah as a tourism destination.

"We are very excited and honored to receive this recognition," said Leigh von der Esch, Managing Director of the Utah Office of Tourism. "Our international team has worked hard with our tourism partners around the state to implement Governor Herbert's vision of seeing Utah recognized as a premiere global business destination. Our international visitors represent a significant portion of our yearly tourism visitation and in Utah, tourism is big business."

In addition, Mr. Kumar will recognize the Salt Lake City based manufacturer of lighting control systems, LiteTouch, Inc., with an Export Achievement Certificate for recent accomplishments in the global marketplace. Such recognition is presented to U.S. companies and institutions that have benefited from the export services of the U.S. Department of Commerce's Commercial Service to make their first export sale or open new foreign markets.

"The Governor has challenged us to meet the administration's goal to double Utah exports in five years, and we appreciate Suresh Kumar, representing President Obama, for his support to our State," said Craig Peterson, Director of the GOED International Trade and Diplomacy Office.

"We are pleased with our many ongoing international business successes in Utah that are benefiting the State of Utah and its citizens," said Lew Cramer, President and CEO of the World Trade Center Utah. "The World Trade Center Utah has been able to help this growth because of our many outstanding partners, including the International Trade and Diplomacy Office and the US and Foreign Commercial Service,"

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=4497
