Public Statements
Governor Herbert, Pew Center on the States and Hinckley Institute of Politics Collaborate to Modernize Voter Registration
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 13, 2011
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

The Pew Center on the States and the University of Utah's Hinckley Institute of Politics are hosting a conference Friday to discuss Pew's partnership with the state to modernize voter registration in Utah.
The conference begins at 10:30 a.m. with a Hinckley Forum entitled, "Upgrading Democracy: Modernizing Utah's Voter Registration," featuring Lt. Gov. Greg Bell; Hinckley Institute Director Kirk Jowers; David Becker, project director, Election Initiatives, Pew Center on the States; Jeff Butcher, Executive IT Architect, IBM; and county election officials. This forum will be followed by a policy lunch and working groups that will be attended by Utah state officials, Utah legislators, county officials, community leaders and academic leaders.
"We are thrilled to once again have the opportunity to expand the state's relationship with the Pew Center on the States," Governor Gary R. Herbert said. "We were very pleased when Pew recognized Utah among the best managed states in America, and we now look forward to working with Pew to further modernize our voter registration process." Following the conference, Gov. Herbert will host a dinner meeting to further discuss improving the accuracy, cost-effectiveness and efficiency of Utah's voter registration process. The dinner will take place at the Governor's Mansion and guests will include Lt. Gov. Greg Bell, the state's chief elections officer; Susan K. Urahn, managing director of the Pew Center on the States, and her colleagues; and legislative, community and academic leaders from Utah and other states.
"Thanks to Gov. Herbert, Lt. Gov. Bell and other state leaders, Utah is pioneering the way for states to dramatically increase the accuracy, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of their voter registration systems," said Susan K. Urahn, managing director of the Pew Center on the States. "We are proud to partner with Utah to protect the integrity of the democratic process and ensure that eligible voters can cast a ballot."
Kirk Jowers, director of the Hinckley Institute and acting chair of the Governor's Commission said he is honored to work with Gov. Herbert, Lt. Gov. Bell and his office and Pew in seeking ways to bolster political participation in and empower the citizens of our great state. "Pew has created a program that provides a common-sense approach to ensuring that properly registered citizens may vote while also protecting the integrity of elections by providing a safeguard against invalid or inaccurate registrations," Jowers said.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=4097
