Public Statements
State of Utah Recognized for Superior Performance in Digital Government Services
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Sept. 30, 2010
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

The Center for Digital Government has again recognized the State of Utah for superior performance in delivering the management of information technology and the delivery of digital government services to citizens.
Utah was one of only two states to receive an "A" grade in the Digital States Survey, a comprehensive study that examines best practices in state government information technology, as well as progress made by the states using digital technology to serve their citizens. Utah has consistently ranked high in the survey, and has achieved the top ranking in 2008 and now again in 2010.
Governor Gary R. Herbert has continued to stress the importance of providing government services in the most efficient and effective way possible. Utah now supports more than 900 online services in almost every area of state government.
"The Digital States recognition confirms our ongoing commitment to efficient government," Governor Herbert said. "By continuing to improve the way we deliver online services, we will continue to strengthen the Utah economy and improve the quality of life of all Utahns."
The Digital States Survey is the most complete survey of state government use of information technology, examining almost every aspect of how states use technology to improve service in each area of government. In addition to the overall grade, Utah also received the first place award in three distinct categories: Health and Human Services, Labor and Tax, and Finance and Administration.
In accepting the awards on the State's behalf, Utah Chief Information Officer Stephen Fletcher stressed the importance of the state's efforts in digital government.
"Information technology is critical to achieving more efficient goals and have already saved the state millions of dollars," Fletcher said. "We are committed to making it easier for Utah citizens to transact business with state government and to providing better access to government services."

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=3551
