Public Statements
Western Caucus Examines Administration's War on Western Jobs
Press Release
By: Devin Nunes Rob Bishop Gary Herbert John Barrasso
Date: July 13, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Today, Senator John Barrasso (R-WY) and Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), along with Members of the Senate and House Western Caucuses, hosted a bicameral hearing entitled the "War on Western Jobs."
Caucus Members and witnesses examined the Administration's policies and their negative impact on jobs and communities throughout the West.
Highlights from the Hearing
"There is a War on Western Jobs being waged by this Administration. Families and businesses throughout the West are struggling to make ends meet. This Administration's anti-business, anti-multiple use agenda threatens Western communities. It is killing jobs and undermining state and local budgets. Washington needs to help or get of the way."
- U.S. Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), Senate Western Caucus Chairman
"The most pressing issue of the day for Westerners, like most other Americans, is jobs. Our constituents need to know we are aware of the problems they are facing in today's tough economic climate. After hearing from our constituents and the witnesses who presented today, it was made clear that this Administration and the majority in this Congress have declared a new "War on the West.' We hope today's hearing helped shine some light on the negative economic impact that policies currently being pursued by this Administration are having on western jobs."
- Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), House Western Caucus Chairman
"The new level of regulation does nothing but create "analysis paralysis' on the United States' ability to address our national energy crisis. At a time that off-shore drilling has been stymied by the environmental disaster off the Gulf Coast, it is more important than ever that our federal government allows us to safely access on-shore reserves."
- Governor Gary Herbert (R-UT)
"Last year, tens of thousands of jobs evaporated when the Obama Administration, at the urging of their radical environmental allies and friends, cut-off federally-owned water to family farms in the San Joaquin Valley of California. In exchange for the forced unemployment -- which surpassed 40% in some communities -- the Obama Administration provided $400 million in government stimulus. Yet a majority of the money went to congressional districts of Democrats who supported cutting off the water. If Democrats were not so blinded by political ideology and support from radical environmentalists, logic might prevail -- it does not take $400 million in failed stimulus to recover tens of thousands of jobs. Just turn on the water. It's free!"
- Congressman Devin Nunes (R-CA)
"The administration is attacking the west on two fronts. Public land grabs and expanding regulations under the pretense of the America's Commitment to Clean Water Act. Land grabs and regulation represent an assault on the energy industry. Examples include the Grand Staircase Escalante monument and ANWR. It is also noted that the "NOT FOR RELEASE" document mentioned 14 potential monuments designations or expansions in nine states covering up to 13 million acres."
- Christopher Horner, Author and Senior Fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI)
"The EPA has several proposed rules that would affect the western states. The coal ash disposal rules would increase disposal cost of ash from $10 a ton to $150 a ton or more. The EPA is proposing NAAQS for ozone to be lowered to 0.060 ppm. If this is passed 650 of the 675 monitored counties would not comply with this regulation. These counties would lose highway funding as well as deter business that need air permits."
- William Kovacs, Senior Vice President, Environment, Technology and Regulatory Affairs- U.S. Chamber of Commerce
The hearing also featured human impact statements from residents of the West whose livelihoods have been negatively impacted by policies created under the current Administration.

Source: http://robbishop.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=197940
