Public Statements
Governor Herbert Delivers State of the State Address
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 26, 2010
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Lt. Governor Bell; President Waddoups; Speaker Clark; Members of the Utah Legislature and of my Cabinet; Utah's Supreme Court justices; the State's First Lady, my wife Jeanette; my children, my mother and my fellow Utahns; I am humbled and honored to stand before you tonight as Utah's 17th Governor to offer this annual report to our great State.
Tonight, I first pay tribute to the many Utahns who have answered the nation's call to serve. Whether it's as a soldier in Afghanistan, a Utah National Guardsman in Iraq, a humanitarian volunteer in Haiti or Ambassador Jon and Mary Kaye Huntsman in the People's Republic of China, we give them all our heartfelt thanks.
I also recognize those who put their lives on the line every day to protect ours. We suffered a great loss when Millard County Sheriff's Deputy Josie Greathouse Fox of Delta lost her life in the line of duty. Her family is here with us tonight. Please join with me as we remember a life of service and pay tribute to our entire law enforcement community, whose sacrifice helps to keep us free and to keep us safe. In my inaugural address, I spoke about the importance of, and the need for, unprecedented partnerships. This will be a continuing theme for my administration. Our success will be measured by the way we unite stakeholders from across the state, and from across the aisle. We must join together to combat the challenges we face and to seize the opportunities ahead.
Over the past four months, we have formed several such partnerships. Let me highlight two of them.
First, we created the Advisory Commission to Optimize State Government. The goal of this group is to help the state do more with less in order to benefit all. It is headed by former Governor Norm Bangerter. This diverse and bipartisan group of civic and business leaders is taking an inside-out look at all areas of the state. Their efforts will improve our already well-managed state, and, now more than ever, we must achieve new levels of efficiency in state government.

Source:
