Public Statements
Governor Herbert Appoints Roth, Low to Fill Judicial Vacancies
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Dec. 29, 2009
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Governor Gary R. Herbert has selected Third District Court Judge Stephen Roth and Wasatch County Attorney Thomas Low to serve on the Utah Court of Appeals and Fourth District Court bench, respectively.
"In his almost eight years as a trial court judge, Judge Roth has distinguished himself as an intelligent and hardworking public servant with a well-deserved reputation for fairness and integrity," Governor Herbert said.
Judge Roth was appointed to the Third District Court, which serves Salt Lake, Summit and Tooele counties, in January 2002 by former Governor Michael O. Leavitt. Prior to joining the bench, he served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney, working primarily as a trial lawyer in the civil division, and litigated complex cases for commercial clients at the law firm of Snow, Christensen & Martineau.
In announcing his appointment for the Fourth Judicial District, the Governor took particular note of Mr. Low's extensive history and professional participation in the community.
"Thomas has more than 15 years of experience practicing law in the counties where he will serve as a trial court judge," Governor Herbert said. "That, combined with his breadth and depth of experience, make him uniquely qualified for this position."
Mr. Low has served as the Wasatch County Attorney since September 2003. He has also served as a Deputy Wasatch County Attorney, where he prosecuted felony cases, and as an attorney in private practice in Provo.
The Fourth District Court serves Juab, Millard, Utah and Wasatch counties. Mr. Low has been selected to fill the vacancy created by the retirement of Judge Gary Stott on July 1, 2009. Judge Roth received his law degree from Brigham Young University. He has been an adjunct professor in the trial advocacy program at the University of Utah's S.J. Quinney College of Law. He is currently a member of the executive committee of the Safe at Home Coalition and has served as a volunteer tutor for the Guadalupe Center's adult education program.
Judge Roth will fill the vacancy created by the retirement of Judge Pamela Greenwood, who was appointed to the Utah Court of Appeals by Governor Norman H. Bangerter in January 1987.
Mr. Low also received his juris doctorate and a bachelor of arts from Brigham Young University. He was named County Attorney of the Year in November 2008, and was identified as a member of the 2009 of the 2009 Utah Legal Elite by "Utah Business" magazine. He is a member of the National District Attorneys Association and the Fourth District Court's Victims' Rights Committee, serves on the executive and advisory boards of the Wasatch-Summit Children's Justice Center, and was a member of the Utah Methamphetamine Joint Task Force established by former Governor Jon M. Huntsman Jr.
Governor Herbert's appointments are subject to confirmation by the Utah State Senate.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=2904
