Public Statements
Governor Extends Four-Day Workweek, Extends Services in Targeted Areas
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Dec. 2, 2009
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

The majority of state government will continue on the four-day workweek, with some modifications to better serve Utah citizens, Governor Gary R. Herbert announced today.
In addition to state government operating from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Thursday, one centrally located office will provide an extra 11 hours of Friday access to the Division of Motor Vehicles and Driver License Division.
"Our top priority is to provide the best possible customer service to Utah citizens," Governor Herbert said. "Utahns have told us they like the extra hours in the morning and evening, but that they also need access to these two areas of state government on Fridays, and we've listened."
While a recent Dan Jones and Associates survey indicated a majority of Utah citizens prefer Utah's four-day, 10-hour schedule, it did identify the Division of Motor Vehicles and Driver License Division as the two main areas where the initiative could be improved with service on Fridays.
Under the Governor's direction, the Utah Tax Commission and Utah Department of Public Safety will fully staff the agencies' co-located South Valley Office, 14555 South Minuteman Dr., Draper, for those needing assistance on Fridays. Operating hours at that office will be 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. beginning Feb. 12, 2010.
"This is a 'win-win-win' all the way around," the Governor said. "It is a win for the citizens, who will continue to have extended service hours Monday through Thursday, and now access to the DMV and Drivers License Division on Fridays.
"It is a win for the state's workforce, with 82 percent of employees saying they want to see the program extended, and it is a win for the state and the taxpayers in terms of cost savings and other benefits."
The Working 4 Utah initiative was launched in August 2008. Data collected during the pilot program indicate the initiative has resulted in several million dollars in cost savings and a 10 percent decrease in energy usage at state-owned buildings over the past year.
Sixty percent of those recently polled indicated the program was a good thing for Utah residents, while another 25 percent were undecided. Another 72 percent said the program was a good way for the state to save money.
In addition to providing a no-cost benefit to current state employees, the four-day workweek has emerged as a valuable recruiting tool for the state to attract qualified candidates who appreciate the opportunity for a modified workweek.
Utahns continue to have 24/7 online access to many state services through Utah's award-winning website, www.utah.gov. Also, Governor Herbert is finalizing details for a new information line that will use existing state resources and allow Utah citizens to receive personal attention on Fridays.
The state's final Working 4 Utah performance report and the results of the Dan Jones and Associates survey are available online at www.dhrm.utah.gov.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=2863
