Public Statements
Issue Position: Public Lands
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Location: Unknown

I am honored to govern a state that is blessed by an abundance of natural resources, while also being blessed with an amazing beauty and a natural wonder that we must preserve for future generations. Balancing these interests is a challenge I take very seriously.
About 2/3rds of Utah is owned by the federal government. This land cannot be privately developed, and thus produces no tax revenue for the state. For lands under federal government control, the state is given "PILT" money, or "payment in-lieu of taxes". This PILT money is a pittance compared to the revenue generated by having property in private hands.
As just 21.2% of land in Utah is owned by individuals, the imbalance of federal control hinders the state's ability to generate tax revenue, especially for our schools. To combat this harmful effect on our schools, I signed The Eminent Domain Authority Bill that calls for the state to use the power of eminent domain to claim federal lands that have created barriers to revenue producing projects that would provide needed funds to our classrooms. Additionally, federal control of such large swaths of land hinders the Utah's ability to access our abundant natural resources, preventing energy development, and limiting opportunities for economic growth. Finally, public access to public lands, and appropriate uses on those lands, has continually generated hard feelings on both sides of the issue, from those who love to access and use the land, to those who wish to protect it for future generations.
To address this Utah unique situation, and to put an end to the paralysis that comes from constant bickering surrounding these issues, I developed the Governor's Balanced Resource Council. Headed up by my Senior Environmental Advisor, Ted Wilson, the council includes prominent Utahns with valuable and vast experience in public lands issues, and differing points of view. This collaborative effort will establish sound processes to address matters that have sat stagnant for too long.

Source: http://www.garyherbert.com/issues/public-lands
