Public Statements
Issue Position: Immigration
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Location: Unknown

he failure of our nation to secure its borders is emblematic of a federal government with misplaced priorities and a fundamental misunderstanding of their responsibilities. many of the problems we face today have been decades in the making. For too long, the federal government has failed to secure our borders and has not developed a meaningful national immigration policy. The negative impact of these failures has been compounded by the reality that the federal government has not, in large part, chosen to enforce the existing laws. It would seem that if Washington can bail out banks, buy car companies, and attempt a takeover of the healthcare system, it could at least trouble itself to properly control our national borders. While we have little hope of seeing favorable action on immigration reform from a Democrat Congress and Democrat President focused on emptying the treasury, Utah can, will, and must take action.
Our broken immigration system creates societal challenges and incurs significant costs that can no longer go unaddressed. Inaction by the federal government leaves individual states little choice but to enter the immigration reform dialogue. It is up to us to find innovative solutions to our unique illegal immigration problems.
I am often asked if I support the "Arizona law." Utah is not Arizona. We are not a border state, and - while our concerns may be similar in some ways - Arizona has different challenges than we have here in Utah. We must focus on what is in our state's best interest, and how we - as Utahns - can collaborate to find appropriate solutions. I am not so concerned about the "Arizona law" as I am interested in the Utah solution.
As Governor, I want to see our state take a thoughtful and rational approach to immigration reform. Unfortunately, this is an emotional issue that some will try to politicize to our collective detriment. This is not a time for clever sound bites or political posturing. This issue is too important for that. Instead, we must search for common ground.
As a starting point, I submit some guiding principles that should be considered as we discuss immigration reform options:
1) There must be respect for the law. The Utah solution must acknowledge that U. S. Citizenship - by birth or grant - requires reverence for and adherence to the law.
2) The federal government has a responsibility to secure our borders, to enforce immigration laws, and to draft meaningful immigration policy. The federal government has failed in its responsibility, but the responsibility remains theirs.
3) There must be greater accountability from the private sector. Businesses must be responsible for establishing hiring practices that comply with the law to verify legal documentation of all workers.
4) The Utah solutions should recognize and respect the humanity of all people. Immigration reform efforts must be fair, colorblind, and race-neutral.
5) We must provide appropriate tools for law enforcement. The Utah solutions must give law enforcement officers, through resources and training, the ability to enforce the law and to keep our communities safe.
6) We must relieve the burden on taxpayers. There are significant societal costs associated with illegal immigration that simply must be addressed. Our Utah communities, and our taxpayers, can no longer be expected to bear this financial burden.

Source: http://garyherbert.com/issues/immigration
