Public Statements
Issue Position: Infrastructure
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Location: Unknown

The road to economic success in Utah requires improved and well-planned infrastructure.
This year, Reader's Digest ranked Utah's roads "5th Best Roads in America". The honor came from scrupulous planning and forethought, a process in which I was proud to play a part. With Utah's population anticipated to increase an astonishing 40% in the next fifty years, Utah can rest assured that proactive solutions are being employed to ensure our state's productivity and safety. We can and will meet the demands of future generations, and it is happening right now.
Governor Huntsman and I worked in concert with the state legislature to improve our infrastructure, successfully negotiating an end to the Legacy Parkway project, which has vastly improved mobility and commute times from Davis County. My opponent publicly opposed the Legacy Parkway in 2001, saying, "Let's not spend our money on making roads. Let's spend it on mass transit." As Governor, I understand that only through a combination of expanding the capacity of our roads, and improving upon our mass transit system, can we confront the remarkable growth to come. The Legacy Parkway was, is, and will remain a crticial component of Utah's infrastructure.
Infrastructure improvements continue, even during this difficult time, largely due to exceptional planning, and the states triple-A bond ratings. Our bond rating allows us to build roads at lower expense to taxpayers. Current projects include:
* A dramatic renovation of I-15 is currently underway in Utah County.
* Over 200 projects are currently under construction statewide. Orange barrels today mean improved capacity and convenience tomorrow.
* The expanded Express Lanes (HOV) has helped make efficient traveling affordable and accessible. Currently, an Express Pass costs a mere $8.75 and more than 6,000 passes have already been requested. Innovation in infrastructure is the way of the future, and I plan to lead those efforts.
* TravelWise, a program to promote alternatives to commuting alone, will help improve our air quality, reduce our energy consumption, reduce congestion and protect our unparalleled quality of life.

"We're not asking one person to do everything, we're asking
everyone to do something. As individuals, businesses and
organizations embrace and implement TravelWise strategies, our
roadways will function more efficiently and all Utahns will benefit."
-Utah Governor Gary R. Herbert

Source:
