Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Location: Unknown

In our global marketplace, there is no substitute for a world class education. I will continue to work with parents and educators to create a system that utilizes new ideas and uses our education dollars effectively.
All of my children are products of Utah's Public Education System and my grandchildren are currently making their way through that very system. As Jeanette and I have participated in their education, we have witnessed first-hand what many studies have shown: through grade 3, students learn to read -- after that, they read to learn. We must, as parents & teachers, keep focused on youth literacy in order to properly prepare them for a world hungry for scientists, engineers and deep thinkers.
I believe in public education wholeheartedly and I support it through action, not rhetoric. Real Commitment, Right Now.
From the time I was sworn into office with Governor Huntsman in 2005, we made education funding a priority. The largest funding increases in Utah history were implemented under our watch. Since 2005, the amount spent on public education in Utah has grown nearly $1 Billion, or more than 32%, despite the largest recession since before World War II.
During the 2010 Legislative Session, pressure was high to cut programs in order to balance the budget. While State Government received significant budget cuts in 2010 (some as high as 20%), I stood strong for education. In spite of pressure to gut the education budget, I held the line.
"Even in these tough times, we would have to say that public education is a winner, especially because of the efforts of Gov. Herbert and some of the legislators who have fought really hard." - Kim Campbell, Utah Education Association
Funding is an important component of education, and as the economy recovers and state revenues grow, I will continue the work Governor Huntsman and I started with record increases in education spending.
Accountability and Reform.
This year, I established the Governor's Education Excellence Commission to examine Utah's school system with fresh eyes; to focus on the entire menu of public education including higher education and charter schools in order to implement statewide education reform and long-range planning.
The Education Excellence Commission will "articulate the educational goals and objectives, short term, medium term and long term for public education and higher education (and) establish the education roadmap for success toward building educational excellence in Utah."
I believe that setting clear expectations from the beginning is the cornerstone to clear communication and understanding from all aspects of a child's educational experience.
No amount of money can substitute for quality teachers, committed students, involved parents, and local control of schools. Utah is blessed with both strong families and excellent educators -- we need that partnership to continue to grow if we want our children to prosper.

Source: http://garyherbert.com/issues/education
