Public Statements
Gov. Herbert Announces Utah Court of Appeals Appointments
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: May 6, 2016
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Gov. Gary R. Herbert announced today his appointment of Jill Pohlman and Judge David Mortensen to fill vacancies on the Utah Court of Appeals.
"I am confident both Jill Pohlman and Judge David Mortensen will bring the highest degrees of integrity and competence to these positions," Gov. Herbert said. "For the past ten years Judge Mortensen has been an example of what a judge should be, dedicated to the rule of law, hardworking, and fair to all parties. Jill brings an important perspective of dedication to the rule of law and professional skill and experience that will serve the state well."
Judge Mortensen currently serves as a judge in the Fourth District Court, which covers Utah, Juab and Wasatch counties, a position he has held since 2006. During that time, he also taught as an adjunct professor at the J. Reuben Clark Law School. Prior to his appointment to the Fourth District bench, Judge Mortensen was a managing member with the firm Ivie & Young. Judge Mortensen received his juris doctor degree from Brigham Young University.
"I am humbled and honored to have been appointed by Governor Herbert to serve on the Utah Court of Appeals," Mortensen said. "I look forward to meeting with the Utah Senate in the confirmation process, and if confirmed, I will be ready to work hard with the many great judges who currently serve on the court."
Pohlman is a partner in the law firm Stoel Rives LLP and previously worked as a judicial law clerk for Chief Judge David K. Winder of the U.S. District Court, District of Utah. She received her juris doctor degree from the University of Utah.
"I am sincerely grateful for the confidence Governor Herbert has shown in me through this appointment," Pohlman said. "If confirmed, I look forward to working with the other members of the Court of Appeals. I am humbled by the opportunity to serve the citizens of Utah in this position."
Mortensen was appointed to replace Judge John Pearce who was confirmed as a member of the Utah Supreme Court on December 16, 2015. Pohlman replaces Judge James Davis who retired on November 16, 2015. Both positions are subject to Senate confirmation.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=20160506-1
