Public Statements
Governor Herbert Urges Utahns to Donate to The Pamela Atkinson Homeless Trust Fund on Tax Form
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Feb. 5, 2016
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

After meeting with individuals who are experiencing homelessness today, Gov. Gary R. Herbert encouraged Utahns to donate to the Pamela Atkinson Homeless Trust Fund on their Utah income tax form.
"In every part of our state, we have individuals and families experiencing homelessness - some for a single night, and some for weeks or months," said Gov. Herbert. "Donating to the trust fund provides support directly to the services they need most, like emergency shelter, healthcare and food. Utahns are known for helping their neighbors, and that's exactly who these people are - our neighbors."
Gov. Herbert visited with some of those neighbors at the Fourth Street Clinic - one of the many service-providers that receive funds from the Pamela Atkinson Homeless Trust Fund. The clinic provides health screenings, immunizations, mental health and substance abuse services, dental and eye care, pharmacy and other services.
By donating to the Pamela Atkinson Homeless Trust Fund on their 2015 tax form this tax season, Utahns are supporting statewide efforts focused on delivering critical services for our vulnerable homeless population. All donations to the fund go directly to service organizations statewide that provide vital care and assistance to individuals and families experiencing homelessness.
The homeless trust fund is leveraged with other state funding to provide the maximum impact for the following services statewide:
Emergency services - temporary shelters, soup kitchens, day centers and outreach services
Supportive services - varying levels of case management used to help more people move into stable in housing
Housing services - rapid re­housing, transitional housing, rental assistance, onsite case management and security
The following agencies, through a competitive grant application process, have received funding through the State Community Services Office:
Bear River Association of Governments, Logan
Canyon Creek Women's Crisis Center, Cedar City
Catholic Community Services, Salt Lake City
Center for Women and Children in Crisis, Juab, Utah and Wasatch Counties
Citizens Against Physical and Sexual Abuse, Logan
Community Action Services, Provo
D.O.V.E. Center, Cedar City
Family Connection Center, Davis County
Family Promise Salt Lake, Salt Lake City
Five County Association of Governments, St. George
Fourth Street Clinic Wasatch Homeless Health Care, Salt Lake City
Friends of the Coalition, Provo
Golden Spike Outreach, Provo
Homeless Veterans Fellowship, Ogden
Housing Assistance Management Enterprise, Salt Lake City
Housing Authority of the County of Salt Lake, Salt Lake County
Iron County Care and Share, Cedar City
Mountainlands Community Housing Trust, Park City
New Horizons Crisis Center, Richfield
Community Resources and Development Division, Salt Lake County
South Valley Sanctuary, West Jordan
St. Anne's Center, Ogden
Switchpoint, St. George
The Road Home, Salt Lake City
Tooele County
Uintah Basin Association of Governments, Vernal
Uintah County
Utah Legal Services, statewide
Valley Behavioral Health, statewide
Volunteers of America, statewide
Wasatch Mental Health Services, Provo
Weber Housing Authority, Ogden
Your Community Connection, Davis County

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=20160205-1
