Public Statements
Governor Announces Work-Based Diesel Tech Program to Employ More Utahns
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Feb. 2, 2016
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Gov. Gary R. Herbert announced a work-based learning program Tuesday that will put high school students on course to find jobs in the diesel service industry.
The Diesel Tech Pathways Program provides early training and internships for high school students and guarantees them career opportunities after just one year of training at Salt Lake Community College.
Work-based learning programs like the Diesel Tech Pathways Program are the result of unique partnerships between industry and education leaders, as well as local government. Designed to increase opportunities for students by aligning their education and activities with workforce needs, such programs help build a skilled labor force.
In fact, 15 leaders in the diesel industry who would normally be competitors came together in this unique partnership to help Utah students find jobs that offer good pay and benefits.
"As governor, nothing pleases me more than initiatives which create jobs and help grow the economy by aligning what our students learn in school with the needs of the marketplace," said Gov. Herbert. "This program serves to highlight the success of the public-private partnerships that are helping make Utah's economy and quality of life the envy of the nation."
The governor also noted that the industry partners present at the news conference chose Utah as a place to expand their workforce because they see potential in the state and its people.
The Diesel Tech Pathways Program is Utah's second pathways program. The first, Utah Aerospace Pathways Program, was launched last September. Both programs provide high school students with early training and a head start in entering the workforce.
The program is important for Utah's growing workforce, the diesel technology industry and the state's economic future.

Source: http://blog.governor.utah.gov/2016/02/governor-announces-work-based-diesel-tech-program-to-employ-more-utahns/
