Public Statements
Issue Position: Self Determination and Protecting Utah from the Federal Government
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Herbert knows Utahns--not some bureaucrat in Washington, D.C.--are best positioned to handle the challenges facing our state. There's simply too much federal government overreach, too much federal red tape and too many federal mandates handed down to the states.
Today, states have to spend far too much time and far too much money fighting to hold off a federal government intent on overextending its reach into the lives of American citizens. Governor Herbert knows the government closest to the people is best positioned to serve the needs of the people.
Empowering States
As the chair of the National Governors Association, Governor Herbert was chosen by his peers to lead the charge in bringing control back to the states. The governor believes states are the laboratories that can most effectively develop and refine policies to address big issues.
Putting Utah First
Governor Herbert takes seriously his oath to uphold both the Utah and U.S. Constitutions. He fights to ensure Utahns determine what is taught in our schools and how it is taught. He works with members of our federal delegation to return local control of public land in our state. And he has taken on the environmental activists by challenging their efforts to restrict access and development of land by listing the Greater Sage Grouse as endangered.
Getting Results
Under Governor Herbert's leadership, Utah took a significant step toward establishing a more productive relationship between Utah and the federal government by signing the Utah Recreational Land Exchange Act. This landmark deal exchanges 25,000 acres of public land to the federal government for preservation and recreation with the state receiving 35,000 acres that can be used to earn revenue for our public schools, much of it through responsible energy development.
The governor has also successfully lobbied Congress to repeal burdensome No Child Left Behind mandates and return education authority to the states, where it belongs. This is a fight he will not back down from. Utah, not the federal government, must remain in control of what we teach and how we teach it. The resulting policy change was heralded by the Wall Street Journal as the "largest devolution of federal control to the states in a quarter-century."

Source: http://garyherbert.com/self-determination-protecting-utah-federal-government/
