Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

The governor firmly believes Utah's future prosperity depends on an educated workforce ready to compete with the best the world has to offer. Education is Governor Gary Herbert's top budget priority. Year in and year out, Governor Herbert has delivered for Utah students. In fact, over the last four years, he has championed more than $1.3 billion in new money for Utah students.
Local Control
Governor Herbert is unwavering in his belief that education standards should be controlled by Utahns. In 2014, Governor Herbert tasked the Utah Attorney General to conduct a study for the State School Board to investigate what control the federal government has in education standards or curriculum in our state. The investigation reaffirmed Utah is in control over every aspect of our education system, including what we teach and how we teach it.
Utah classrooms are no place for the federal government to have any influence and the governor fights to ensure that is the case today and always will be.
Getting Results
Utah faces significant challenges in education. Utah has a high number of students per taxpayer and while some are quick to point out Utah's ranking in per-pupil spending, they miss the main point: what matters most are the results. As Governor Herbert says, "it's not all about the money, but it is some about the money."
Utah students' ACT scores are among the highest in the nation when compared to fellow states where all high school juniors take the test. Utah 8th graders now are ranked in the Top Ten in the nation for reading and science. And our graduation rate has increased by 15 percent over the past seven years and is now above the national average. In fact, since Governor Herbert took office, graduation rates have increased from 75 percent to 84 percent, while dropout rates have decreased by from 23 percent to 13 percent.
Accountability
Most of our state budget goes to education and Governor Herbert believes in accountability. The governor has worked to help parents and students have a clear understanding of how their schools perform. He has worked with educators and elected officials at all levels to develop a report card that gives an accurate and comprehensive summary of their school's performance. You can find your school's report card here.
Ready to Compete and Succeed
Utah students must be held to high standards. For too long, too many Utah students finished high school only to have to spend precious time and money in college relearning concepts they should have mastered in high school. That delays graduation and costs years of higher earning for Utahns right as they are starting families. Gov. Herbert is committed to ensuring Utah students are held to the appropriate high standards that will allow them to advance their knowledge when they enter post-secondary education. He has worked with a broad coalition of community organizations, business and educators to make sure Utah has the right standards to give our students the opportunity to succeed.
My 6 Education Principles
Adequate Funding -- Our schools and teachers must have the funding and other resources they need to provide students with a first-rate education, which is why education will continue to be my number one budget priority.
Local Control of Curriculum -- Utah, not the federal government, must be in control of what we teach and how we teach it.
Local Control of Resources -- As champions for local control, we not only ensure that school administrators and boards have the resources they need, but we empower them to apply the dollars they receive where they are needed the most.
Accountability -- Benchmarks and other appropriate accountability measures are necessary to evaluate the quality of our education system and ensure that students are mastering key academic concepts.
Workforce Alignment -- Students must be prepared to be civically engaged citizens with the knowledge, creativity and technical skills necessary to succeed in an ever-changing marketplace.
Innovation -- Innovative approaches and partnerships between education, industry and other community partners are key to bettering our education system and will improve outcomes for all.

Source: http://garyherbert.com/education/
