Public Statements
Governor's 2017 Energy Development Summit to Explore "Crossroads of Innovation"
By: Gary Herbert
Date: May 2, 2017
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Gov. Gary R. Herbert has announced the sixth annual Utah Energy Development Summit, to be held May 3-4, 2017 at the Grand America Hotel. This year's theme is "Crossroads of Innovation". The two-day conference and trade show will incorporate perspectives from over 75 thought leaders across industry, government, technology and education, and will focus on building Utah's sustainable energy future.
"The state of Utah is proud to be a vital partner in promoting meaningful dialogue and public-private partnerships which lead to responsible, economically smart energy development," said Gov. Gary R. Herbert. "Now in its sixth year, the summit continues to promote pioneering solutions to some of our most immediate challenges, and these solutions may power our future communities with affordable and reliable energy in the years to come."
New to this year's summit is the USTAR Innovation Room, which will include "TED Talk" style presentations from 12 rising entrepreneurs in the fields of conventional energy, renewable energy, energy efficiency and conservation.
Conference highlights to include:
May 3, 2017
Ethan Zindler, head of Americas for Bloomberg New Energy Finance, will discuss the world's energy priorities for meeting a growing global population while addressing environmental challenges.
Ambassador of Mexico to the United States Gerónimo Gutiérrez, will detail the critical energy relations between America and its neighbors to the South.
Key officials from Germany, France, the United Arab Emirates, and Mexico will share best practices, emerging trends, and leadership strategies for succeeding in the global energy economy on a mainstage panel.
May 4, 2017
Gov. Herbert will open the summit as a featured speaker, and discuss western energy leadership on a panel with Wyoming Gov. Matt Mead and Jack Gerard, President and CEO of the American Petroleum Institute.
A series of dynamic keynotes will be delivered by leaders at Rocky Mountain Power, Dominion Questar, Vivint Solar, sPower, and Huntsman Corporation.
A new report by the Office of Energy, highlighting Utah's innovative solutions for new, clean coal technologies will be released.
During the Lunch Plenary, Gov. Herbert will honor six Energy Pioneers whose leadership has ushered Utah into a new century of opportunities.
Former vice president of Alcoa, Bill O'Rourke will discuss the ethics of leadership, followed by a mainstage panel with business developers from Rio Tinto, Bowie Resources, Stantec, Redmond Inc. and the Dwight D. Eisenhower School.
Writer and editor of The Gartman Letter, and CNBC contributor, Dennis Gartman, will close the conference discussing the latest trends in the energy markets.
Topic-specific breakout sessions will provide a breadth of discussion, including the role of energy in meeting environmental advancements.
"As the "crossroads of innovation', Utah continues in our ongoing dedication to thread key relationships across a variety of stakeholders to advance technologies and solutions which provide value locally, nationally and globally," said Dr. Laura Nelson, the governor's energy advisor. "With a robust speaker line up, three mainstage panels, and a series of forward-thinking breakout sessions, we excitedly anticipate that this summit will be our best yet."
The full agenda and registration information can be found online at GovernorsEnergySummit.com.
Media should RSVP to Meghan Stettler for event-specific credentials at meghanstettler@utah.gov.

Source: https://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=20170502-1
