Public Statements
Issue Position: Economic Strength
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

The day Governor Gary Herbert took office in August 2009, Utah's unemployment had climbed to nearly nine percent. Our state was losing jobs at an alarming rate as the Great Recession hit its peak. Utah needed strong, steady and visionary leadership to right the ship and navigate a disturbing economic trend.
By focusing on the conservative principles of keeping taxes low, eliminating unnecessary regulation, living within our means and investing in the education and infrastructure, Governor Herbert has helped Utah fulfill his vision to become the nation's leading economy and a global business destination.
As a former small business owner himself, Governor Herbert understands government doesn't create jobs, businesses do. He has consistently worked with Utah's business community to create an environment in which they can succeed. The governor ordered a review of government business regulations, resulting in elimination or significant change to nearly 400 regulations. He has safeguarded Utah's attractive tax rates and he has improved government efficiency. As he likes to say, his job is to, "keep government off your back and out of your wallet."
Over the past few years, every sector of the Utah economy has grown with one exception: government. Today, there are fewer government employees per Utah citizen than a decade ago and, across the board, state government is operating with 24 percent greater efficiency. Those are the results you get with great leadership and those are the results Utah taxpayers deserve.
Since Governor Herbert has taken office, Utah has lead the nation in total job growth and private sector job growth. With Gary Herbert as Governor, Utah will continue to lead the country in economic development and job growth because this is the right place for entrepreneurs and innovators to put their ideas to the test in the marketplace.

Source: http://garyherbert.com/economic-strength/
