Public Statements
Issue Position: Common Core
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

I will not stop fighting against the federal government trying to intervene in Utah classrooms. While this is a constant battle, let me share a few things I have done as your governor:
1) I have called for the elimination of the federal Department of Education.
2) I signed into law SB287 -- a bill that makes it illegal for the federal government to have any control over our state standards and curriculum.
3) I called for Attorney General Sean Reyes to conduct an exhaustive investigation to determine whether or not the state of Utah had ceded authority over our education system to the federal government on Common Core or any other standards. He concluded that Utah has not. We control our standards, our curriculum, our textbooks and our testing.
4) I commissioned Utah Valley University President Matt Holland and a group of experts to review our education standards. With over 7,000 public comments, this committee recommended improvements to standards and the state board has implemented many of these proposed changes.
5) I, and others, successfully lobbied Congress to repeal the No Child Left Behind Act and return education authority to the states. This policy change was heralded by the Wall Street Journal as the "largest devolution of federal control to the states in a quarter-century."
6) Assessing the progress of our students is important, but we want to maximize the time they spend learning, not the time they spend taking tests. This session, I worked with the Legislature and signed two bills into law that reduce high-stakes testing in our schools (SAGE testing).
7) Every budgetary proposal and policy decision I make is to give more authority and discretion to local school districts and local schools. I have continually advocated for increases to funding that gets to the classroom and can be tailored for local needs.
On a personal note, I have eleven grandchildren in Utah public schools. I've seen the frustration they and their parents have had over math assignments they didn't understand and teachers struggled to teach. I have expressed my dissatisfaction with the flawed implementation of new standards, especially in math. Under the Utah State Constitution and state statutes, the authority to set standards is left solely to the independently elected State Board of Education (Article X, Section 3). Curriculum is set by the respective boards of the 41 local school districts. I am grateful that the boards have listened and worked to fix earlier problems related to our standards and curriculum.
Going forward, we must all continue to work together to bring about positive change in our education system. As your governor, I am committed to making sure Utah remains in control of what we teach and how we teach it, and to giving our students every opportunity to succeed.

Source: http://garyherbert.com/commoncore/
