Public Statements
Issue Position: Water
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

Utah is known across the world as the home of the Greatest Snow on Earth. While we need snow to keep skiers happy, that snowpack plays an even greater role in our state's prosperity because it is a significant part of our water supply. Simply put: water is the lifeblood of Utah.
Ensuring the quality and quantity of Utah's water is critically important to our health, economy and quality of life. Governor Herbert recognizes the only thing that can limit Utah's growth is water. With our state's population set to double over the next few decades, investing in our water infrastructure and conserving the water we have are both essential to our future quality of life.
Conservation
Most Utahns are familiar with the line, "Slow the flow, save H2O." It's a motto that has already helped conserve our precious water resources. Last summer, concerned by drought conditions caused by an abnormally dry winter, the governor issued an executive order instituting water conservation practices for all state agencies in Utah. Today, efforts with the Utah Legislature and stakeholders across a broad spectrum, are working to continue to maintain the quality and quantity of our existing water sources, reduce water usage by 25 percent by 2025, and find new sources of water.
Investment in Water Resources
Governor Herbert is leading the development of a 50-year water strategy plan to advance conservation practices across the state, and has directed the Governor's Office of Management and Budget to develop recommendations for long-term water financing. Our state has also invested more than $15 million in the Utah Watershed Restoration Initiative since 2005 and leveraged more than $100 million in partner contributions.
The Utah Watershed Restoration Initiative has restored the health of over one million acres of critical watersheds and rangeland over the past decade, including over 473,000 acres damaged by wildfire and another 550,000 acres treated to improve forage, increase water yield and turn back invasive species.
When our pioneer ancestors made the desert blossom as a rose, they understood they could not do it without water. What was true then is also true for us today. Governor Herbert has initiated the process that will ensure Utah has the water it needs for decades to come.

Source: http://garyherbert.com/water/
