Public Statements
Issue Position: Public Lands
Issue Position
By: Gary Herbert
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

The question is, who can manage our public lands most effectively--the best-managed state in America, or the federal government that is 18 trillion dollars in debt?
Utah is blessed with some of the most iconic and breathtaking vistas and venues on Earth. People travel from all over the world to visit the state and national parks located in our state. No one loves our public lands as much as those who call Utah home, no one would take better care of them and no one else should be trusted with taking care of them.
Utahns are significantly impacted by federal decisions concerning our public lands, and Utahns must have a strong voice and role in managing those lands. We value our partnership with the federal government in areas of shared responsibility, but we will never be content to be a silent or a junior partner. Governor Herbert has consistently led the fight to give Utah greater control of public lands.
Public Lands Initiative
Governor Herbert is a strong supporter of the Public Lands Initiative championed by Congressmen Bishop and Chaffetz. He has and will continue to work with members of our federal delegation to resolve our public land issues. The protection and development of public lands does not have to be an either-or decision. We can and we should protect Utah's natural beauty and responsibly develop our natural resources.
New National Monument in Utah
From the time President Bill Clinton dedicated Grand Staircase Escalante as a national monument (an announcement he made while standing in Arizona and without prior warning), Utahns have rightfully been leery of presidents looking to make news by tying up even more of our state's public lands. Governor Herbert vigorously opposes any national monument designation that does not have the support of local officials and the community.
Public Lands Exchange
In 2014, Governor Herbert approved a 60,000-acre land exchange, calling it a win-win for Utah's public lands and Utah's public schools. The deal transferred 25,000 acres to the BLM, and included portions of Westwater Canyon, waterfront areas along the Colorado River and iconic red rock landscapes such as Corona Arch, in exchange for 35,000 acres of land more suitable for development, which will now be managed by the Trust Lands Administration to generate revenue, much of it through energy development. Revenue derived from these newly acquired trust lands benefit our public schools, and will add to the $1.7 billion Permanent School Fund.

Source: http://garyherbert.com/public-lands/
