Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Disaster Unemployment Assistance Now Available for Counties Affected by Hurricane Hermine
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 30, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that individuals who have lost jobs as a result of severe storms and flooding during Hurricane Hermine may be entitled to Disaster Unemployment Assistance. On September 28, 2016, the federal government approved Governor Scott's request for a major disaster declaration for Citrus, Dixie, Hernando, Hillsborough, Leon, Levy, Pasco and Pinellas counties, clearing the way for use of Disaster Unemployment Assistance funds for individuals affected by the storm.
Gov. Scott said, "Following Hurricane Hermine, I spoke with many Floridians and business owners who were severely impacted by the storm, and Disaster Unemployment Assistance will provide much-needed assistance to these individuals and their families. We will continue to provide every available resource to our communities as we work together to rebuild and recover from this storm."
Disaster Unemployment Assistance, administered by the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, assists individuals who become unemployed as a direct result of a federally declared disaster and who do not qualify for regular reemployment assistance benefits. The program also covers self-employed individuals, owners of farms and ranches, farm and ranch workers, as well as fishers and others who are not normally covered by state reemployment assistance benefits.
DEO Executive Director Cissy Proctor said, "Disaster Unemployment provides help to individuals who lost their job through no fault of their own because of Hurricane Hermine. This assistance will bridge the gap for individuals as they get back on their feet."
Applicants must file a request for disaster benefits by October 31, 2016. Applicants must be legal U.S. residents and must have been working in or residing in Citrus, Dixie, Hernando, Hillsborough, Leon, Levy, Pasco and Pinellas counties.
The individual must: (1) have become unemployed as a direct result of the disaster or (2) be unable to reach the place of employment as a direct result of the disaster or (3) have been scheduled to begin work and does not have a job or is unable to reach the job as a direct result of the disaster or (4) have become the major support for a household because the head of the household has died as a direct result of the disaster or (5) be unable to work because of an injury caused directly by the disaster.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/10/04/gov-scott-cat-4-matthew-to-impact-florida-thursday/
