Public Statements
Governor, Florida Cabinet, Approve 21,000 Acre Purchase to Buffer Eglin Air Force Base
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 20, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott and the Florida Cabinet today approved the purchase of nearly 21,000 acres of conservation land as part of a partnership between the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, The Trust for Public Land and landowner M.C. Davis after Florida was awarded $1.75 million from the U.S. Department of Defense as part of the 2013 REPI Challenge.
Governor Scott said, "Florida's conservation land program is one of the most robust in the country and we can smartly use taxpayer dollars to improve our environment while showing that Florida is the country's most military friendly state. We are thankful for the investments of MC Davis, The Trust for Public Land and the U.S. Department of Defense as we continue to purchase land that will ensure our military can properly train to protect Florida families and our important habitats."
The Department is slated to contribute $10.2 million of Florida Forever funds, Davis has discounted the property by $7 million, the U.S. Department of Defense will contribute $1.75 million as part of the 2013 REPI Challenge and Eglin Air Force Base will contribute $550,000.
The Readiness and Environmental Protection Integration Program funds cost-sharing partnerships for the military with state and local governments and private conservation organizations to address the need for compatible land use and conserved natural landscapes in support of military readiness. Projects require at least a 1:1 funding match.
DEP Secretary Herschel T. Vinyard Jr. said, "The Department has prioritized buying conservation land that protects springs, water quality and water quantity sources and buffers military areas. The purchase of 21,000 acres buffering Eglin Air Force Base accomplishes many of the Department's conservation goals. Under Governor Scott's leadership, this purchase shows that smart land purchases with committed partners can make a difference."

Source:
