Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott: We Need Answers to Navigator Program's Privacy Concerns
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 16, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today Governor Rick Scott announced that he has asked the Office of Insurance Regulation to brief the Florida Cabinet on the privacy concerns surrounding the Obama Administration's use of taxpayer-funded organizers called "navigators" to sign up Floridians on federal health exchanges. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius was in Tampa yesterday to announce $7.8 million in grants for Florida. The "navigator" program has been the subject of privacy concerns because the taxpayer-funded "navigators" will be collecting large amounts of consumer information for use in a federal database.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We know that the "navigators' will be taxpayer-funded employees hired to collect personal and financial information from Floridians. What we do not know is how this information will be shared among federal agencies or if the federal government will also distribute it to outside groups. We know that navigators are not hired to determine eligibility for insurance but they will have Floridians' personal data that will then be run through federal databases, including the IRS and agencies that track immigration status.
"Many questions remain unanswered, including: who will get the completed applications? Will Floridians know of every entity that receives their information? If the federal exchange is delayed, where will the applications go until it is operable? To ensure we are doing everything possible to protect Floridians' personal information, we will discuss these issues at the next Florida Cabinet meeting in Miami on August 20. I added this item to the official cabinet agenda today.
"These are very serious matters, and the many questions surrounding this program must be answered quickly."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/08/16/governor-rick-scott-we-need-answers-to-navigator-programs-privacy-concerns/
