Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott: Chilean Trade Mission a Success
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 7, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today announced that the mission participants on the trade mission to Santiago, Chile have reported more than $39 million in expected sales. These results come from 19 Florida companies that were matched one on one with potential Chilean clients during the mission.
Governor Scott said, "During last month's trade mission to Chile, we focused on connecting Florida businesses and organizations with opportunities to work with Chilean companies. Because of these new opportunities, Florida's economy and the families of our state will benefit. I am excited to announce that our trade mission to Chile was a success and these expected sales totals will only continue to grow. It is clear from these numbers that when it comes to trade missions -- it's working."
During the trade mission, major Chilean companies announced their relocation to the Sunshine State:
Crystal Lagoons, a Chilean company, announced that they are establishing their corporate headquarters in Miami.
The Atton Hotel, a major Chilean hotel chain, announced that they will be building their first hotel in North America in Miami and will create approximately 170 new jobs.
Florida Advance Magnet Lab and the Advanced Innovation Center of Chile signed a joint venture that will accelerate the commercialization of projects such as offshore wind turbine generators, aero propulsion and space exploration applications.
Governor Scott also met with the Association of Chilean Fruit Exporters (ASOEX) and discussed opportunities to increase the use of Florida ports as entry point for Chilean fruit exports to the United States.
Secretary of Commerce and President & CEO of Enterprise Florida Gray Swoope said, "The partnership opportunities available to companies that attend these missions are unmatched. Florida's small businesses have a unique advantage over those in other states due to our proximity to and strong relationships with Latin America and the Caribbean. Missions like the one to Chile capitalize on that advantage by putting our business leaders face-to-face with those international companies and organizations."
Manny Mencía, senior vice president of Enterprise Florida's International Trade Division said, "The Governor's trade mission to Chile was highly successful from every measure. The new market Florida exporters that participated generated export leads that will result in millions of dollars in sales and we found great interest on the part of Chilean companies in investing and doing business in Florida."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/06/07/governor-rick-scott-chilean-trade-mission-a-success/
