Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Signs Legislation to Provide Foreclosure Relief
Press Release
By: Don Gaetz Joe Negron Rick Scott William Weatherford Seth McKeel
Date: June 4, 2013
Location: Unknown

Following the Florida Cabinet meeting today, Governor Rick Scott signed SB 1852 which appropriates funding Florida received from the National Mortgage Settlement. The money will go to several state entities for various housing and foreclosure related programs and services. Additionally, this funding will help those who have been harmed by foreclosures in Florida.
Governor Rick Scott said, "As Florida's housing market continues to improve, I applaud the work of Attorney General Pam Bondi and the Florida Legislature for helping Floridians. This settlement will provide important relief to Florida homeowners and enable our state to get its fair share of the relief being provided across the country. Funding in this legislation will also help various affordable housing initiatives and will help make affordable housing more available to Florida families. We are working to ensure that Florida's economy continues to grow, and Florida's housing market continues to improve."
Attorney General Pam Bondi said, "When I entered the $25 billion National Mortgage Settlement, it was imperative that the proceeds be used to address Floridians' housing-related needs. I thank Governor Scott and the Florida Legislature for working with me to ensure that the remaining $200 million of Florida's portion of the settlement be used in accordance with the settlement agreement, and I thank Governor Scott for signing this important legislation."
Senate President Don Gaetz said, "We are grateful to Attorney General Pam Bondi for her work to secure more than $8 billion in relief for Floridians and to Senator Gardiner for his leadership in ensuring the $200 million which the Florida Legislature had the responsibility to appropriate is focused on improving the availability of affordable housing options for thousands of persons with disabilities, elders, and extremely low income Floridians."
House Speaker Will Weatherford said, "The Florida House was proud to work with Attorney General Bondi to provide relief to struggling homeowners in Florida. These funds will go a long way in revitalizing communities impacted by foreclosures, providing additional options for affordable housing and helping Florida's housing market rebound stronger than ever. I appreciate Representative Hooper's leadership on the issue and for helping to fulfill such an vital need during Florida's housing recovery."
Senator Joe Negron said, "I applaud Governor Scott for signing this important legislation that will bring relief to many homeowners across the Sunshine State."
Representative Seth McKeel said, "By signing this legislation, Governor Scott continues to fight for Florida families. This legislation is a great victory for Florida."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/06/04/governor-rick-scott-signs-legislation-to-provide-foreclosure-relief/
