Public Statements
Letter to Secretary of State Kenneth W. Detzner - Renewable Fuel Standard Act
Letter
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 31, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today signed HB 4001 into law.
Below is Governor Scott's signing message:
May 31, 2013
Secretary Kenneth W. Detzner
Secretary of State
Florida Department of State
R.A. Gray Building
500 South Bronough Street
Tallahassee, Florida 32399
Dear Secretary Detzner:
By the authority vested in me as Governor of the State of Florida, under the provisions of Article III, Section 8, of the Constitution of Florida, I do hereby approve of and transmit House Bill 4001, enacted during the 115th Session of the Legislature of Florida, during the Regular Session of 2013 and entitled:
An act relating to the Florida renewable fuel standard act
Florida's Renewable Fuel Standard Act, signed into law in 2008, is a state mandate on Florida businesses that is duplicative of the Federal Renewable Fuel Standard and inconsistent with the efforts to reduce the regulatory burdens that have helped Florida create over 330,000 new private sector jobs in the past two years. It is my intent to continue to allow free market sources and lower taxes, to make Florida the number one state in which to run a business, innovate, and create jobs.
Consistent with this intent, it is important that this legislation signal to businesses around the world that Florida welcomes their investment and jobs. Although I do not agree with the strategy of imposing a state mandate to support a specific technology or industry sector, I will continue to support efforts that will bring energy-related innovation, competition, investment, and jobs to Florida. Many energy and fuel-producing companies have already invested in Florida. They offer high-tech, high-wage jobs to Floridians, and we welcome more of them to compete in our state.
For the reasons stated above, I hereby sign into law House Bill 4001.
Sincerely,
Rick Scott
Governor

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/05/31/governor-rick-scott-signs-hb-4001-into-law/
