Public Statements
Building Up Florida Manufacturing Victory Tour Continues at PortMiami, Parametric Solutions and Frito Lay
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 14, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott continued the "Building Up Florida Manufacturing Victory Tour" with a fourth stop at PortMiami where he highlighted the important partnership between manufacturing and Florida's Ports to job creation. The tour celebrates the Governor's successful legislative agenda where the sales tax on manufacturing equipment was eliminated. Governor Scott also visited other Florida manufacturers today, including Parametric Solutions in Jupiter and Frito Lay in Orlando.
Governor Scott said, "Growing jobs is our top priority and that is why it has been so critical that we eliminate barriers on manufacturers. Our ports and manufacturing have an important partnership. Our manufacturers utilize our transportation infrastructure like our seaports, airports, rail lines and our trucks to get manufactured goods to their customers. By building up manufacturing in our state, we create more jobs and opportunities for families working in these industries.
Manufacturers in Florida have been disadvantaged for too long because we were one of few states that taxed the purchase of manufacturing equipment. With this legislation, Florida is now on a level playing field. Thanks to our efforts, Florida manufacturing and Florida families won. I look forward to signing this bill into law."
Senator Joe Negron said, "I applaud Governor Scott for his commitment to job creation and for championing this legislation that will expand manufacturing in the Sunshine State. Our manufacturers will finally be on a level playing field."
Senator Alan Hays said, "I am proud to join the Governor in supporting this important piece of legislation that will lead to more job growth. This legislation will also enhance the diversification of Florida's economy. There's no reason Florida should be behind the national average in manufacturing jobs, and this law will level the playing field."
Senator Andy Gardiner said, "Manufacturing plays a tremendous role in employing Florida families and we are pleased that Governor Scott made a commitment to build up Florida manufacturing. I was pleased to join Governor Scott today at Frito-Lay for this important victory."
Representative Jose Oliva said, "For our communities to grow and be successful, we have to provide families with good, sustainable employment. That's why I was so proud to support the Governor's initiative eliminating the tax on manufacturing equipment. This will support Florida businesses, so families in our community can get access to quality jobs."
Representative Eddy Gonzalez, Chairman of the Miami-Dade Delegation said, "Nothing empowers a family more than a job -- and that's why I was proud to support Governor Scott's initiative eliminating the tax on manufacturing equipment. Companies will have more options when they want to expand, and they'll have more flexibility to hire more employees. That's great news for our community and for the state as a whole."
President of the Manufacturers Association of Florida Al Stimac said, "I am thankful for Governor Scott's hard work in fighting for Florida jobs. The tax on manufacturing equipment targeted small businesses, and made Florida less competitive, which undoubtedly hurt job growth. This legislative victory will send a strong message to communities outside Florida that we're open for business."
Sherry Reeves, Executive Director of the Manufacturing Association of Central Florida said, "I applaud the Governor for making job creation a top priority -- and with his legislative victory in eliminating the sales tax on manufacturing equipment -- our community looks forward to growing Florida manufacturing businesses and attracting new ones."
President and CEO of the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County Kelly Smallridge said, "Getting the sales tax on manufacturers was a big win for Governor Scott, but an even bigger victory for all the Floridians who will be able to get jobs as a result. We thank Governor Scott for his dedication to getting Florida back to work."
President of Parametric Solutions Inc Catherine Barre said, "PSI is honored to have Governor Scott return to Parametric Solutions Inc as part of his Building Up Florida Manufacturing Victory Tour. PSI is in the process of adding additional manufacturing, instrumentation and assembly equipment to our Florida facility. The elimination of the Florida manufacturing equipment tax will enable PSI to add additional capabilities and jobs to the Florida economy. Thank you to Governor Scott!"

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/05/14/building-up-florida-manufacturing-victory-tour-continues-at-portmiami-parametric-solutions-and-frito-lay/
