Public Statements
Paychecks for Patriots Hiring Fairs Partner Veterans with Major Florida Employers
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 8, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott has proclaimed Friday, May 10, as Paychecks for Patriots Day in Florida. The Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, the Florida Department of Veterans' Affairs, Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) and the Florida National Guard are partnering with Dollar General and more than 115 private employers throughout the state to connect Florida's veterans and their families with immediate career opportunities through ten Paychecks for Patriots events this Friday.
Governor Scott said, "Paychecks for Patriots Day is a valuable opportunity to demonstrate support for veterans transitioning to civilian life with a new job. We all owe our veterans a debt of gratitude, and we want every veteran to have an opportunity to pursue their dreams here in Florida."
At ten locations throughout the state on Friday, May 10, Paychecks for Patriots will match veterans and their families with employers who value knowledge, skills, and attributes attained during military experience.
"DEO is honored to participate in the Paychecks for Patriots program to ensure every Florida veteran has the opportunity to find a job that fits his or her skills and interests," said Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio. "As we work to support Florida's military families in various capacities, these events will help Florida's veterans find career opportunities that strengthen their families, communities, and Florida."
"The Paychecks for Patriots initiative is another reason Florida is the most veteran-friendly state in the nation," said Mike Prendergast, executive director of the Florida Department of Veterans' Affairs. "Nearly a quarter of a million veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan claim the Sunshine State as their home. While many are returning to Florida colleges and universities using the Post 9/11GI Bill, others are looking for meaningful employment. This 10-city veteran hiring initiative goes a long way to helping our returning veterans."

Source:
