Public Statements
Governor Scott and Hertz Announce Corporate Headquarters Relocation
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 7, 2013
Location: Fort Myers, FL

Governor Rick Scott and Hertz today announced that the company will locate its worldwide headquarters to Estero, Florida from Park Ridge, New Jersey. Over a two-year period, up to 700 jobs will be relocated starting later this year, while more than 2,000 personnel will remain in New Jersey and the metro-New York City area, including up to 150 employees who currently work in Park Ridge. All other Park Ridge employees will be able to retain their current positions at the new headquarters in Ft. Myers, scheduled to be completed in early 2015.
Governor Rick Scott said, "It is great news for Florida that Hertz has chosen Lee County to relocate its corporate headquarters. These 700 jobs, along with opportunities for continued growth in Southwest Florida, will make a big impact across the Sunshine State. We are proud to say that Florida is not just a top destination for vacationers, but for growing businesses from all around the world. We have a diverse and highly-skilled workforce, no personal income tax and pro-business attitude. We have had an incredible economic turnaround in the past two years with the creation of nearly 300,000 private-sector jobs. Our economic formula in Florida to create jobs and opportunities for families to succeed is working and it is clearly why Hertz chose to relocate here. We worked closely with Hertz to make this relocation a reality and we look forward to their continued growth in the Sunshine State."
Hertz made the decision to relocate to Florida following its recent acquisition of the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, which is currently headquartered in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Consolidating the corporate offices to one location will allow for increased efficiencies and cost synergies across the company. Additionally, access to the Florida travel and tourism population will position the company for long-term growth.
Hertz Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mark P. Frissora said, "After our recent business expansion, we have been looking for the right location to blend Hertz and Dollar Thrifty head office employees. Florida is the center of the U.S. travel and tourism industry -- this move enables us to be closer to leisure and business customers, as well as many travel and association partners. As part of this move, we will open off-airport and retail car sales stores on our headquarters campus, which will enable us to experiment with new services and monitor customer satisfaction first hand. Additionally, Florida provides ready access to a vast and diverse talent pool, including 3,000 of our own employees, as we grow our businesses. Lee County, on the Southwestern Gulf Coast of Florida, is a well-established travel destination with tremendous growth potential, with easy access to other leading tourism markets including Orlando, Miami/Fort Lauderdale and Tampa/St Petersburg."
Secretary of Commerce and president & CEO of Enterprise Florida, Inc. Gray Swoope said, "This is an incredibly important accomplishment for Southwest Florida as well as the entire state. When a Fortune 300 company chooses to move its headquarters to a state and create so many high-wage jobs, it shows confidence in the state's ability to compete. Hertz recognizes the very favorable business climate the Governor has created and they want to grow here. I want to thank the Governor, Lee County, the Lee County Industrial Development Authority, Workforce Florida, the Southwest Florida Workforce Development Board, and the Fort Myers Regional Partnership for working with EFI in making this project a success."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "When a corporate headquarters of a Fortune 300 international company like Hertz chooses Florida, it is a recognition that Governor Scott's pro-growth economic policies are working. Because of Hertz's decision to relocate to Florida, many families in Lee County will have new opportunities for economic prosperity.
Hertz and Dollar Thrifty have more employees in Florida than in any other state except California, and Florida rents more cars per capita than any other state. Hertz chose Lee County because of its diverse community appeal, work force availability and accessibility. The company worked closely with Governor Rick Scott, Enterprise Florida as well as other state and county government and business leaders throughout the decision-making process.
About The Hertz Corporation:
Hertz operates its car rental business through the Hertz, Dollar and Thrifty brands from approximately 10,400 corporate, licensee and franchisee locations in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa, the Middle East and New Zealand. Hertz is the largest worldwide airport general use car rental brand, operating from approximately 8,800 corporate and licensee locations in approximately 150 countries. Hertz is the number one airport car rental brand in the U.S. and at 111 major airports in Europe. Dollar and Thrifty have approximately 1,580 corporate and franchisee locations in approximately 80 countries. Hertz is an inaugural member of Travel + Leisure's World's Best Awards Hall of Fame and was recently named, for the thirteenth time, by the magazine's readers as the Best Car Rental Agency. Hertz was also voted the Best Overall Car Rental Company in Zagat's 2012/13 U.S. Car Rental Survey, earning top honors in 14 additional categories, and the Company swept the global awards for Best Rewards Program and Best Overall Benefits from FlyerTalk.com. Product and service initiatives such as Hertz Gold Plus Rewards, NeverLost®, and unique cars and SUVs offered through the Company's Adrenaline, Prestige and Green Traveler Collections, also set Hertz apart from the competition. Additionally, Hertz owns the vehicle leasing and fleet management leader Donlen Corporation and operates the Hertz On Demand car sharing business. The Company also owns a leading North American equipment rental business, Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation, which includes Hertz Entertainment Services.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/05/07/governor-scott-and-hertz-announce-corporate-headquarters-relocation-2/
