Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces Anthem Education Expansion in Fort Lauderdale, 70 New Jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 30, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today announced that Education Training Corporation (Anthem Education) has chosen Fort Lauderdale for the expansion of its newly consolidated North American headquarters. The expansion will create 70 jobs paying annual salaries averaging more than $50,000 as well as retain 85 positions.
The company also will invest more than $300,000 in additional capital expenditures for construction, renovation and leasehold improvements and the purchase of computer equipment, office furniture, fixtures and other property.
Governor Scott said, "Florida is known for educational excellence and job creation -- and Anthem Education's expansion in Ft. Lauderdale is more proof of our success. With more than 320,000 jobs created in the last two years, our strategies of cutting taxes, paying down debt, and investing in K-12 education are paving the way for more opportunities for Florida families."
Anthem Education CEO David Knobel said, "Greater Fort Lauderdale provides us with an expansive area that welcomes growing businesses and a rich and diverse pool of talent for future growth. We appreciate the assistance provided by Governor Scott, Enterprise Florida, the City of Fort Lauderdale and the Greater Fort Lauderdale Alliance CEO Council in our selection process."
Florida Secretary of Commerce Gray Swoope, who serves as President & CEO of Enterprise Florida, the state's lead economic development organization, also acknowledged the partnerships that helped move Anthem Education's expansion forward. "I thank the local, regional, corporate and government partners who share our vision to heighten Florida's stature as a business state. By bringing this project to fruition, we are maintaining a business climate that favors and supports the establishment of headquarters operations," said Swoope. "Even more, companies like Anthem Education are developing the talent and skill base needed for tomorrow's economy."
"The expansion of Anthem Education is further evidence of the revitalized economic climate in the Sunshine State," said Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio. "This new headquarters will not only add jobs to the community and value to the local economy through capital investments, but will also contribute to Florida's excellent talent pipeline."
Anthem Education operates as a post-secondary educational institution with 34 campuses in 14 states. The company operates its campuses under the names Florida Career College, Anthem College, Anthem Career College, Anthem Institute, The Bryman School of Arizona and Morrison University.
Anthem Education has operated in Florida since 1982 and has grown and expanded its schools and programs to meet the needs of students and businesses and currently offers career-focused programs in various subject areas, such as allied healthcare, information technology, technical trades and others at each of its 12 locations throughout Florida. In April 2012, Education Training Corporation acquired Arizona based High-Tech Institute Holdings, Inc., (doing business as Anthem Education) with 22 campuses in 14 states.
On the local front, Fort Lauderdale Mayor Jack Seiler and Greater Fort Lauderdale Alliance CEO Council Chairman Ray Ferrero Jr. shared their views on Anthem Education's expansion and its impact.
"We are very happy to welcome Anthem Education to our city for their new and expanded North American headquarters location, and we look forward to seeing them continue to grow their base of operations here. We wish them all future success," said Seiler.
As per Ferrero, "We are delighted that Anthem Education has chosen to locate their consolidated North American headquarters in Greater Fort Lauderdale. Their decision ratifies the CEO Council's mission to market Greater Fort Lauderdale as a premier location for corporate and international headquarters, and we look forward to celebrating their growth and success in the years to come."
To support Anthem Education's expansion project, the state and the City of Fort Lauderdale approved Anthem Education for a Qualified Target Industry (QTI) tax refund totaling of $350,000 ($280,000 from the state and $70,000 from the city). Companies approved for QTI do not receive funds until jobs goals and other contractual requirements are met.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/04/30/gov-scott-announces-anthem-education-expansion-in-fort-lauderdale-70-new-jobs/
