Public Statements
Governor Scott Signs Landmark Legislation to Prepare Students for College and Careers
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 22, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott signed Senate Bill 1076 that will ensure Florida students are prepared for college and careers and have the necessary skills to compete for jobs in a competitive global economy. Governor Scott was joined today by Senate President Don Gaetz, Speaker of the House Will Weatherford, legislators and education and business leaders from across Florida.
Governor Rick Scott said, "This legislation transforms our education system and is an important step to ensuring the success of our future workforce who are students in our classrooms today. As I travel the state, families tell me they worry about three things: getting a great job, a quality education, and keeping their cost of living low. This legislation helps us take a giant step forward toward that goal.
"This legislation, coupled with my recommended $1.2 billion increase for K-12 education and historic total of $480 million to support $2,500 pay raises for our classroom teachers, will ensure Florida is a national leader in education. I appreciate the hard work and commitment by President Gaetz and Speaker Weatherford, along with their collaboration with my office, to get this bill passed for our students."
The legislation takes steps to making sure Florida students have the skills for the jobs of the 21st century and ensure they can effectively compete for jobs in an ever competitive global economy. This legislation impacts Florida K-12 public school students by:
- Creating a pathway to a diploma that can be meaningful for students going on to college or a career by demonstrating the skills required for high school graduation, including earning national industry certifications in over 200 different professions, occupations and careers. This means students will be able to graduate from high school and have the qualifications to get a great job.
- Requiring financial literacy to be taught in our high schools so students have a better understanding of the risk of debt. Middle school students will now have the opportunity to study entrepreneurship.
- Teachers will be rewarded for student success by giving bonuses to teachers that provide direct instruction toward the attainment of industry certifications. This legislation also increases bonuses for teachers whose students achieve high scores on IB and AP exams.




Source:
