Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Floridians Need to be Ready for Hurricane Season
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 1, 2017
Location: Miami, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott joined Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly along with federal, state and local emergency response officials at the National Hurricane Center in Miami to kick off the 2017 hurricane season. Governor Scott also highlighted Florida's disaster preparedness sales tax holiday which begins tomorrow June 2 and runs through June 4. The disaster preparedness tax cut holiday, signed into law by Governor Scott on May 25, 2017, will help Floridians save money as they purchase potentially lifesaving supplies. Hurricane season extends from June 1 through November 30, and represents the period when hurricanes are most likely to form in the Atlantic Ocean.
Governor Scott said, "Last year our state was impacted by two hurricanes for the first time in over a decade and luckily, we did not see damage like many of our neighboring states. Last week, I was proud to sign a tax cut package that includes a disaster preparedness sales tax holiday so families and businesses have additional opportunities to get the supplies they need to be prepared. With the 2017 hurricane season beginning today, I encourage all Floridians to take advantage of this weekend's disaster preparedness sales tax holiday and ensure your family is safe."
U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly said, "It only takes one hurricane to change your life. If you -- or a close family member -- live in an area prone to hurricanes or inland flooding, now is the time to prepare. Know your risk and get prepared by downloading the FEMA App, making sure your flood insurance policy is up to date, and checking out ready.gov for tips on what to do before, during, or after a storm."
Below outlines qualifying items for the disaster preparedness sales tax holiday:
Batteries (AA-cell, C-cell, D-cell, 6-volt, or 9-volt batteries)
for $30 or less
Nonelectric coolers for $30 or less for $20 or less
Reusable ice $10 or less
Portable self-powered radio, two-way radio, or weather band radio for $50 or less
Tarpaulin or flexible waterproof sheeting for $50 or less
First-aid kits (always exempt)
Ground anchor systems or tie-down kits for $50 or less
Gas or diesel fuel tanks for $25 or less
Portable generators for $750 or less

Source:
