Public Statements
Governor Scott Attends Spain-U.S Chamber of Commerce Luncheon; Recognizes Trade Commissioner with Governor's Business Ambassador MedalGovernor Scott Attends Spain-U.S Chamber of Commerce Luncheon; Recognizes Trade Commissioner with Governor's Business Ambassador Medal
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 9, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott addressed the members of the Spain-U.S. Chamber of Commerce at a luncheon in Miami. The Governor highlighted the important, bilateral relationship between Florida and Spain, and awarded Trade Commissioner Mario Buisan with the Governor's Business Ambassador Medal. Florida's partnership with Spain has also been emphasized by the current celebration of the 500th anniversary of the Discovery of Florida by Juan Ponce de Leon.
Governor Scott said, "I am thankful to the Spain-U.S. Chamber of Commerce for their contributions towards expanding the mutually beneficial business and cultural ties between Florida and Spain. The record of Spanish-based companies that expand and relocate to Florida demonstrate our effort to create a positive business climate is working."
Florida is currently home to over 300 Spanish companies from various industries, investing $6.5 billion in Florida and creating 18,000 jobs. Governor Scott added, "Spanish companies have a significant impact on Florida's economy and are a reason why Florida has created over 290,000 private sector jobs since I took office."
"In a moment that Spain, like others in Europe, faces economic challenges, we have witnessed a remarkable increase in the volume of Spanish investments in the US and, specifically, in Florida," said Fernando Perez-Hickman, chairman of the Spain-US Chamber of Commerce. "Spanish companies value greatly Governor Scott's efforts to create jobs, ensure a friendly business climate and promote the high quality and diverse culture of Florida's workforce."
Mario Buisan is the Trade Commissioner for the Embassy of Spain in Miami. Buisan is responsible for commercial promotion of Spanish goods into the US market and strengthening business relations and Spanish investments in the Miami area. He previously served as Director General of Information and Investments at the Spanish Institute for Foreign Trade and as Deputy Director General of International Affairs at Banco de España.
The Spain-U.S. Chamber of Commerce is a private, non-profit organization, recognized by the Spanish Government, dedicated to enhancing commercial ties between Spain and the U.S. The Chamber was founded over thirty years ago, and its Miami location provides the perfect opportunity to target U.S., Caribbean and Latin American markets.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/04/09/governor-scott-attends-spain-u-s-chamber-of-commerce-luncheon-recognizes-trade-commissioner-with-governors-business-ambassador-medal/
