Public Statements
Gov. Scott Applauds $3.5 Million FDOT Grant Tt Jacksonville Aviation Authority For Flightstar Expansion
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 15, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott applauds the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) for awarding the Jacksonville Aviation Authority $3.5 million for infrastructure development to allow Flightstar Aircraft Services to expand operations at Cecil Airport. The $3.5 million Economic Development Transportation project grant, awarded March 1, supplements FDOT's previous commitment of $10 million in Strategic Intermodal System (SIS) funding for the project. The remaining $17 million is provided by Flightstar and the Jacksonville Aviation Authority, for a total of $30.5 million.
Governor Scott said, "Today's announcement is another example of the targeted investments that we are making to help Florida's economy continue to grow. Since December 2010, Florida has created nearly 200,000 private-sector jobs and our unemployment rate is at a record low. Our economy is clearly back on track because of the policies that we have put into place over the last two years. It's working. I applaud FDOT for their commitment to economic development."
FDOT Secretary Ananth Prasad said, "Under Governor Scott's leadership, aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul were identified as a targeted industry. The Florida Department of Transportation is pleased with our partnership with the Jacksonville Aviation Authority that has led to Flightstar Aircraft Services decision to remain a Florida-based aviation company and expand their workforce at Cecil Airport."
In December 2012, Flightstar Aircraft Services announced it would remain at Cecil Airport in Jacksonville and expand its existing aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul facility. Flightstar currently has 700 permanent employees and over 200 contractors. With the new hangar, the company will be adding approximately 300 permanent jobs and 100 contractors.
The $30.5 million project includes the construction of a new 113,000 square foot hangar. Office space will occupy 10,000 square feet and warehousing and shop space will occupy 32,000 square feet. Additional improvements to taxiways, aprons and related transportation facilities will allow Flightstar to meet its expansion needs while remaining at Cecil Airport, a Florida spaceport facility.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/gov-scott-applauds-3-5-million-fdot-grant-tt-jacksonville-aviation-authority-for-flightstar-expansion/
