Public Statements
Governor Scott: Visit Florida Anticipates Tourist Spending to Reach Record Levels
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 7, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, during a meeting of the Florida Cabinet, Governor Rick Scott announced that according to preliminary estimates released by VISIT FLORIDA, visitors to the Sunshine State spent a record $71.8 billion, an increase of 6.8 percent over 2011. This represents a record year of spending in 2012 by tourists in Florida, exceeding the previous highs of $67.2 billion in 2011 and $65.5 billion in 2007.
Governor Scott said, "Today's news from VISIT FLORIDA demonstrates "It's Working.' Travelers to Florida spent an additional $4.6 billion in 2012, marking the second consecutive record year for visitor spending in the Sunshine State. Florida's tourism industry is critical to Florida families as it serves as a vital source of revenue to the state and a key driver of employment -- and that's why our Florida Families First Budget commits $75 million to VISIT FLORIDA, so we can better grow jobs and opportunities for Florida families."
As the state's official destination marketing organization, VISIT FLORIDA is responsible for serving the citizens of Florida through the growth and development of the tourism industry. VISIT FLORIDA creates innovative cooperative marketing programs that enhance the industry's ability to successfully promote the Florida tourism product across the U.S. and around the globe.
"Last year, visitors spent over 500 million vacation nights and nearly $72 billion in the Sunshine State," said Will Seccombe, President and CEO of VISIT FLORIDA. "While it's still very early in 2013, all indications are that VISIT FLORIDA is well positioned to build on the previous two years' momentum as we strive to make Florida the No. 1 travel destination in the world."
To view additional Florida tourism data, go the Research page on VISIT FLORIDA's media website.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/governor-scott-visit-florida-anticipates-tourist-spending-to-reach-record-levels/
