Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott: Northrop Grumman's New Florida Centers of Excellence Mean More Than 1,000 New Jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 4, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott released the following statement today after Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE: NOC) announced that the company is designating five centers of excellence across the country, two of which will be in Florida. Northrop Grumman announced that it is creating these centers of excellence to improve its strategic alignment with its customers' need for increasingly innovative and affordable products, services and solutions. It will establish a Manned Aircraft Design Center of Excellence in Melbourne, Florida, which will include work currently being done at other company locations. Northrop Grumman also announced that they will establish an Aircraft Integration Center of Excellence in St. Augustine, Florida.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We are grateful for Northrop Grumman's existing presence in our state and that they have chosen to establish two new centers of excellence here -- one in St. Augustine and one in Melbourne. Northrop Grumman's investment in Florida means more than 1,000 new jobs for our state and builds on our strong record of job creation over the last two years. Florida is already ranked number two in the nation for businesses to grow and succeed, and we won't stop until we are number one. More companies continue to move here from other states like New York and California because Florida is committed to cutting taxes and eliminating regulations to help job creators succeed at creating more jobs."
Gray Swoope, Secretary of Commerce and president and CEO of Enterprise Florida said, "Northrop Grumman's continued investment in the state is a testament to Florida's competitiveness and supportive business climate. The importance of having strong strategic partners cannot be overstated: Governor Scott, Enterprise Florida and the professional economic development teams in both communities and the region made it possible to move quickly and to put together a competitive case for Northrop Grumman to grow its presence in Florida."
Northrop Grumman is a leading global security company providing innovative systems, products and solutions in unmanned systems, cybersecurity, C4ISR, and logistics and modernization to government and commercial customers worldwide. Please visit www.northropgrumman.com for more information.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/governor-rick-scott-northrop-grummans-new-florida-centers-of-excellence-mean-more-than-1000-new-jobs/
