Public Statements
Gov. Scott Highlights Investments To Support Human Trafficking Victims
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 13, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott held a press conference with victim advocacy organizations to highlight investments in the Florida Families First Budget to support victims of human trafficking. The recommended budget includes $1.5 million to provide trafficked youth with a safe home, $2.5 million to enhance the efforts of the Florida Council Against Sexual Violence to fight abuse and nearly half-a-million to support state and local law enforcement in the areas of high tech crime and Electronic Surveillance Support Teams. The Governor also highlighted the Department of Juvenile Justice's "Victim Identification Pilot Project," -- a program that's the first-of-its-kind in the nation that identifies trafficking victims and coordinates support services.
Governor Scott said, "As a father of two daughters and a grandfather, I take the health and safety of Florida's families seriously. We've made progress in making our communities safer and FDLE recently reported that Florida is at a 41 year crime low. The Department of Corrections also announced the state's recidivism rate has decreased from nearly 34 percent to nearly 27 percent over five years.
"While these figures demonstrate that we are improving in our efforts to protect Florida families, the reality is that even one violent crime is devastating. We are committed to making our communities even safer."
Human trafficking is a form of modern day slavery that affects more than 27 million people worldwide, including an estimated two million children who are trafficked for child labor and sexual exploitation. In the United States, the Polaris Project advocacy group estimates approximately 100,000 kids are currently trapped in the commercial sex trade of human trafficking.
To better protect children, Governor Scott signed the Safe Harbor Act and HB 7049 to help fight human trafficking by increasing the prosecution of criminals who exploit our children and also provide better services to the victims who are rescued from this heinous crime.

Source:
