Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott: Secretary of State's Report on Election Improvements Contains Steps to Help Restore Voter Confidence
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 4, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott made the following statement on Secretary of State Ken Detzner's report with recommendations to improve the state's election system, following the 2012 election. Sec. Detzner's final report on recommended election improvements is available here.
Governor Scott said, "This report details three key reforms our state needs to improve our election system and restore voter confidence. It recommends changing current law to shorten the length of the ballot, add more days for early voting -- from eight to 14 days, including the option for supervisors of elections to open polls on the Sunday before Election Day, and increase the size of voting locations to better accommodate voters.
"When I first asked Sec. Detzner to begin interviews with elections officials and local leaders following the 2012 election, we knew that improvements needed to be made. Following the November election, many Floridians were frustrated with the inefficiencies, confusion, and delays they found at some voting locations. Most counties did not experience any significant difficulties or delays. These recommendations by the Secretary of State are important reforms that can be done at the statewide level. I have also asked Sec. Detzner to continue to work with those counties who need additional assistance or support to improve their systems, outside of statewide election law changes.
"Our goal is to ensure our election system is fair and accessible so every Floridian has the confidence that their vote counts. I am grateful for the detailed work of Sec. Detzner in forming these recommendations over the last few months, the supervisors of elections who gave him input, and all those who participated from every level of government. I look forward to working with the Legislature as we turn these three key recommendations into law over the weeks and months ahead."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/governor-rick-scott-secretary-of-states-report-on-election-improvements-contains-steps-to-help-restore-voter-confidence/
