Public Statements
Governor Scott Highlights Economic Growth
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 18, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott highlighted that the Cape Coral-Ft. Myers Metropolitan Statistical Area's (MSA) December 2012 unemployment rate of 8.0 percent is its lowest since the June 2008 rate of 7.9 percent. The MSA's rate declined 2.2 percentage points from the year ago rate of 10.2 percent, and was tied for the fourth largest drop among all metro areas over the year.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We're seeing continued economic growth in communities throughout the state, highlighted by an improving housing market and a decline in unemployment. I'm committed to recruiting new businesses to Florida and providing our state's skilled and talented workforce with more opportunities to find employment, provide for their families and pursue the American dream."
Representative Matt Caldwell, Chair of the Lee County Delegation, said, "Governor Scott's focus on job creation is paying off. Southwest Florida's economy continues to grow, which is great news for the families in our area."
Housing starts in the Cape Coral-Ft. Myers metro area were up in November 2012 (the latest available data) over the year (+6.2 percent).
The Manpower Employment Outlook Survey for the first quarter of 2013 indicated that the Cape Coral-Ft. Myers MSA was expected to be the strongest job market in the nation with 27 percent of employers expected to add staff. Manpower's calculations of a 23 percent net positive hiring outlook was well above the year-ago outlook of 17 percent.
Also in December, Southwest Florida Works along with the state's other 23 Regional Workforce Boards reported more than 42,000 Floridians were placed in jobs. An individual who receives employment and training assistance through a One-Stop Career Center and finds a job within 180 days is deemed a placement and may be reported by a regional workforce board. Of these individuals, 12,372 previously received Reemployment Assistance. In 2012, more than 426,000 Floridians were placed in jobs, with nearly 111,173 former claimants finding employment.
Florida's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate dropped to 8.0 percent for the month of December -- down 0.1 percentage point from last month and the lowest since November 2008. The December 2012 rate was 1.9 percentage points lower than the year-ago rate of 9.9 percent. Since December 2010, the state's unemployment rate has dropped 3.1 percentage points.
To view the December 2012 monthly employment data, visit:
www.floridajobs.org/labor-market-information/labor-market-information-press-releases/monthly-press-releases.
The Florida Department of Economic Opportunity combines the state's economic, workforce and community development efforts. This new approach helps expedite economic development projects to fuel job creation in competitive communities. For more information, including valuable resources for employers and job seekers, please visit www.floridajobs.org.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/01/18/governor-scott-highlights-economic-growth-3/
