Public Statements
Governor Scott Breaks Ground on Port Everglades Intermodal Container Transfer Facility
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 17, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor also commits $13 million in 2013 for more port dock spaceGovernor Rick Scott today broke ground on the nation's only combined on-port international and domestic cargo rail facility at Port Everglades. The Governor also committed $13 million to begin work on the Southport Turning Notch Extension project which will add more dock space for Port Everglades. The new Intermodal Container Transfer Facility (ICTF) at the Port will lead the way for Florida to attract new international business to the state through its seaports and support the creation of an estimated 135,000 jobs for Florida families. Today's announcement comes on the heels of the Governor's commitment earlier this week for $36 million of state funding for JAXPORT.
Governor Scott said, "Today's announcement is another example of Florida's commitment to our world class port system being a driver of our economy. This $13 million investment in our port system is one of the reasons why Florida's economy continues to move in the right direction and creates more jobs and opportunities for Florida families."
Florida East Coast Railway (FEC) Chief Executive Officer Jim Hertwig said, "The new ICTF will allow the FEC to efficiently and effectively deliver superior transportation service between South Florida and the Southeastern United States. Upon completion, this new facility enables South Florida to be in a competitive position for additional freight and jobs. This facility will be able to handle the additional cargo of larger ships that are coming out of Europe today and when the Panama Canal expansion is complete and beyond."
Port Everglades Chief Executive & Port Director Steven Cernak said, "An ICTF on Port Everglades property will not only ensure our seaport remains competitive with other U.S. East Coast gateways, but will give our port a cost and time-to-market advantage over many of these gateways, thereby putting more and more South Florida residents to work as a result of the additional business opportunities it will generate. This unique public--private partnership is consistent with Governor Scott's efforts to expand support to Florida's ports, leveraging private sector capital to complete the project."

Source:
