Public Statements
Gov. Scott Highlights Importance of Manufacturing Jobs at Honeywell
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 16, 2013
Location: Unknown

A week to date after Governor Rick Scott announced his commitment to eliminating sales taxes for investments in manufacturing equipment, he visited Honeywell to highlight the importance of building up Florida manufacturing jobs. Governor Scott was joined by Joe Wright, Director of Military Space, Henry Digdigan; Site Leader for Clearwater Defense and Space Florida, and the rest of the Honeywell executive team on a private tour of the facility, and took part in a meet and greet with company employees.
"To grow jobs for Florida families and strengthen our economy, we must remove barriers to manufacturing. Today, there are 17,500 manufacturing companies in Florida that employ over 300,000 Florida families. The fact that Honeywell has created 2,700 of those job opportunities for Florida families is great," said Governor Scott. "I am confident that eliminating barriers for manufacturers like Honeywell in this coming legislative session will allow them to grow even more and give more Florida families the ability to live their version of the American Dream."
"Honeywell applauds Governor Scott's efforts and commitment to manufacturing in Florida -- ultimately positioning Florida as an economic development leader," said Joe Wright, Director of Military Space at Honeywell. "We support Governor Scott's vision for Florida and will continue to support his efforts that aid the manufacturing sector."
Honeywell is a global, Fortune 100 company that invents and manufactures technologies that address challenges linked to issues such as safety, security and energy. They employ approximately 132,000 individuals worldwide, with 2,700 of them based in Florida. The Clearwater facility visited today employs 1,600 Florida families.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/01/16/gov-scott-highlights-importance-of-manufacturing-jobs-at-honeywell/
