Public Statements
Gov. Scott Underscores Importance of Eliminating Barriers to Build Up Florida Manufacturing Jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 16, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today Governor Rick Scott visited Coastal Steel to highlight his commitment to eliminating sales taxes for investments on manufacturing equipment. Governor Scott was joined by President of Coastal Steel, Dale Coxwell, as well as Dave Komives, Business Development Director, on a tour of the facility which covers more than 40,000 square feet on 19 acres of land in Brevard County.
"We want more manufacturing jobs in Florida. That's why I announced last week that we will pursue legislation this year to eliminate taxes on the purchase of new manufacturing equipment. We know that when manufacturers invest here, they grow here and that means more jobs for Florida families," said Governor Scott. "I am thoroughly impressed with the facility and with the work done here at Coastal Steel. By investing in their employees and taking risks in developing industries, Coastal Steel has brought innovative work to Florida and created 100 jobs for Florida families."
In a press conference last week Governor Scott introduced his Building Up Florida Manufacturing Jobs proposal, intended to benefit manufacturing companies like Coastal Steel.
"We were honored to have Governor Scott visit our facility today," said Dale Coxwell, President of Coastal Steel. "His commitment to growing manufacturing in Florida is a commitment to helping business, like ours, continue to grow and succeed in a global economy."
Coastal Steel, a nationally recognized steel erection and fabrication company was established in 1976 by founder Phillip Coxwell, son of current President, Dale Coxwell. Governor Scott awarded Phillip with the "Governor's Business Ambassador Award for his ability to recognize the passion and individualism of his family members that allowed Coastal Steel to grow into a successful multi-faceted, third generation family business in Florida.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/01/16/gov-scott-underscores-importance-of-eliminating-barriers-to-build-up-florida-manufacturing-jobs/
