Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott Highlights U.S. Gas & Electric's Job Creation in Miami
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 29, 2012
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott was joined by Douglas Marcille, Director, President and CEO of U.S. Gas & Electric ("USG&E"), at the company's headquarters to mark USG&E's creation of 32 jobs in recent months and its commitment to creating 300 more in the next year.
Governor Rick Scott said, "With the largest unemployment drop in the nation, Florida's economy is headed in the right direction and we will continue our efforts to keep the cost of doing business low so companies like USG&E can continue to expand in the Sunshine State -- and provide more opportunities for Florida families."
"Among the many advantages of our dynamic, global community are the diverse and talented people who choose to live here," said Barry E. Johnson, President/CEO of the Greater Miami Chamber of Commerce. "Companies like U.S. Gas & Electric know they don't need to invest in expensive relocations to grow their business as we have skilled people already here who want to live, work and stay in Miami."
In addition to creating jobs, the company is also expanding its current headquarters facility in the City of Miami. Its location in Miami gives USG&E access to a talented, multilingual workforce that can service their customer's needs nationwide.
Founded in 2002, USG&E is an energy supply provider to commercial and residential customers. Recognized by Inc. magazine as one of the Fastest-Growing Private Companies in America within the energy industry, USG&E services customers in Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania, with plans for further expansion.
Over the course of the last 12 months, USG&E has experienced tremendous growth that has far exceeded its 2012 financial goals. The company has already acquired its 200,000th customer and to date, has achieved its fiscal outcome every month throughout the organization's 10 year history.
"USG&E is proud to provide economic growth to the South Florida community through job creation," stated Mr. Marcille. "We plan to aggressively expand our operations to develop a "World-Class' Contact Center to service and increase our customer base. This includes growing our sales team and the supportive resources they need for success including personnel for training, supervisory, managerial, operations, information technology, marketing, and administration."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2012/11/29/gov-rick-scott-highlights-u-s-gas-electrics-job-creation-in-miami/
