Public Statements
Gov. Scott: CDC Must Fully Fulfill Requests For Zika Resources
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 24, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the Florida Department of Health (DOH) is investigating a new non-travel related case of Zika in Palm Beach County. This case is unrelated to the other non-travel related case announced earlier this month in Palm Beach. Last week, the Governor called on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for 5,000 Zika antibody tests. The CDC has only sent less than 1,200 to Florida.
Governor Scott said, "Last week, I requested that the CDC provide Florida with 5,000 Zika antibody tests, but they have only sent less than 1,200. This is unacceptable. We also requested additional lab support personnel to help the state expedite Zika testing and an additional 10,000 Zika prevention kits. It is disappointing that these requests have not been fulfilled. Florida now has 43 cases of locally acquired Zika and the Obama Administration must quickly fulfill our entire request so that we can continue to provide the resources our state needs to combat this virus. I have also repeatedly called on the Obama Administration to provide a detailed plan on how Florida should work with FEMA on how federal resources will be allocated to combat this virus. I expect the Obama Administration to be a good partner and work quickly to fulfill these requests."
DOH has begun door-to-door outreach and targeted sampling in Palm Beach County and mosquito abatement and reduction activities are also taking place. DOH still believes ongoing active transmission is only taking place within the small identified areas in Wynwood and Miami Beach in Miami-Dade County. More details will be announced when the investigation concludes.
Any pregnant woman who would like to receive a free Zika risk assessment and testing or a Zika prevention kit should contact the Florida Department of Health in Palm Beach County at 561-840-4500. For more information on the Zika virus, please call our Zika Virus Information Hotline at 855-622-6735.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/08/24/gov-scott-cdc-must-fully-fulfill-requests-for-zika-resources/
