Public Statements
Governor and First Lady Scott Announce Winners of Governor's Wellness Challenge
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 20, 2012
Location: Unknown

In promotion of fitness and healthy lifestyles, Governor Rick Scott and First Lady Ann Scott announced the winners of the Governor's Wellness Challenge. Six schools -- two elementary, two middle and two high -- will receive awards based on the achievements portrayed in their video entries, along with three physical education teachers nominated by colleagues and parents.
Supported by Florida's Foundation and UnitedHealth Group, the Governor's Wellness Challenge was aimed at encouraging and recognizing Florida schools that have excelled in teaching students about the importance of a healthy lifestyle. The participating schools provided a short DVD that highlights how the school actively promotes fitness, wellness and a healthy lifestyle to their students. Students, parents, teachers, and principals also nominated exceptional full-time physical education instructors for the Physical Education Teacher of Excellence Award.
"Fitness and nutrition are strongly linked to healthy minds," said Governor Scott. "As we work to provide our students a good education, it is important to also teach them how to fuel their bodies and minds through balanced diets and physical activity. These tools will allow Florida's children to succeed not only in the classroom, but also throughout their lives."
Mrs. Scott added, "Developing healthy habits at a young age is the best way to ensure an overall healthy lifestyle for our children. This contest was a creative way to encourage schools to promote healthy life choices."
The following six Florida schools were selected to receive $2,500 to purchase fitness equipment for their school:
Roberts Elementary School (Leon County)
San Pablo Elementary School (Duval County)
Avon Park Middle School (Highlands County)
Lakeland Highlands Middle School (Polk County)
Caminiti Exceptional Center (Hillsborough County)
MAST Academy (Miami-Dade County)
The following three Physical Education instructors were selected to receive the Physical Education Teacher of Excellence Award and the prize amount of $1,500 each:
Dianna Bandhauer, Lecanto Primary School (Citrus County)
Erin Goudge, Avon Park Middle School (Highlands County)
Robert Weilert, Liberty High School (Osceola County)
"Congratulations to these schools and physical education teachers for their great work in teaching fitness, wellness, and a healthy lifestyle to our students," Governor Scott said. "Their dedication will undoubtedly improve the lives they have touched in building a healthy, strong, and successful future."
To see the winning videos and learn more about the Governor's Wellness Challenge, please visit www.flgov.com/wellness.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2012/07/20/governor-and-first-lady-scott-announce-winners-of-governors-wellness-challenge/
