Public Statements
Gov. Scott: We Will Provide $5 Million in Additional Zika Preparedness Funding to Miami-Dade County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 22, 2016
Location: Wynwood, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the Florida Department of Health (DOH) will allocate $5 million in additional state funding to Miami-Dade County for Zika preparedness and mosquito control. This funding will be used for additional mosquito control staff, mosquito spraying and community outreach. This follows last week's announcement that DOH believes active transmission of the Zika virus is occurring in a less than 1.5 square mile area of Miami Beach between 8th and 28th streets (see map below). Last week, DOH also cleared three additional blocks of the Northeastern area of Wynwood because there is no continued evidence of active transmission. This was in addition to the 14 blocks in the area that were already cleared (see map below).
Governor Scott said, "Since our first travel related case in February, we have remained fully committed to making every state resource available to ensure Miami, and our entire state, remains safe. Following Friday's announcement, I have directed DOH to immediately allocate $5 million in state funding to Miami-Dade County to ensure the community has all the support they need. We know from our recent success reducing the zone in Wynwood that our efforts to aggressively spray for mosquitos and educate the public are working. An aggressive mosquito eradication plan has already begun in Miami Beach and this $5 million in funding will allow the county to help protect its families, visitors and businesses.
"DOH has been fulfilling requests for Miami-Dade County since June, and if it becomes clear that more resources are needed, we will not hesitate. Combatting the Zika virus is something we must do together. I will continue to work with local officials to ensure our cities, counties and state are partners in our fight against this virus."
This funding is part of the $26.2 million in state funds Governor Scott authorized for Zika preparedness in June. Click HERE to see a detailed timeline of actions taken by Governor Scott to combat the Zika virus in Florida.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/08/22/gov-scott-we-will-provide-5-million-in-additional-zika-preparedness-funding-to-miami-dade-county/
