Public Statements
Governor Scott Kicks-off 2012 Hurricane Season in Miami
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 1, 2012
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today kicked-off the 2012 Atlantic Hurricane Season and the events focused on the 20th anniversary of Hurricane Andrew and preparedness for hurricane season. In addition, Governor Scott officially declared the week of May 27 -- June 2 as "Hurricane Preparedness Week."
To emphasize the need for Florida's citizens and visitors to be as prepared as possible for the start of hurricane season, Governor Scott built his own disaster supply kit at local Home Depot store in Miami. All disaster supply kit items purchased will be donated to a member of the Claude and Mildred Pepper Senior Center.
"As we officially start the 2012 Atlantic Hurricane Season, I encourage all Floridians to be prepared to respond to any natural disaster. We have already had two named storms hit our state and with the recent arrival of Tropical Storm Beryl, we are reminded that Mother Nature can be unpredictable," said Governor Scott. "Twenty years ago, Florida was forever changed following the devastation Hurricane Andrew had on our state. That disaster made us change the way we prepare and respond to a disaster, and is a constant reminder to never underestimate the impact a storm can have on Florida's families and businesses."
Governor Scott also traveled to the Southland Mall in Miami (formerly Cutler Ridge Mall), which was destroyed by Hurricane Andrew to discuss the impacts of Category 5 Hurricane Andrew had on South Florida. The event highlighted the resilience of Florida's residents and businesses following the natural disaster.
The Atlantic Hurricane Season runs from June 1 -- November 30. To GET A PLAN! visit www.FloridaDisaster.org. For the latest information on the 2012 Hurricane Season, follow on Twitter at www.Twitter.com/flsert and on Facebook at www.Facebook.com/FloridaSERT.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2012/06/01/governor-scott-kicks-off-2012-hurricane-season-in-miami/
