Public Statements
Governor Scott Creates Blue Ribbon Task Force to Evaluate State University System
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 4, 2012
Location: Unknown

With the executive charge to accelerate reform of the State University System, Governor Rick Scott today created the Blue Ribbon Task Force on State Higher Education Reform.
"The state has a vested interest in ensuring its higher education system produces world-class talent to serve as engaged citizens and meet the demands of Florida's emerging knowledge-based economy," said Governor Scott. "It's time to assess the progress of prior reform efforts and identify strategies to improve efficiencies and enhance the system's effectiveness as an economic catalyst."
The creation of the Blue Ribbon Task Force on State Higher Education Reform follows the Governor's recent collaboration with the Florida Legislature to expand funding for education by $1 billion. The focus on higher education reflects the Scott Administration's emphasis on expanding Florida's competitive advantages needed to grow the economy and create jobs.
Governor Scott's executive order outlined expectations that the Blue Ribbon Task Force will focus on the State University System's governance model, particularly the interaction between the Board of Governors and the individual universities. Final recommendations are to be delivered by November 15.
Governor Scott announced the Blue Ribbon Task Force's chair, Dr. Dale A. Brill, will be joined by six members, two selected by the Senate President Mike Haridopolos and Senate President Designate Don Gaetz, two selected by House Speaker Dean Cannon and Speaker Designate Will Weatherford and two selected by the Chairman of the Board of Governors, Dean Colson.
Dr. Brill currently serves as the president of the Florida Chamber Foundation and is a former full-time member of Florida State University's faculty and previously served as the Director of the Governor's Office of Tourism, Trade and Economic Development.
"Dr. Brill's background combines knowledge of higher education and its role as a catalyst for economic development," said Governor Scott. "He is a proven consensus builder who will drive the strategic thinking necessary to make a comprehensive assessment and action-oriented recommendations."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2012/05/04/governor-scott-creates-blue-ribbon-task-force-to-evaluate-state-university-system/
