Public Statements
Governor Scott "Gets to Work' Picking Florida Oranges
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 2, 2012
Location: Unknown

Continuing his focus on job creation and promoting Florida's world famous citrus industry, Governor Rick Scott picked and processed oranges at IMG Citrus in Indian River County for his ninth "Let's Get to Work!' Day. He took part in every step of getting oranges to market, including picking, sorting and packing the fruit. Florida's citrus industry has an economic Impact of $9.3 billion annually and accounts for nearly 80,000 Florida jobs.
"Florida's citrus industry represents about two-thirds of the U.S. citrus market," Governor Scott said. "That's why people think of oranges when they think of Florida, in addition to our great beaches and sunshine."
Governor Scott spent the morning in the orange grove, picking citrus that was loaded onto a truck and taken to the packinghouse. He also used a tractor to mow the grass between the citrus trees.
Later, Governor Scott arrived at the packing plant with the citrus he and the other citrus workers picked during the morning. After lunch with packinghouse employees, he assisted with sorting the fruit by color, size and quality. After the oranges have passed the rigorous grading process, he packed them into either boxes or bags for shipping to markets throughout the United States and around the world.
"As Governor, I am working to make sure the world thinks of Florida as the best place to start, expand or move a business," Governor Scott said. "Our goal is to create the best business climate so businesses, like the ones in Florida's citrus industry, can expand and grow."
Because Florida's citrus industry is so important, the need for continued research is paramount. To help protect the industry, the 2012-13 budget Governor Scott signed last month includes $2 million to supplement Department of Citrus funds for citrus disease research.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2012/05/02/governor-scott-%E2%80%98gets-to-work%E2%80%99-picking-florida-oranges/
