Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Tampa Area Added Nearly 40,000 Jobs Over the Year
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 19, 2016
Location: Tampa, FL

Governor Rick Scott announced today that the Tampa area added 39,800 new private-sector jobs over the year in July. The Tampa area's unemployment rate was 4.8 percent, down 0.7 percentage point in the last year. Cissy Proctor, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, made the announcement at Aero Simulation, Inc. (ASI), a designer and manufacturer of innovative flight simulators for military and commercial aircrafts that is expanding in Hillsborough County. The expansion will create 40 new jobs and invest $7.5 million in the local community.
Governor Scott said, "Tampa added nearly 40,000 new jobs over the year in July, which is great news. Today we also announced that ASI will be expanding in Hillsborough County and creating 40 new jobs. It is clear that our work to make Florida the best place for businesses to grow is helping companies like ASI invest in our state and create more opportunities for our families."
ASI currently employs more than 60 Floridians. The company will be moving from its current Tampa facility to a new, 60,000 square foot facility which will be built in Hillsborough County. The new positions will include aviation simulation developers, hardware integration engineers, and more. Individuals interested in open job opportunities may refer to the Aero Simulation, Inc. web site at http://aerosimulation.com/careers/.
Dr. C. Michael McCarthy, president of Aero Simulation, Inc., said, "We're excited to expand our presence in Tampa and embark on our next phase of growth in a state-of-the-art facility. We're proud to be a part of a military-friendly community and look forward to developing new programs and systems here that will ensure that our nation's pilots and operators are the best trained in the world."
The industries with the largest job gains over the year in the Tampa area were professional and business services with 11,300 new jobs; leisure and hospitality with 8,200 new jobs; and trade, transportation and utilities with 7,400 new jobs. In July, the Tampa area continues to be ranked first among the state metro areas in job demand with 47,885 openings. The Tampa area also remained first in the state in demand for high-skill, high-wage STEM occupations with 15,349 openings in July.
Florida businesses created 26,500 private-sector jobs across the state during July 2016, bringing the total number of jobs created since December 2010 to 1,160,700 jobs. The state's unemployment rate remained at 4.7 percent in July, the lowest rate since November 2007. Florida's annual job growth rate of 3.3 percent is also exceeding the nation's rate of 1.9 percent, for the 52nd consecutive month. More than 31,340 Floridians were placed in jobs by CareerSource Tampa Bay and the state's other 24 regional workforce boards.
The ASI expansion project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, Hillsborough County and the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation.
Crystal Sircy, Executive Vice President and COO of Enterprise Florida, Inc. said, "Thanks to the state's long history in aerospace and aviation, Florida has been a national and global industry leader for decades. Innovative companies like Aero Simulation are continuing that long legacy of leadership and we thank them for their growth and contributions to the state's aerospace excellence."
Cissy Proctor, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, said, "Areo Simulation is a national leader in the aerospace and defense industries, which are critical to Florida's strong economic growth. The future looks bright for Tampa Bay because companies like Aero Simulation continue to recognize all that this area has to offer."
Hon. Lesley "Les" Miller, Jr., Chair of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners said, "Aero Simulation's decision to invest and expand in Hillsborough County is a statement of confidence in our community, and a strong indicator of our economic vitality and momentum. This announcement also illustrates our support for their future growth and the commitment that we share with our public and private partners to their success."
Colleen Chappell, Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation Chair and CEO of ChappellRoberts, said, "With more than 90,000 veterans living in the area, Tampa and Hillsborough County offer aviation, defense, and security industry employers like ASI a rich pool of talent equipped with the skills and clearances they require. ASI joins organizations like DTCC, USAA, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Integrity Express Logistics and others that have recently expanded here and who are benefiting from our exceptional veteran workforce."
To view the July 2016 employment data visit www.floridajobs.org/labor-market-information/labor-market-information-press-releases/monthly-press-releases.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/08/19/gov-scott-tampa-area-added-nearly-40000-jobs-over-the-year-2/
