Public Statements
Governor Scott and Google Partner to Help Small Businesses Get Online
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 27, 2012
Location: Unknown

Continuing his efforts to make Florida the best place to start, grow or move a business, Gov. Rick Scott today announced a partnership with Google that will bring free websites to small businesses throughout Florida. "Florida Get Your Business Online" will help drive economic growth by giving Florida businesses the tools and resources to establish a website, find new customers, and grow.
"Small businesses are the backbone of Florida's economy," said Governor Scott. "This initiative is aimed to help these businesses grow in Florida."
Florida Get Your Business Online is an easy, fast and free way for Florida businesses to get online. For the next year, participating Florida businesses can go to www.floridagetonline.com to get a free website as well as free tools, training and resources to help their business succeed online. Google is partnering with Intuit to provide its popular Intuit Websites offerings that include an easy-to-build website, a customized domain name and free web hosting for one year.
While 97 percent of Americans look online for local products or businesses, 68 percent of Florida small businesses do not have a website.
"The perception that getting online is complex, costly and time-consuming has prevented many Florida small businesses from taking the first step," said Scott Levitan, Director of Small Business Engagement at Google. "This program makes it fast, easy and free for businesses to get online."
As part of this program, Google will be providing free workshops to small businesses in Miami on April 3 and April 4 at the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts, Knight Concert Hall, 1300 Biscayne Boulevard and in Tampa on April 5 at the Tampa Museum of Art, 120 West Gasparilla Plaza. Businesses can register for these free workshops at www.floridagetonline.com.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2012/03/27/governor-scott-and-google-partner-to-help-small-businesses-get-online/
