Public Statements
Governor Scott Thanks Legislature for Passing 2012 Job Creation and Economic Growth Agenda
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 21, 2012
Location: Unknown

Today, while welcoming 7-Eleven convenient stores back to the Jacksonville area, Governor Rick Scott thanked the Florida Legislature for passing his 2012 Job Creation and Economic Growth Agenda to spur job growth by lowering the cost of living and doing business in Florida.
Governor Scott praised 7-Eleven's plan to add 80 new stores in Jacksonville by 2015, which will create approximately 800 jobs during the next five years. With 734 7-Eleven stores currently located throughout Florida, the company plans to add 400 more stores statewide by 2016. 7-Eleven Inc. is the world's largest convenience store chain with 44,700 stores in 16 countries, of which 9,100 are in North America.
"The return of 7-Eleven to Jacksonville shows that Florida is becoming known as the best place for businesses to grow and expand," said Governor Rick Scott. "I applaud 7-Eleven for creating jobs in our state, and I thank the Florida Legislature, Mayor Brown and the city council for helping create a business environment where private-sector jobs can grow."
Highlights of Governor Scott's 2012 Job Creation and Economic Growth Agenda
Rules and Regulations
Eliminate burdensome rules and regulations by continuing to repeal over 1,000 burdensome rules and regulations, including 165 rules from the five water management districts.
Tax Relief and Reform
Double the business tax exemption from $25,000 to $50,000, eliminating it for 25 percent of the companies required to pay it. Last year, the tax was eliminated for almost half the businesses required to pay it.
Continue lowering the more than $15 billion in taxes levied by Florida's more than 1,600 special taxing districts. Last year, Governor Scott worked with the Legislature to deliver $210 million in property tax cuts levied by Florida's five water management districts, a type of special taxing district.
Voters will have the opportunity to pass a constitutional amendment that will exempt any business with less than $50,000 in tangible personal property from the tax levied on the amount of all articles of value owned by a business. If approved, the tax will be eliminated it for roughly half of the businesses required to pay it.
Tax relief for new and existing manufacturers to make Florida more attractive to quality manufacturing jobs.
Reemployment System
Florida is the first state in the country to transform its unemployment system into a reemployment system that focuses on getting people back to work.
Under-skilled job seekers collecting unemployment will be encouraged to receive the training needed for career advancement, increased productivity and economic prosperity
Workforce Boards
Increase accountability and restore credibility to Florida's 24 locally-controlled workforce boards by allowing the Governor to partner with the boards and limits use of taxpayer dollars to ensure they are spent wisely.
In the coming weeks, the Governor will continue receiving bills passed by the Legislature, including the budget, which will implement the remainder of Governor Scott's 2012 Job Creation and Economic Growth Agenda when they are signed into law. Other measures of Governor Scott's agenda that were passed include:
By balancing the budget without raising taxes, Florida offers stability and commitment that businesses need in order to plan for future growth and investment.
No sweeps of the transportation trust fund and a $35-million investment to improve Florida's 14 deepwater sea ports and prepare them for the expansion of the Panama Canal, ratified free trade agreements and the growing economies of Central and South America.
Funding to establish a one-stop web portal to streamline business registration
Prioritize science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) in Florida's K-12 and higher education system to support a growing high-tech workforce.
GOVERNOR SCOTT'S 2012 PRIORITIES
Streamlining business permitting and eliminating burdensome rules and regulations.
Providing tax relief and reform for Florida's working families and businesses
Reforming Florida's unemployment system to create a reemployment system
Restoring accountability and credibility to Florida's workforce boards
Prioritizing vital transportation projects to facilitate economic development opportunities
Offering stability to Florida businesses by balancing the budget without raising taxes
Prioritizing science, technology, engineering and mathematics in education

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2012/03/21/governor-scott-thanks-legislature-for-passing-2012-job-creation-and-economic-growth-agenda-welcomes-800-jobs-expected-from-7-eleven%E2%80%99s-return-to-jacksonville/
