Public Statements
Governor and First Lady Scott Promote Physical Fitness
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 1, 2012
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott and First Lady Ann Scott invite all public and private elementary, middle and high schools to participate in the inaugural Governor's Wellness Challenge. They also invite students, parents, teachers and principals to nominate full-time physical education teachers for the Physical Education Teacher of Excellence Award.
The Governor's Wellness Challenge recognizes schools making a positive difference in the lives of Florida's students by promoting fitness, wellness and a healthier lifestyle. Schools are invited to submit a video no longer than 10 minutes demonstrating best practices in fitness and nutrition education. Information about the contests is available on the Governor's Wellness Challenge webpage, www.flgov.com/wellness.
"As we work to create educational opportunities for each and every child in Florida, I believe that healthy bodies are linked to healthy minds. Physical activity and education, along with balanced nutrition, are the tools that give school children the strength and focus they need to succeed in the classroom," Governor Scott said. "It is my privilege to invite students throughout Florida to participate in this opportunity to learn about and demonstrate healthy habits that people of all ages can utilize."
"I know that healthy habits start young, and it is important for me as a mother, grandmother and as First Lady to encourage Florida's children to be healthy and active," said Mrs. Scott. "The video contest is a great chance for Florida's schools to really express their creativity while highlighting how they help children improve fitness and make healthy choices."
Winning schools and teachers will be invited to attend a ceremony with Governor and First Lady Scott in spring of 2012. The Governor's Wellness Challenge is supported by Florida's Foundation and UnitedHealthcare.
"We are grateful for the opportunity to serve as the health care partner for this important wellness program, which will encourage young people to adopt healthy habits through good nutrition and exercise," said David Lewis, president and CEO, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual of Florida. "We applaud Governor Scott for his commitment to wellness, and we support this initiative to help today's youth understand the importance of their long-term health and wellness."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2012/03/01/governor-and-first-lady-scott-announce-governor%E2%80%99s-wellness-challenge-to-recognize-schools-p-e-teachers-for-promoting-fitness-and-healthy-lifestyles/
