Public Statements
CNN "The Situation Room" - Transcript
Interview
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 26, 2012
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
BLITZER: Good question, Jack. Thanks very much. It sets up perfectly my next guest.
Rick Scott, he's the governor of this beautiful state.
Governor Scott, thanks very much for coming in. And let me just pick up where Jack left off and read to you what Bob Dole, the Republican presidential -- former Republican presidential nominee, just like John McCain four years ago, blasting Newt Gingrich.
This is what Bob Dole issued a statement today saying this, "If Gingrich is the nominee, it will have an adverse impact on Republican candidates running for county, state and federal offices. Hardly anyone who served with Newt in Congress has endorsed him and that fact speaks for itself. He was a one man band who rarely took advice. In my opinion," it's still from Bob Dole, "if we want to avoid a sweeping victory by Obama in November, Republicans should nominate Governor Romney as our standard bearer."
What do you think? Are you with Bob Dole on the potential downside of picking Newt Gingrich?
GOV. RICK SCOTT (R), FLORIDA: Well, see, I was not the establishment candidate. I did not get the -- I'm a business guy. This is the first time I ran for office. So, I think, you know, this state elected somebody that wasn't an establishment candidate. I got elected on a jobs' plan. I think what they all talk about and I hope he'll talk about tonight is jobs.
I mean, what we want in Florida, we want something to help our state get back to work. We've had a lot of success this last year, unemployment dropped 2.1 percent, second fastest in the country. But we need federal help, we need a federal partner, not help, really, a federal partner that's going to think the same way we do lower taxes, less regulation, less litigation, and get our state back to work.
BLITZER: I know you haven't endorsed anyone yet. And it's getting closer to Tuesday. That's when the Florida primary takes place, but you did say some nice things the other day about Mitt Romney.
Let me play this little clip. It was from a radio show, "America's Morning News." Play this clip and then we'll discuss.
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
SCOTT: If you're going to hire somebody -- we're basically hiring a new president, would you hire someone successful in business or somebody that was unsuccessful? The thing that Mitt Romney has going for him, all right, is he was successful in business. He lived the American Dream. He said, 'Look, this is the greatest country in the world and I can go build companies,' and that's what he did.
(END AUDIO CLIP)
BLITZER: Sounds pretty close to an endorsement. Give me your interpretation.
SCOTT: Well, here's what I believe. I believe the candidate that has the best jobs plan is going to be the candidate that wins. You know, all these candidates, you know, are going beat President Obama because unfortunately hasn't been able to turn around our economy. They all bring something different in the table. I think in the end, though, the candidates are going to win if they have, you know, three, five, seven steps to how they're going to turn our economy around, that's what we want in Florida.
Now, like I said, we've had a lot of success -- 140,000 private sector jobs last year. But we need a federal partner.
BLITZER: So, of these four candidates, I'm sure they've studied their jobs plans, each one -- who do you think has the best plan as you see it right now?
SCOTT: I don't think they've talked enough about jobs. I think there's way too much attack, you know, in this, just talking about some of these negatives. Ultimately, that doesn't work. You've got to give people reason to vote for you. In my case, seven steps to 700,000 thousands over seven years. You know, we're beating that right now to do it.
So, I think they're making a mistake by doing all the attacks. I think they ought to be saying this is how I'm going to turnaround this economy, this is what I'm going to do to get you back to work, or make sure you keep your job. That's what I think all of them need to spend more time doing that. And they're not doing it enough.
BLITZER: Well, if you look at their Web sites, if you look at their speeches, Governor, with all due respect, and I have, I've been preparing like crazy, this is the third debate I'm going to be moderating later tonight, they have extensive proposals on how to create jobs, how to improve the economy, 50 steps here for Mitt Romney. Newt Gingrich has a very, very detailed plan. So does Ron Paul and Rick Santorum. They have very detailed plans, all of them, I'm sure, they would tell you that.
Have you met with any of these four?
SCOTT: Absolutely. Wolf, if you look at it. If you -- maybe I don't see all ads down here, but all the ads I see are negative. They're not saying these are the three or five or seven things I'm going to do to turn around the federal economy and make sure this is the greatest company to build businesses. We need -- instead of attacking the free market, we need to support the free market. That's how we get jobs going.
And so, that's what they ought to be talking about instead of some of these other things that they're talking about.
So, I hope tonight and I know you sort of run - you're running the show. So, I hope tonight that these candidates will talk more about what they're doing to create jobs rather than saying this is person is negative for these reasons.
BLITZER: All right, Governor, thanks very much. I know you'll be watching here in Tallahassee, the state capital. Appreciate very much the hospitality we're getting from all the Floridians.
SCOTT: Have a great time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1201/26/sitroom.01.html
