Public Statements
Governor Scott, Lt. Governor Carroll, and First Lady Ann Scott Announce 2012 Black History Month Contests
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Dec. 9, 2011
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott, Lt. Governor Jennifer Carroll, and First Lady Ann Scott today invite students in kindergarten through 12th grades to participate in the Florida Black History Month art and essay contests. They also invite students, parents, teachers and principals to nominate full-time African-American educators in elementary, middle or high schools for the Black History Month Excellence in Education Award.
The student contests focus on the theme "African-American Pioneers Who Advanced Science and Technology," and Information about the contests and Florida's Black History Month is available on Florida's Black History Month website, www.FloridaBlackHistory.com.
"During Black History month, we take time to recognize the many ways African-Americans have enriched Florida's communities, culture and history. The achievements of African-Americans touch every community, in every field of study, including science and technology," Governor Scott said. "During Black History Month, it is my privilege to honor African-American leaders throughout our state and their vital role in strengthening our communities."
"We are proud to recognize African-American individuals and their successes, which have made our state a leader in culture and diversity," Lt. Governor Carroll said. "As Florida's first African-American Lt. Governor, I hope to continue expanding on Florida's already diverse environment."
"It is important that Florida schoolchildren learn about a variety of successful role models so that they may grow to become the leaders of tomorrow," Mrs. Scott said. "The art and essay contests are a great chance for the children of Florida to express their creativity while learning about the African-American leaders who have enriched our state."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/12/09/governor-scott-lt-governor-carroll-and-first-lady-ann-scott-announce-2012-black-history-month-contests/
