Public Statements
Governor Scott "Gets to Work' as Teacher in Immokalee
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 10, 2011
Location: Immokalee, FL

Continuing his "Let's Get to Work Days' tradition, Governor Rick Scott is attending, and teaching in some classes at three schools in Collier County today. During his lunch break with teachers, Governor Scott listened to their concerns about the teaching profession and suggestions for improving education in Florida.
"The students I encountered today showed great interest in the lessons, and that is a great credit to their teachers, parents and school leaders," Governor Scott said. "I also appreciated hearing teachers discuss their suggestions and ideas for helping students learn and achieve their full potential."
At Immokalee High School, Governor Scott's lesson plans include discussions with American government students about campaign finance laws, as well as taxation and fiscal policy with economics students. At Immokalee Middle School, Governor Scott will teach students about farming in the American colonies during a United States history class and about significant dates and events from the Renaissance to the Age of Revolution during a geography class.
At Eden Park Elementary School, Governor Scott will teach two science classes. Third graders will compare the volume of solids and liquids and use laptop computers to analyze the data they collect. Fourth graders will dissect and analyze barn owl pellets and develop conclusions about the owl's diet and habitat.
"It was great to see the students really get engaged with the hands-on activities in the science classes," Governor Scott said. "The only way we will increase the number of graduates in the areas of science, technology, engineering and math is by getting our students interested in science at an early age and then making sure they gain the skills needed to pursue those interests."
About Governor Scott's "Let's Get to Work Days'
This August, Governor Scott started working at least one day each month at jobs that mirror the tasks he performed on his journey from public housing to the Governor's Mansion.
Stay updated on the Governor's "Let's Get to Work Days' by following him on Twitter and Facebook.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/11/10/governor-scott-%E2%80%98gets-to-work%E2%80%99-as-teacher-in-immokalee/
