Public Statements
Ships Ahoy! Governor Scott "Gets to Work' at Port of Miami Ports and International Trade Key to Florida's Economy and Job Creation
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 4, 2011
Location: Miami, FL

Continuing his "Let's Get to Work' Days tradition, Governor Rick Scott is at the Port of Miami today, working with ocean transportation company Seaboard Marine and Carnival Cruise Lines. The Port of Miami is the world's largest cruise port and one of the major cargo ports in the United States.
To highlight the importance of international trade to Florida's economy, Governor Scott will spend the morning preparing heavy equipment for export later in the day to Panama, as well as inspecting oversized cargo destined for export and extremely time-sensitive import cargoes.
"Working at the Port of Miami today convinces me all the more that Florida is the best place for companies to import and export their products," Governor Scott said. "That is exactly why we must make sure our ports are able to compete with other ports in the Southeast and along the entire Eastern seaboard."
Governor Scott's workday began at 7 a.m. today with Seaboard Marine. The company provides direct, regular cargo transport service between the United States and the Caribbean Basin, Central and South America.
Later this afternoon, Governor Scott will demonstrate his commitment to exemplary customer service on Carnival Cruise Lines' Imagination. He will join employees providing a warm welcome to guests as they arrive and check in for a fun-filled, three-day cruise to the Bahamas. As a welcome host, onboard announcer and "Just Ask" host, he will provide guests information about the ship and the cruise.
The Port of Miami was chosen for Governor Scott's fifth "Let's Get to Work' Day to highlight the importance of Florida's 14 deepwater seaports to job creation. The maritime cargo activities at Florida ports are responsible for generating more than 550,000 direct and indirect jobs and $66 billion in total economic value. Overall, the cruise industry is responsible for more than 115,000 jobs in Florida.
Earlier this year, Governor Scott urged on President Obama to send three previously negotiated free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea to Congress for immediate ratification, with no strings attached. The agreements were approved last month and are projected to create nearly 12,000 jobs in Florida and save American companies over $3 billion in tariffs.
About Florida's Seaports
Florida ranked fourth among the nation's top exporting states in 2010. These activities contribute $1.7 billion in state and local tax revenues.
According to the Florida Department of Transportation and Florida Ports Council, waterborne international trade moving through Florida's 14 seaports in 2010 represented 55 percent of Florida's total international trade. Valued at $69.7 billion, waterborne international trade in 2010 increased 22.6 percent from the previous year.
The cruise industry also generates significant economic activity through its Florida-based operations, which account for 59 percent of all U.S. cruise embarkations. In 2010, 12.7 million passengers embarked and disembarked from Florida seaports, predominantly on multi-day cruises, which increased by 12.1 percent.
About Governor Scott's "Let's Get to Work' Days
This August, Governor Scott started working at least one day each month at jobs that mirror the tasks he performed on his journey from public housing to the Governor's Mansion.
Governor Scott's "Let's Get to Work' Days revive the tradition started by former Governor and United States Senator Bob Graham. Floridians can suggest jobs for the Governor's workdays by visiting www.FLGov.com and clicking on ""Let's Get to Work' Days" or e-mailing Rick.Scott@eog.myflorida.com.
Stay updated on the Governor's "Let's Get to Work' Days by following him on Twitter and Facebook.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/11/04/ships-ahoy-governor-scott-%E2%80%98gets-to-work%E2%80%99-at-port-of-miami-ports-and-international-trade-key-to-florida%E2%80%99s-economy-and-job-creation/
