Public Statements
Governor Scott Performs Workday at NAS Jacksonville
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 8, 2011
Location: Jacksonville, FL

Assuming the role of both Governor and Sailor, Governor Scott spent his 3rd "Let's Get to Work' Day at the Naval Air Station (NAS) Jacksonville today. Governor Scott worked at the military airport performing similar jobs as he did when he was on active duty aboard the USS Glover as an enlisted radar man.
Governor Scott's workday began at 5:45 this morning working a shift with Navy security personnel, which was followed by eating breakfast with sailors and observing the posting of the Colors. Later in the morning, he worked at all four stations in the tower operations, including working with controllers in the radar room. Other tasks he completed today included fueling an aircraft, conducting daily boat maintenance and working another shift alongside security personnel in the afternoon.
"The 58,000 active-duty personnel stationed in Florida have a critical job to do," said Governor Scott. "Just one day working alongside them pales in comparison to the commitment, hard work and sacrifices these men and women make every day."
Earlier this year, Governor Scott applauded new legislation that helps military families by cutting property taxes for deployed service members and allowing certain military spouses to begin working sooner after being transferred to Florida. Other bills signed this year increase outdoor recreational opportunities for Gold Star parents and injured war veterans and establishes the Florida Veterans Hall of Fame at the State Capitol Building in Tallahassee.
"Florida is home to 20 military installations and three unified commands, making the military and defense a significant part of our state's economy. Defense-related spending totals nearly $65 billion of Florida's GDP and more than 28,000 jobs. Not only is this sector vital in protecting our residents, but it plays a significant role in sustaining Florida jobs," continued Governor Scott.
About Governor Scott's "Let's Get to Work' Days
Last month, Governor Scott started working at least one day each month at jobs that mirror the tasks he performed on his journey from public housing to the Governor's Mansion.
Governor Scott's "Let's Get to Work' Days revive the tradition started by former Governor and United States Senator Bob Graham. Floridians can suggest jobs for the Governor's workdays by visiting www.FLGov.com and clicking on ""Let's Get to Work' Days" or e-mailing Rick.Scott@eog.myflorida.com.
Stay updated on the Governor's "Let's Get to Work' Days by following him on Twitter and Facebook.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/09/08/governor-scott-performs-workday-at-nas-jacksonville/
