Public Statements
Governor Scott Joins Domestic Security Officials to Launch "If You See Something, Say Something"혲 Campaign in Florida
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 1, 2011
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott today joined Florida Department of Law Enforcement Commissioner Gerald Bailey, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Assistant Secretary of Intergovernmental Affairs Betsy Markey, and the leadership of Florida's Domestic Security Oversight Council to launch "If You See Something, Say Something"혲 in Florida. The initiative features a toll-free, statewide hotline and online reporting form for citizens to report suspicious activity.
"As we draw closer to the 10-year anniversary of 9-11, there is no better time to remember the many lives lost that day a decade ago, and to remind citizens of the need to remain vigilant," said Governor Scott. "This is another tool that citizens and tourists can use to contact authorities when they witness something they know is out of place."
Tips received through the hotline and online reporting form will go to the Florida Fusion Center, a 24-hour watch desk at FDLE, where intelligence analysts will assess the information and take action in conjunction with the state's Regional Domestic Security Task Forces.
"Florida has sophisticated domestic security and information sharing systems in place and we are safer than ever before," said Commissioner Bailey, chair of the Domestic Security Oversight Council. "Prevention is our first priority, and people who report suspicious activity help us identify and address potential threats early on."
"Our nation's security is a shared responsibility and every citizen plays a critical role in identifying and reporting suspicious activities and threats," said U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano. "The new partnership between Florida and DHS on the "If You See Something, Say Something'혲 campaign will help to create a more safe and secure homeland."
DHS recently unveiled television and radio public service announcements that will be broadcast in Florida and across the nation. The state campaign will also include displays on mall posters, bus stops, and other transportation hubs. To help encourage public awareness, the Florida Outdoor Advertising Association, through its member network of companies, has donated space on digital billboards statewide until mid-September.
"If You See Something, Say Something"혲 was originally created by the New York City Transportation Authority and subsequently adopted by the DHS, which has partnered and launched the initiative with NCAA, the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, the NBA, the NFL, as well as several states including Colorado, Minnesota and New Jersey, more than 9,000 federal buildings nationwide, Walmart, Mall of America, the American Hotel and Lodging Association, Amtrak, the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, the general aviation industry, and state and local fusion centers across the country. For more information please visit www.dhs.gov/IfYouSeeSomethingSaySomething.
Officials encourage anyone who sees suspicious activity to report it to local authorities or call I-855-FLA-SAFE (1-855-352-7233). It can also be reported online through FDLE's website at www.fdle.state.fl.us.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/09/01/governor-scott-joins-domestic-security-officials-to-launch-%E2%80%9Cif-you-see-something-say-something%E2%80%9D%E2%84%A2-campaign-in-florida/
