Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Gets to Work at Orange County Public School
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 26, 2011
Location: Orlando, FL

Continuing his promise to resurrect the tradition of workdays, Governor Scott spent his 2nd "Let's Get to Work' Day at Audubon Park Elementary School in Orlando today.
Mirroring the jobs he performed as a young man, Governor Scott worked with Audubon Park's cafeteria crew just like he did as a middle school student when he worked in his school's kitchen during lunch in exchange for eating the hot meal he helped prepare and serve to fellow students.
Governor Scott's workday began at 7:30 this morning working alongside kitchen manager Marsha Herrin. Governor Scott helped prepare and serve breakfast to more than 100 students and assisted with clean up. He also worked with the five-person cafeteria crew to prepare for lunch. This afternoon, after the lunch period and clean up, Governor Scott will join First Lady Ann Scott to visit students in the classroom.
"Ensuring our students get the nutrition they need to learn and achieve in the classroom is critically important," said Governor Scott. "I was fortunate to have the opportunity to earn nutritious meals by working in the cafeteria when my family was struggling, and I am honored to be here today doing this important work alongside Marsha Herrin and her great team. I am committed to making sure every student has a chance for a great education and every parent has the chance to get a job and feed their family."
While Governor Scott was working in the cafeteria, the First Lady visited a technology focused third-grade classroom that utilizes laptops for learning instead of pencils and papers. She observed this unique environment and let the third graders show her how they learn. Later, she visited a second-grade reading class, where she read two books to students and encouraged year-round reading as a foundation for learning.
"I learned so much from the young students at Audubon Park Elementary School today. Third-grade students taught me how learning online can be fun and paperless and second graders impressed me with their reading," Mrs. Scott said. "I have been visiting children across the state this summer and throughout the school year. Whether it is online or in print, I encourage every child in Florida to keep reading, keep writing, and keep learning."
Earlier in the day, First Lady Ann Scott visited Orlando Day Nursery and the Orlando Public Library. Orlando Day Nursery is the oldest day care facility in Florida and will celebrate its 90th anniversary in November. At the nursery, the First Lady joined the children for a healthy breakfast in their classrooms, visited the playground, and toured the vegetable garden. After the tour, Mrs. Scott spent time with a group of four-year-old volunteer pre-kindergarten children, reading children's books Flower Garden and I Went Walking. At the Orlando Public Library, First Lady Ann Scott joined children's storyteller Mr. Charlie in the Papa Bear Room for story time. She read children's books The Very Hungry Caterpillar and Five Little Monkeys Jumping on the Bed. The Orlando Public Library presented Mrs. Scott with her own library card.
About Governor Scott's "Let's Get to Work' Days
Earlier this month, Governor Scott started the tradition of working at least one day each month at a job that mirrors the jobs he performed on his journey from public housing to the Governor's Mansion.
Making donuts, cleaning phone booths, delivering newspapers and selling groceries -- all are previous jobs of Governor Rick Scott and tasks he will perform as part of "Let's Get to Work' Days.
Governor Scott's "Let's Get to Work' Days revive the tradition started by former Governor and United States Senator Bob Graham. Floridians can suggest jobs for the Governor's workdays by visiting www.FLGov.com and clicking on ""Let's Get to Work' Days" or e-mailing Rick.Scott@eog.myflorida.com.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/08/26/governor-rick-scott-gets-to-work-at-orange-county-public-school/
