Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott, Senate President Mike Haridopolos, House Speaker Dean Cannon Pledge Florida Will be First State to Ratify Balanced Budget Amendment
Press Release
By: Dean Cannon, Jr. Mike Haridopolos Rick Scott
Date: July 29, 2011
Location: Unknown

Following the news today that a requirement for a federal Balanced Budget Amendment has been included in the House of Representatives' federal debt reduction proposal, Florida Governor Rick Scott, Senate President Mike Haridopolos, and House Speaker Dean Cannon released the following statements:
FROM GOVERNOR SCOTT
"I applaud the proposal released today to require a federal Balanced Budget Amendment as a part of the debt reduction package in the House of Representatives. It is time for the federal government to begin making the tough choices Americans expect to end irresponsible spending and the crushing national debt.
"I am committed to working with our legislative leaders to ensure that if Congress passes a Federal Balanced Budget Amendment to the United States Constitution, Florida will be the first state to set a Special Session to ratify it. This is exactly the type of reform that Floridians have been asking for from Washington, D.C., and the type of leadership our state and nation need to continue growing jobs and the economy."
FROM PRESIDENT HARIDOPOLOS
"It is clear today that the message of fiscal discipline that Floridians have been sending to our leaders in Washington, D.C., may finally be sinking in. In Florida, voters have demanded that we make the tough choices necessary to balance our budget, despite a record shortfall, without raising taxes or fees. We did just that, and also passed a proposed constitutional amendment that would cap government spending, ensuring it never grows faster than a family's ability to pay for it.
"This is the type of reform that Washington needs to enact--and now. I look forward to working with Governor Scott to make certain that Florida is the first state to set a date for ratification and continues to lead the nation in the type of reforms that will grow our economy for future generations."
FROM SPEAKER CANNON
"Balancing a budget means making difficult decisions and prioritizing critical needs over important wants. Families, businesses and the majority of states already make these hard choices every day, while the federal government seems content just kicking the can down the road.
"It is clear that America has a severe spending problem that our leaders in Washington haven't had the will to address. If given the opportunity, I am confident that the states will show restraint where the federal government has failed.
"I look forward to Florida leading the way towards ratification of a federal balanced budget amendment."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/07/29/governor-rick-scott-senate-president-mike-haridopolos-house-speaker-dean-cannon-pledge-florida-will-be-first-state-to-ratify-balanced-budget-amendment/
