Public Statements
Gov. Scott: APD Offers Waiver Enrollment to More Than 1,000 Individuals
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 16, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced the Agency for Persons with Disabilities (APD) is offering Home and Community-Based Services (HCBS) Medicaid waiver enrollment to more than 1,000 individuals on the waiver waiting list. Letters were mailed out last week to the families who will be receiving the waiver offers. The waiver pays for community supports and services for individuals with developmental disabilities.
Governor Scott said, "For three years in a row, we have focused on completely eliminating the critical needs waiting list and have invested in helping people with unique abilities. This year, we also made a record investment of $1.3 billion in APD, and provided over $39 million to remove more than 1,000 individuals from the waiting list. These investments will ensure all Floridians can get a great job and helps them fulfill their dreams in Florida. We will continue to do everything we can to help all Floridians lead healthy, independent lives in our state."
APD Director Barbara Palmer said, "I am so excited that we have been able to offer waiver enrollment to more than 6,000 people on the waiting list over the last four years. This is tremendous. With the continued support of Governor Scott and the Legislature, we are making a huge difference in people's lives. This funding allows people to fully participate in their local communities."
APD supports people with developmental disabilities to live, learn, and work in their communities. The agency annually serves more than 50,000 Floridians with severe autism, cerebral palsy, spina bifida, intellectual disabilities, Phelan-McDermid syndrome, Down syndrome and Prader-Willi syndrome. For more information about the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, visit APDcares.org or call toll-free 1-866-APD-CARES (1-866-273-2273).

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/08/16/gov-scott-apd-offers-waiver-enrollment-to-more-than-1000-individuals/
