Public Statements
Workgroup Established to Examine Assisted Living Facilities
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 25, 2011
Location: Tallahassee, FL

arrying out Governor Rick Scott's directive to examine the regulation and oversight of assisted living facilities in Florida, the Agency for Health Care Administration (AHCA) announced the creation of the Assisted Living Workgroup. The workgroup's objective is to make recommendations that will improve the monitoring and safety in assisted living facilities.
"Assisted living facilities play a critical role for many seniors by providing safe, community living accommodations for residents. While most facilities live up to those standards, we've seen reports of some that do not," said Governor Scott. "The efforts of the workgroup will help ensure the safety and well-being of our residents."
The workgroup includes Sen. Ronda Storms, Rep. Matt Hudson as well as health care association representatives, policy experts, advocates, and assisted living facility administrators. Larry Polivka, Director and Scholar in Residence at the Claude Pepper Foundation, has agreed to serve as Chairman of the workgroup. The first meeting of the Assisted Living Workgroup is scheduled for August 8 in Tallahassee.
"I look forward to working with the members of the workgroup in our mutual effort to better serve residents of assisted living facilities," said Liz Dudek, AHCA Secretary. "I am also thankful for the participation of our state partners from the Office of the Attorney General, the State Fire Marshal's Office, the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, and the Departments of Elder Affairs and Children and Families."
The Agency also released its annual report of Assisted Living Facilities (ALFs) administrative fines, which highlights the over 300 ALFs penalized for serious or uncorrected violations. In addition, the annual summary of sanctions was released, which includes the 23 facilities whose licenses were revoked or denied at renewal or who had an emergency action imposed between July 1, 2010 and June 30, 2011.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/07/25/workgroup-established-to-examine-assisted-living-facilities/
