Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott and Attorney General Bondi Announce the Surrender of More Than 105,000 Prescription Drug Pills
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 6, 2011
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott and Attorney General Pam Bondi announced today that more than 105,000 pills were surrendered at 24 locations during a statewide compliance operation conducted by the Department of Health, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, and five of Florida's Regional Drug Enforcement Strike Forces. The inspections were conducted pursuant to the Department of Health's declaration of public health emergency made on July 1.
"Earlier this year, I made a promise to crack down on pill mills and stomp this scourge out of our state. The results we're seeing this week show we're making good on that promise," said Governor Rick Scott. "I thank the law enforcement and public health professionals who are making our multi-faceted approach a success and a model for the nation. By shutting down pill mills, we are saving lives and making our communities safer places to live."
"One of the most effective ways to stop prescription drug abuse is to cut it off at the source," stated Attorney General Pam Bondi. "It was gratifying to accompany the Broward County Sheriff's Office and the South Florida Strike Force and see them quarantine prescription narcotics and prevent the easy access that had long exacerbated this epidemic."
The number of pills surrendered or returned to the distributor in each region is as follows:
* Miami Regional Operation Center: 48,406.5 pills
* Orlando Regional Operation Center: 52,322 pills
* Tampa Bay Regional Operation Center: 4,698 pills
* Fort Myers Regional Operation Center: 153 pills
* Pensacola Regional Operation Center: None
In March 2011, Governor Scott announced a Statewide Drug Strike Force, headed by FDLE Commissioner Gerald Bailey, to combat the criminal distribution of prescription drugs in Florida. With support from Attorney General Pam Bondi and state and local law enforcement leaders, the Strike Force is charged with stopping the flow of dangerous drugs into communities by disrupting the major illegal supply points.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/07/06/governor-rick-scott-and-attorney-general-bondi-announce-the-surrender-of-more-than-105000-prescription-drug-pills/
