Public Statements
Governor Scott Signs Legislation to Support Florida's 1.6 Million Military Veterans
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 5, 2011
Location: Largo, FL

Governor Rick Scott today visited the Armed Forces Military Museum in Largo to highlight several pieces of legislation that benefit Florida's 1.6 million veterans and 58,000 active-duty military stationed in Florida.
Governor Scott applauded new legislation that financially helps military families by cutting property taxes for deployed servicemembers and allowing certain military spouses to begin working sooner after being transferred to Florida. Other bills included in today's bill signing ceremony increase outdoor recreational opportunities for Gold Star parents and injured war veterans.
In addition, the ongoing legacy of Florida's veterans will be recognized in the Florida Veterans Hall of Fame to be created at the Florida State Capitol Building.
"Florida continues to be one of the most military friendly states in the nation, and the legislation I am signing today continues that proud tradition. As a veteran myself, I am proud that our state understands the importance of supporting the members of our military and their families, both during their time of service, as well as afterward," Governor Scott said. "The servicemen and women of our Armed Forces, Florida National Guard and reserve units deserve our gratitude and respect for defending the freedoms we as Americans enjoy."
House Bill 1319, Certificates and Licenses for Certain Health Care Practitioners, allows military spouses who are licensed health care professionals to begin working sooner after they relocate to Florida. When active duty members of the Armed Forces are transferred to Florida military bases, their spouses often cannot begin working until they receive the appropriate professional licenses, causing a financial hardship on military families. This legislation allows military spouses who are licensed health care practitioners in other states to receive a temporary Florida license while they wait for a permanent license.





Source:
