Public Statements
Governor Scott Highlights Job Growth at HABCO Manufacturing
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 12, 2016
Location: Boca Raton, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted recent job growth at HABCO Manufacturing, an electronics manufacturer in Boca Raton. In less than a year, HABCO Manufacturing has created 12 new jobs for families in Boca Raton. The company currently employs 200 Floridians, including 150 employees with unique abilities.
Governor Scott said, "I am proud to celebrate HABCO Manufacturing's recent success in Florida and the creation of 12 new jobs in less than one year. Florida manufacturers like HABCO are incredible job creators in our state, which is why we will continue to cut taxes and reduce burdensome regulations to help these businesses create more opportunities for our families. I applaud businesses like HABCO that make it a priority to help people with unique abilities build successful careers so they can live independent lives. I look forward to seeing HABCO Manufacturing continue to grow and invest in the Boca Raton community."
Founded in 1978, HABCO Manufacturing is located on a 12 acre campus in Boca Raton, and repairs and assembles products such as anti-theft security devices, circuit boards and cell phones. The company is also committed to providing training and work opportunities for men and women with special needs in a highly sophisticated technical environment. HABCO serves a diverse and prestigious customer base including ACR Electronics, Motorola, AeroSpace Technologies, Reagan Wireless Corporation, Advanced Media and Lockheed Martin.
Bob DiRocco, HABCO Manufacturing's Executive Director said, "HABCO Manufacturing is dedicated to manufacturing and assembling quality products while ensuring that all of our employees are in a safe and caring environment. We take pride in our training program for adults with special needs and look forward to hiring even more workers in the future. We want to thank Governor Scott for all his hard work to make sure that everyone in our state can get a great job."

Source:
