Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Rick Perry Governor, State of Texas
Letter
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 19, 2011
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott warned Texas Governor Rick Perry not to get too comfortable as the No. 1 business friendly state.
While our state moved up three places from last year's survey of CEOs, Florida is not satisfied with Chief Executive Magazine's third-place ranking for job growth and business development. Governor Scott made it clear, "Florida will not settle for third place."
Governor Scott also thanked Governor Perry and Texas for giving Florida additional motivation to unseat them from their seven-year streak at the top of the CEO's survey.
If you have any questions or need additional information, please call Governor Scott's press office at (850) 488-5394.
# # #
May 18, 2011
The Honorable Rick Perry
Governor, State of Texas
P.O. Box 12428
Austin, Texas 78711-2428
Dear Governor Perry:
It is with great sincerity that I extend my heartfelt congratulations to you and the rest of the Lone Star State on being named the top state for job growth and business development by Chief Executive Magazine. You understand, as I do, that government doesn't create jobs; it creates an environment where businesses can expand and grow.
Not only have you achieved this top ranking this year, you have achieved it seven years in a row. Like everything else Texas does, you have done it in a BIG way.
However, I must tell you: Seven years is long enough.
Be aware that same survey of CEOs ranked Florida's business friendly environment third in the nation, up from sixth last year. While we are grateful to move up three places, Florida will not settle for third place.
In our 21st century economy, business owners can do business anywhere. Every entrepreneur is searching for the best place to get the greatest return on their investment, the best workforce, and the most convenient location. In addition, if possible, they'd like that place to also be a great place to live.
Well, my friend, Florida is already the best place to live. In fact, millions of people from around the world visit Florida and dream of enjoying our great weather, beaches, fishing, and culture year round. And with all we are doing to make Florida number one in job creation, I am certain Texas' days at the top are numbered.
Florida is eliminating job killing regulation, reducing the size and cost of government, and making sure we have the best educated workforce. We have no personal income tax and are phasing out the business tax, starting with eliminating it entirely for half the business that paid it. Florida is definitely on the road to be number one. Thank you for giving us the motivation we needed.
Sincerely,
Rick Scott

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/05/19/governor-scott-warns-governor-perry-watch-your-back-florida-is-coming-for-that-no-1-spot/
