Public Statements
Gov. Scott: DOH Clears Additional Portion of Impacted Area in Wynwood
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 11, 2016
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the Florida Department of Health (DOH) has cleared an additional four blocks in the Southwest corner of the impacted zone in Wynwood. DOH has concluded that no local transmissions of Zika are occurring in the newly cleared area (see map below- shaded area denotes cleared areas). The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), pursuant to their guidance, will continue to monitor the entire one square mile area in Miami, north of downtown. Governor Scott also announced that DOH has identified three additional people in the impacted area with the Zika virus who likely contracted it through a mosquito bite. This brings the total number of people with locally transmitted Zika to 25. DOH still believes active transmissions are only taking place within the identified area that is less than one-square mile in Miami-Dade County.
Governor Scott said, "We believe active transmissions of Zika are still only occurring in an area in Miami that is less than one square mile. Last week, we were able to clear a 10 block portion of the area and today, it's great to announce that we are able to clear an additional four blocks. This means the area where we believe active transmissions are occurring in the state is significantly reducing.
"Although three additional individuals in Wynwood have been identified with the Zika virus today, we are confident that our mosquito education, prevention and control efforts are working and hopeful that the impacted area will continue to be reduced as the DOH investigation continues. Earlier this summer, I authorized more than $26 million in state funds to fight Zika and as of today, more than $18 million has been allocated to local and state entities for mosquito prevention and control. We will continue to work closely with local officials to ensure their needs are met and we are prepared to allocate more if needed.
"I still have outstanding requests that I put into the Obama Administration that I am waiting on and I am disappointed that Congress has not come back to work to deal with this national issue. The president and Congress must work together to get to a solution for all the families across our nation."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/08/11/gov-scott-doh-clears-additional-portion-of-impacted-area-in-wynwood/
