Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott and Emergency Management Officials Conduct Emergency Preparedness Review of Florida's Nuclear Power Plants
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 14, 2011
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Following ongoing events at nuclear power facilities in Japan, Governor Rick Scott asked Florida Division of Emergency Management Director Bryan W. Koon to review Florida's emergency action plans should any of the state's five nuclear reactors face a natural or manmade disaster.
"This weekend, Director Koon and his staff made a comprehensive review of the State's action plans to ensure Florida is prepared to face a disaster of this magnitude," said Governor Scott. "The information I've received shows that across state agencies, in conjunction with federal partners and utility operators, we are prepared for an effective and rapid emergency response."
Florida has five active nuclear energy reactors operating at three facilities. There are three additional facilities within 100 miles of Florida's borders. Utility operators coordinate frequent emergency preparedness drills with government agencies at the local, state and federal level. The Florida Division of Emergency Management has the overall responsibility for coordination of the response to a nuclear power plant emergency.
"At Governor Scott's direction, we reviewed Florida's plans and preparedness at our nuclear power facilities," said Director Koon. "Annually, each Florida nuclear facility conducts exercises to test many different scenarios to ensure that there are plans in place and we are prepared for any event. We are confident in our ability to respond and our review affirmed our readiness."
The following Q&A provides more information about the impact of a disaster on Florida's nuclear power plants and the safety measures currently in place: http://www.flgov.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/Nuclear-Power-Incident-Preparedness-in-Florida.pdf.
"Like the rest of the world, the people of Florida are watching the unfolding tragedy in the wake of earthquakes and tsunamis across the Pacific Rim. Our hearts and prayers go out to the victims, and Florida stands ready to assist in any way possible," said Governor Scott.
For more information about Florida's Radiological Emergency Preparedness Program, visit:
http://www.floridadisaster.org/Preparedness/TechnologicalHazards/Radiological/index.htm

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2011/03/14/governor-rick-scott-and-emergency-management-officials-conduct-emergency-preparedness-review-of-florida%E2%80%99s-nuclear-power-plants/
