Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Four New Individuals With Zika in Miami - Congress Must Come Back to Work
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 9, 2016
Location: Live Oak, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the Florida Department of Health (DOH) has identified four additional people in Florida with the Zika virus who likely contracted it through a mosquito bite. This brings the total number of people with locally transmitted Zika to 21. DOH still believes active transmissions are only taking place within the identified area that is less than one-square mile in Miami-Dade County. More details will be announced when the investigation concludes.
Governor Scott said, "Today, we have learned that there are four new individuals that have local transmissions of Zika in our state, likely through a mosquito bite. All four of these cases are located in the same, small area of Wynwood that is less than one square mile. Earlier this summer, I allocated more than $26 million in state funds to fight Zika and I have continued to meet with local leaders to ensure they have all of the needed resources. But, every day that passes that Congress and the president fail to come to an agreement hinders our national response to Zika. This is not only an issue affecting us here in Florida -- this is a national issue. Florida is just at the head of it with the first cases of local transmission of Zika. Just today, we learned that a baby born with microcephaly caused by Zika died in Texas -- a heartbreaking tragedy in our country.
"While Florida has been preparing for Zika since February, we know many other states don't have the same resources we have. The Obama Administration has still not fulfilled our requests for an additional 10,000 Zika prevention kits for pregnant women or a detailed plan on how they would like Florida to work with FEMA on requesting emergency response funds since this has become mosquito-borne in our state. The federal government must stop playing politics and Congress needs to immediately come back to session to resolve this."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/08/09/gov-scott-four-new-individuals-with-zika-in-miami-congress-must-come-back-to-work/
