Public Statements
Rick Scott Lays Out A New Path For Education In Florida
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 28, 2010
Location: Fort Lauderdale, FL

"It Is Time That The Money Follows The Student And Not The System."
Today at the North Broward Academy of Excellence, Rick Scott discussed the Florida education system and the revolutionary changes he plans to institute when Governor.
To read the entire plan, please visit: http://www.rickscottforflorida.com/home/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/Scott_Rick_EducationBook_Online.pdf
"It is time we make a firm commitment to the positive educational outcome Floridians deserve and have a right to expect. It is time we recognize changes in society and technology are driving a need for change in our public education system, and our students need to take center stage.
"And it is time that the money follows the student and not the system.
"As a successful businessman, I know the importance of education in growing the economy.
"Simply throwing more taxpayer dollars at an outdated system like my opponent wants to do is not enough.
"For Florida to attract business, compete effectively in the global economy, and create 21st century jobs, we must have an educated workforce. It is time to create an educational framework that is customized so that each student can reach his or her potential and help get Florida back to work.
"The key ingredients we need to do this include: Measuring and Improving, Student Readiness, Expanding School Choice, Virtual and Online Education, Mentoring Programs, Preparing A New Workforce.
"I believe the only measure of success for Florida's education model should be based on learning gains by our children and the readiness of students to enter institutions of higher education or the workforce.
"Florida is fortunate to already be leading the nation in education gains, but to realize our full potential, we must adapt to more innovative methods of ensuring better educational outcomes for our students -- without politics getting in the way of providing our children with a world class education. There is no one silver bullet, but I believe it is possible to transform the current system while empowering students, parents, and educators to ensure a better quality of life for all Floridians."

Source: http://www.rickscottforflorida.com/home/news/press-releases/2010/09/28/rick-scott-lays-out-a-new-path-for-education-in-florida/
