Public Statements
National Federation Of Independent Business Endorses Rick Scott
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 10, 2010
Location: Fort Lauderdale, FL

The Rick Scott for Governor campaign today announced the endorsement of the National Federation of Independent Business/Florida, the state's leading small business association. The endorsement was made during a campaign event at NFIB member Jerry Pierce's business, Restaurant Equipment World, in Orlando, Florida.
"As a business owner himself, we believe Rick Scott understands the small business community's role in improving the state's economic conditions and we are proud to endorse him for Governor of Florida," said Bill Herrle, NFIB/Florida's executive director. "Scott's message "Let's Get to Work' resonates deeply with small business owners. They share with him the experiences of building a business from the ground up and facing burdensome taxes and regulations that can threaten their livelihood. Scott's first-hand knowledge of running a small business makes him an ideal candidate to help lead our state back to prosperity."
"As someone who knows what it takes to build a business from scratch, and a believer in the power of small business to reigniting our state's economy, I am proud to receive the endorsement of the National Federation of Independent Business," said Rick Scott. "We need to bring NFIB's entrepreneurial spirit back to Tallahassee; I have a plan to provide a business approach to politics by keeping taxes low, limiting job killing regulations and getting government out of the way of small business so they can do what they do best: create jobs."
There are approximately 10,000 NFIB small business owners in Florida. The endorsement comes from NFIB's Save America's Free Enterprise Trust, the association's political action committee, and is based on positions on key small business issues including healthcare, taxes, and labor and regulatory issues.

Source: http://www.rickscottforflorida.com/home/news/press-releases/2010/09/10/national-federation-of-independent-business-endorses-rick-scott/
