Public Statements
Gov. Scott: With Likely Mosquito-Borne Zika Cases, State Will Use Full Resources to Protect Floridians
Debate
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 29, 2016
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the Florida Department of Health (DOH) has concluded that four cases of the Zika virus are likely mosquito-borne. DOH knows that the four cases are in Miami-Dade and Broward Counties. One of these cases involves a woman and the other three cases involve men. At this time, DOH believes that active transmissions of the Zika virus are occurring in one small area in Miami-Dade County, just north of downtown. The exact location is within the boundaries of the following area: NW 5th Avenue to the west, US 1 to the east, NW/NE 38th Street to the north and NW/NE 20th Street to the south. This area is about 1 square mile and a map is below to detail the area. This is currently the only area of the state where DOH is testing to see if there are local transmissions of Zika. They are all active Zika cases and have not exhibited symptoms to be admitted to the hospital.
Governor Scott said, "We learned today that four people in our state likely have the Zika virus as a result of a mosquito bite. All four of these people live in Miami-Dade and Broward Counties and the Florida Department of Health believes that active transmissions of this virus could be occurring in one small area in Miami. While no mosquitoes have tested positive for the Zika virus, DOH is aggressively testing people in this area to ensure there are no other cases. If you live in this area and want to be tested, I urge you to contact the county health department which stands ready to assist you.
"Since our first travel-related case in February, Florida has taken an aggressive approach and committed state and local resources to combat this virus. Just like with a hurricane, we have worked hard to stay ahead of the spread of Zika and prepare for the worst, even as we hope for the best. Now that Florida has become the first state to have a local transmission, likely through a mosquito, we will continue to put every resource available to fighting the spread of Zika in our state. Last month, I used my emergency executive authority to allocate $26.2 million in state funds for Zika preparedness, prevention and response in Florida. I will continue to travel the state and speak with local leaders, ports and airports to ensure their needs are met. If it becomes clear more resources are needed, we will not hesitate to allocate them.

Source:
