Public Statements
Rick Scott Announces Rep. Jennifer Carroll Is His Lieutenant Governor Pick
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 2, 2010
Location: Fort Lauderdale, FL

Rick Scott announced that Representative Jennifer Carroll of Fleming Island will be his pick for Lieutenant Governor. Carroll is the House Representative for District 13, which is in Jacksonville. Carroll is the first African American Republican woman to be part of a statewide ticket in Florida. She was born in Port of Spain, Trinidad West Indies and legally immigrated to the United States as a young girl. Like Rick, Carroll served in the United States Navy. Her career in uniform spanned 20 years, she started as an enlisted servicemember and worked her way up to officer. She is also a small business owner who believes in conservative principles and knows what is needed to create jobs. She shares Rick's conservative values -- both believe in small government, lower taxes, reducing regulation, personal responsibility and personal freedom. Carroll also opposes using stimulus money to paper over deficits, government control of healthcare through Obamacare, and increased regulation like cap and trade.
"I am very pleased to announce that Jennifer Carroll is joining me on this campaign to change Florida for the better," said Scott. "She is the embodiment of the American Dream. She came to America as a young girl, decided to serve her country with the United States Navy, pursued a higher education, started a small business, and then was elected the first African American female Republican in the Florida State Legislature. Her conservative principles are in line with mine and ensures this fall will present a clear choice between conservatives with business experience and a plan to create 700,000 jobs and liberal Obamacrats who want to bring the failed Obama agenda to Florida."
"I want to thank Rick Scott for the opportunity to join him in this race as his pick for Lieutenant Governor," said Carroll. "Floridians are ready to elect a conservative outsider with private sector experience and a plan to create 700,000 jobs. Rick and I share core conservative principles like lower taxes, less regulation, and smaller government. I look forward to campaigning with Rick against Alex Sink, Rod Smith and their liberal agenda."

Source: http://www.rickscottforflorida.com/home/news/press-releases/2010/09/02/rick-scott-announces-rep-jennifer-carroll-is-his-lieutenant-governor-pick/
