Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces KLS Martin Group Establishing First U.S. Manufacturing Operations in Jacksonville
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 20, 2016
Location: Jacksonville, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced The KLS Martin Group, a global leader in innovative surgical technology, is establishing its first U.S. manufacturing operations in Jacksonville. KLS Martin Manufacturing will create at least 25 new jobs and invest more than $5 million in the local community. The KLS Martin Group currently employs more than 150 Floridians.
Governor Scott said, "I am proud to announce that KLS Martin has chosen Jacksonville as the best place to establish its first U.S. manufacturing operations and create 25 new jobs. Our work to make Florida the most business-friendly state in the nation is encouraging more and more job creators to invest in our state and create new opportunities for our families."
KLS Martin Manufacturing will bring high-tech, high-skilled manufacturing and engineering jobs to Jacksonville. The focus of the new operations will be on precision 3D printing and milling of products for reconstructive surgery. The KLS Martin Group established KLS Martin LP, in 1993, as a sales company that is headquartered in Jacksonville and serves as the North American arm of the company's global network. Headquartered in Germany, KLS Martin works closely with medical specialists to continuously optimize medical technology solutions and currently employs more than 1,000 people worldwide.
Tom Johnston, of KLS Martin Manufacturing, said, "The KLS Martin Group is excited to establish its first surgical implant manufacturing company outside of Germany here in Jacksonville. This new company will allow the KLS Martin Group to provide innovative products through cutting edge 3D printing technology that will improve patient care and surgical outcomes."
Florida's advanced manufacturing industries are diverse and include sectors producing intermediate and finished products ranging from 3D printing to plastics to aerospace vehicles. In total, Florida is home to over 19,000 manufacturers employing more than 331,000 workers.
Crystal Sircy, Enterprise Florida's executive vice president and COO, said, "Florida's job creators are growing across the state. Global leaders like KLS Martin are helping us demonstrate the state's position as the best place for businesses to grow, and this new facility -- their first in the nation -- allows us to further tell Florida's success story."
Partners in this headquarters project include Enterprise Florida, Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, City of Jacksonville, JAXUSA and CareerSource Florida.
Cissy Proctor, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, said, "The strategic investments and tax cuts Florida has championed for high-tech manufacturers is helping to attract new companies like KLS Martin to our state. I am excited to welcome KLS and its 25 new manufacturing jobs to Jacksonville and our greater Florida community."
Mayor Lenny Curry said "KLS Martin is a global market leader in innovation and medical technology. Their expansion in Jacksonville is a tremendous asset to our city and demonstrates our commitment to fostering an environment that contributes to increased economic development, improved quality of life offerings, and a skilled and talented workforce. I could not be more thrilled for the opportunities this creates for our citizens and community."
CareerSource Florida President and CEO Chris Hart IV said, "The selection of Florida as the site for KLS Martin Group's first U.S. manufacturing facility is a testament to the state's increasingly skilled workforce. Ranked second in the nation for FDA registered medical device manufacturing facilities, Florida is home to nearly 19,000 workers in this industry. We are proud to partner with businesses, like KLS Martin Group, to contribute to the state's economy and the growth of this industry."
The company considered a number of cities across the country when deciding on a site for its manufacturing operations. Ultimately, Jacksonville's competitive location, access to talent and current footprint were key reasons in the company's decision.
Jacksonville City Council Member Greg Anderson, who was council president when the project was approved by the council earlier this year, said, "KLS Martin is an outstanding company and we are thrilled its leaders have decided to expand their footprint in Jacksonville. These are the type of highly-skilled, advanced manufacturing jobs we are looking to create, and we thank KLS Martin for their investment in Northeast Florida."
Mark Frisch, JAXUSA Partnership Chair, said, "It's always encouraging when a company has one line of its business here and then chooses Jacksonville when it's time to invest and grow another division. This project with KLS Martin is another great example that we are a place full of wide-open opportunities for global companies across our target industries and have the skilled workforce businesses need to succeed."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/07/20/gov-scott-announces-kls-martin-group-establishing-first-u-s-manufacturing-operations-in-jacksonville/
