Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces Arthrex to Add 560 Jobs in Collier County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 19, 2016
Location: Naples, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Arthrex, a medical device manufacturer, will be expanding its operations in North Naples, creating 560 jobs and investing more than $63 million in Collier County. Arthrex currently employs more than 2,200 Floridians.
Governor Scott said, "I am proud to announce that Arthrex is continuing to expand in Florida and will be creating more than 500 new jobs for families in Collier County. More and more manufacturing companies are choosing to invest and create new opportunities in our state because of our work to cut taxes and make it easier for job creators to succeed. I look forward to seeing Arthrex's continued growth as we work to make Florida first for jobs."
Arthrex has been based in Naples since 1991, and over the last 25 years, the company has grown into a global leader in arthroscopic surgery, developing more than 9,500 innovative products and surgical procedures to advance minimally invasive orthopedics worldwide. Today, Arthrex trains thousands of surgeons annually at its medical education facility in Naples and more than 90 percent of Arthrex's products are manufactured in the United States and exported to more than 100 countries around the world. The company has been named one of the Top 100 Best Companies to Work For by Fortune Magazine and was No. 3 out of the 15 Best Workplaces in Manufacturing and Production in the country.
Reinhold Schmieding, President and Founder of Arthrex, said, "Arthrex is committed to reinvesting in our community, and the best investment is growing our business right here in Southwest Florida. This investment will help us expand our research, manufacturing product development and medical education to help improve the lives of people in Southwest Florida with our company and around the world with our products."
Florida is ranked 2nd among states for FDA registered medical device manufacturing facilities. The state has firmly established itself as a true hub for the life sciences and is home to some of the nation's most highly regarded research centers; more than 1,100 biotech, pharmaceutical and medical devices companies; and a foundation of more than 46,000 healthcare establishments.

Source:
