Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announced 1,200 New Florida Jobs During London Trade Mission
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 14, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

This week, Governor Rick Scott announced that a total of 1,200 jobs will be created in Florida during the Farnborough International Air Show in London.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We have traveled across the world to share Florida's success story and encourage more businesses to move to and invest in our state. During the Farnborough International Air Show, I was proud to share this message with many leaders of the global aerospace and aviation industry. I also announced the creation of 1,200 new jobs across Florida. We will continue to do all we can to make Florida more competitive so we can become the global destination for jobs."
The following are details on the jobs announcements made by Governor Scott in London:
Thales, a global technology leader for the aerospace, transport, defense and security markets, will expand in Florida, adding 327 new jobs in Melbourne and 173 new jobs in Orlando.
HAECO Americas, an aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) service company, will expand their Lake City facility and add 400 jobs in Columbia County.
Lockheed Martin, a global security and aerospace company, plans to expand its Astrotech Space Operations site on the Space Coast, creating up to 300 jobs.
JetSmarter, a mobile app-based private jet service, is expanding and creating new jobs at their headquarters Fort Lauderdale.
Alan Pellegrini, President and CEO of Thales USA, said, "Thanks to the leadership of Governor Scott and other state and local officials, we are pleased to be able to further expand our competitive footprint in Florida. The state's pro-business agenda is helping to enable our targeted growth."
Kip Blakely, HAECO Americas' Vice President for Customer and Government Relations, said "HAECO Americas is delighted to have the opportunity to expand its capabilities and capacity in Columbia County. Lake City has been a great home for us for decades, and we are pleased to be able to expand the opportunities this creates for us and our customers in developing aviation talent in north Florida."
Tom Malko, Vice President of Assembly, Test and Launch Operations at Lockheed Martin Space Systems, said, "We have sites across the country, but Brevard County offers a unique blend of skilled people and a growth-friendly business environment that make it a great fit for this project. Partnering with the community creates a win-win for Florida, for Lockheed Martin and for our customers."
Sergey Petrossov, CEO of JetSmarter, said, "JetSmarter has made private air travel more accessible around the world. Everywhere we are located; we work closely with government entities, and appreciate the support of Governor Scott and other partners as we continue to expand our corporate headquarters in Fort Lauderdale."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/07/14/governor-rick-scott-announced-1200-new-florida-jobs-during-london-trade-mission/
