Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces Bertram LLC Picks Florida for Intl. Headquarters; Will Add 140 jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 13, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Bertram LLC will establish its international headquarters in Tampa and create 140 new jobs with a $35 million capital investment in the local community. The company chose Florida over North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia as the best location for their new manufacturing facility.
Governor Scott said, "I am proud to announce that Bertram has chosen Florida over North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia as the best state to locate their international headquarters which will create 140 new jobs in Florida. This announcement follows the over 1,000 new jobs I announced at the Farnborough Air Show in London this week. We will continue to do all we can to welcome new businesses to Florida, and we are proud to welcome Bertram to the Sunshine State."
Peter Truslow, CEO of Bertram LLC, said, "This announcement signals another exciting chapter in the history of Bertram Yachts. We are proud to partner with the State of Florida, Hillsborough County, and the City of Tampa and look forward to building our organization's future here. Our new headquarters will attract yacht owners, their associates, and crew members from around the world to Tampa to monitor progress on the construction of their new vessels and have them serviced and maintained."
Bertram Yacht got its start in 1960 when founder Dick Bertram, a yacht broker, bluewater sailing yacht racer, and powerboat racer, built the first Bertram, the 31-foot fiberglass Moppie. In 2015, Bertram was acquired by a group headed by Beniamino Gavio. Their new facility in tampa will include include the headquarter offices, production, tooling storage, yacht service, maintenance and refit operations, and parts sales.
Thanks in part to its leading business climate, workforce, and trade and infrastructure, Florida ranks among the nation's top 10 states for manufacturing and is home to more than 18,600 manufacturing companies. The state's more than 321,000 manufacturing employees produce a wide variety of goods including boats, aerospace products, batteries, pharmaceuticals, semiconductors and more.
"This is a great win for Tampa Bay and the state," said Crystal Sircy, executive vice president and COO of Enterprise Florida. "Florida is synonymous with boating, not only for recreation but for manufacturing and innovation as well. Manufacturers like Bertram help us solidify the state's position as a top location for boat makers, and we thank them for choosing Florida."
This project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation, Hillsborough County, and the City of Tampa.
"Three other states did their best to lure Bertram's international headquarters, and the competition for this project was intense," said the Hon. Leslie "Les" Miller, Chair of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners. "Hillsborough County has the business climate, workforce, and quality of life our competitors simply could not beat. We are excited to welcome Bertram to Hillsborough County and thank them for their investment in our community."
Bertram LLC joins a growing list of diverse companies that have recently established their international, national, or regional headquarters in Tampa and Hillsborough County, including Ashley Furniture Industries' Ashcomm, Johnson & Johnson, Cody Talbert Distribution, TransferWise, and Cohesion.
Mayor Bob Buckhorn of the City of Tampa said, "We are honored to have one of our nation's most iconic brands in the boating industry call Tampa home. Bertram recognizes what people around the world are realizing -- that this city is on the rise. We are excited to have Bertram with us on this journey, and we will make sure they find the talent and support here that they need to be successful."
"Bertram's selection of Tampa is a big win for Hillsborough County and the entire Tampa Bay region," said Colleen Chappell, Chair of the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation and CEO of ChappellRoberts. "Manufacturing projects are among the most competitive and highly prized in economic development, and as the boating industry show signs of recovery and expansion, we're well-positioned to leverage this momentum."
Individuals interested in employment opportunities with Bertram are encouraged to visit http://www.bertram.com.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/07/13/gov-scott-announces-bertram-llc-picks-florida-for-intl-headquarters-will-add-140-jobs/
