Public Statements
From London, Governor Scott Announces Lockheed Martin Will Add Up to 300 Jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 12, 2016
Location: London, United Kingdom

Today, during an economic development mission to London, Governor Rick Scott announced that Lockheed Martin plans to expand capabilities at its Astrotech Space Operations site in Titusville, Florida, creating up to 300 jobs.
Governor Rick Scott said, "Florida is home to one of the largest aerospace and aviation industries in the nation and we continue to grow. It's exciting that Lockheed Martin continues to expand in Florida, adding hundreds of jobs for our families. We will do all we can to make it easier for businesses like Lockheed Martin to succeed in Florida."
With a history in Florida going back 60 years, Lockheed Martin has had a significant presence at Cape Canaveral. A wholly-owned subsidiary of Lockheed Martin, Astrotech Space Operations has prepared more than 300 payloads for launch since 1984.
Tom Malko, Vice President of Assembly, Test and Launch Operations at Lockheed Martin Space Systems, said, "We have sites across the country, but Brevard County offers a unique blend of skilled people and a growth-friendly business environment that make it a great fit for this project. Partnering with the community creates a win-win for Florida, for Lockheed Martin and for our customers."
The company considered a number of locations across the country that could handle additional work and selected Brevard County because it offers the best blend of talent and business opportunity for this project. Astrotech Space Operations offers payload processing services--like encapsulating and fueling a satellite for launch--for a range of customers. Under the planned expansion, its scope of work could potentially include production of aerospace components and subsystems. Lockheed Martin is currently evaluating options that are contingent on the completion of additional business case analyses. Those analyses are slated to occur in 2016 and 2017.

Source:
