Public Statements
Miami Marlins Donates $15,000 to the Florida Disaster Fund for Orlando Terror Attack Victims
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 11, 2016
Location: Miami, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott recognized the Miami Marlins for collecting $15,000 in donations for the Florida Disaster Fund to support the organizations that serve survivors, families and all those in need following the Orlando terror attack last month.
Governor Scott said, "We are very grateful to the Miami Marlins for collecting $15,000 in donations for the Florida Disaster Fund for victims of the Orlando terror attack at Pulse Nightclub. Following this horrific attack on our state, we have seen businesses and organizations like the Miami Marlins display an incredible commitment to providing survivors, their loved ones, and all those affected by this loss with the support and care they need. We will continue do everything we can to support the Orlando community."
David P. Samson, President of the Miami Marlins, said, "The Miami Marlins are honored to come together with our fans to mourn the victims and offer our support to the survivors of the Orlando terror attack. We appreciate everyone who participated in raising these funds and hope that these donations will send a message of hope to the Orlando community to let them know that the Marlins stand with them during this incredibly difficult time."
The Florida Disaster Fund is the State of Florida's official private fund established to assist Florida's communities as they respond to and recover during times of emergency or disaster. In partnership with the public sector, private sector and other non-governmental organizations, the Florida Disaster Fund supports response and recovery activities. There is no overhead funding; 100% of funds raised will go toward those in need. Donations to the Florida Disaster Fund are made to the Volunteer Florida Foundation, 501(c)(3) charitable organization and are tax deductible. To make a contribution, please visit www.FloridaDisasterFund.org.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/07/11/miami-marlins-donates-15000-to-the-florida-disaster-fund-for-orlando-terror-attack-victims/
