Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Mercedes-Benz USA to Expand in Jacksonville
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 5, 2016
Location: Jacksonville, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Mercedes-Benz USA (MBUSA), a division of Daimler AG, will be relocating an engineering services division from New Jersey to Jacksonville. The company is adding the engineering services division to its Quality Evaluation Center (QEC) in Jacksonville. The 50 jobs will be a mix of employees relocating to Northeast Florida and new hires from the local market. Mercedes-Benz currently employs more than 100 Floridians at the Jacksonville facility.
Governor Scott said, "I am proud to announce that Mercedes-Benz USA has chosen Florida over New Jersey as the best place to grow their company and create jobs for Jacksonville families. With no income tax, a low business tax, and a focus on helping businesses succeed, it is clear why more companies are choosing to invest in our state. I look forward to seeing Mercedes-Benz USA's continued success in Jacksonville as we continue to work each day to help Florida outcompete other states for new opportunities."
Mercedes-Benz USA began operations in Jacksonville in 2010 and has invested more than $20 million in its 500,000 sq. ft. Jacksonville facility. Jacksonville's Mercedes-Benz USA facility is located at the International Trade Port near the Jacksonville International Airport. The business units currently operating here include the Sales Operations Southern Regional Office, Parts Distribution Center, Quality Evaluation Center and Learning & Performance Center. The QEC is one of only two operational units of its kind outside of Germany.
Christian Treiber, vice president of customer services for MBUSA, said, "This consolidation in our state-of-the-art Jacksonville campus will facilitate the interaction between key technical and engineering support areas which is a key component to providing a world-class customer experience."
Cissy Proctor, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, said, "Florida continues to outshine other states as a great place to do business. Mercedes-Benz chose Florida over expansion in another state because of our talented tech workforce and business-friendly climate. The company's relocation announcement is great news for Florida jobseekers."
Jacksonville Mayor Lenny Curry said, "Mercedes-Benz USA's selection of our city is great news for Jacksonville. This further demonstrates that the momentum is with us as our local economy continues to grow, creating highly-skilled jobs and more opportunities for our citizens and their families."
Jacksonville City Council Member Greg Anderson, who was council president when the project was approved, said, "I appreciate the support from my colleagues on the City Council for approving this outstanding deal as Project Grace last month. This is another example of how we can strengthen our economy when local and state leaders are working together with a common goal of growing jobs in our community."
Mark Frisch, JAXUSA Partnership Chair, said, "The Jacksonville region has a growing list of international companies that choose our area for highly specialized operations. Mercedes-Benz decision to consolidate jobs and continue to invest here further solidifies our city as a place full of wide-open opportunity for global businesses to grow."
Mercedes-Benz USA (MBUSA), headquartered in Atlanta, is responsible for the distribution, marketing and customer service for all Mercedes-Benz products in the United States. MBUSA offers drivers the most diverse lineup in the luxury segment with 15 model lines ranging from the sporty CLA-Class four-door coupe to the flagship S-Class and the Mercedes-AMG GT S.
MBUSA is also responsible for Mercedes-Benz Vans and smart products in the U.S. More information on MBUSA and its products can be found at www.mbusa.com, www.mbsprinterusa.com and www.smartusa.com.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/07/05/gov-scott-mercedes-benz-usa-to-expand-in-jacksonville/
