Public Statements
Governor Scott Ceremonially Signs Detention Cost-Share Bill
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 29, 2016
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott ceremonially signed SB 1322 which establishes a 50-50 split of juvenile detention costs between the state of Florida and certain counties. Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) Commissioner Rick Swearingen is also announcing today that FDLE will begin waiving the $75 records expungement application fee for juveniles following their completion of a pre-arrest or post-arrest diversion program or those in the care of a foster family starting July 1.
Governor Scott said, "This legislation strengthens our partnership with Florida's counties so we can focus even more on investing in services for our youth. Florida's juvenile arrest rate is at a more than 30-year low thanks to important reforms at DJJ and investments we are making for youth prevention programs. I also want to thank Commissioner Swearingen and FDLE for waiving fees which will make it easier for juveniles to get an education, a great job or join the military. These measures will ensure that Florida's juvenile justice system remains a national leader and our children have the support they need."
DJJ Secretary Christina Daly said, "I am honored to join Governor Rick Scott today as he ceremonially signs this important piece of legislation. Thanks to the Governor's leadership and the hard work of our bill sponsors, Senator Jack Latvala and Representative Chris Latvala, DJJ and Florida's counties have turned the page on the juvenile detention cost share dispute and stand together in our renewed partnership and shared efforts in reducing juvenile delinquency and making our communities safer.
FDLE Commissioner Rick Swearingen said, "Earlier this year, FDLE in partnership with the Children's Campaign and DJJ, began looking at what we could do to make the expungement process more affordable for children and their families. Waiving this fee will ease some of the barriers these young people face when attempting to clear their non-violent, misdemeanor record."
Senator Jack Latvala said, "It is great to join Governor Scott and other proponents of SB 1322 today to ceremonially sign this important legislation. SB 1322 will streamline a billing process between counties across Florida and DJJ to help save taxpayer dollars."
Representative Chris Latvala said, "I am proud to have worked on this bill last legislative session to ensure a cost-sharing agreement between Florida counties and DJJ. This important measure will support our communities, and I want to thank Governor Scott for ceremonially signing SB 1322 into law today."
Barbara Sharief, Florida Association of Counties President, said, "We are thrilled to join the Governor on this victory establishing a 50/50 split of juvenile detention costs between the state of Florida and counties. This legislation ended years of bad billing, thick bureaucracy and lawsuits and will allow the counties and state to move forward as partners."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/06/29/governor-scott-ceremonially-signs-detention-cost-share-bill/
