Public Statements
DOH Confirms First Zika-Related Case of Microcephaly in Florida; Governor Scott Calls on CDC to Host Call with Medical Professionals
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 28, 2016
Location: West Palm Beach, FL

Today, the Florida Department of Health announced the first confirmed case of microcephaly in an infant born in Florida whose mother had a travel-related case of Zika. The mother of the infant contracted Zika while in Haiti. Following the confirmation of this case, Governor Rick Scott called on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to host a call with Florida medical professionals, including OBGYNs and physicians specializing in family medicine, to discuss the neurological impacts of Zika and what precautions new and expecting mothers should take.
Governor Scott said, "It is heartbreaking to learn that a baby has been born with Zika-related microcephaly in our state and my thoughts and prayers are with the mother and child. Following this news, I have requested the CDC to immediately host a call with Florida health care professionals to discuss the neurological impacts of Zika and how this virus impacts new and expecting moms. The Olympics will begin in less than 40 days and millions of Americans will travel through our state to and from Brazil, a country where the Zika virus is rapidly spreading, and we must be prepared.
"Last week, following Washington's failure to approve funding for Zika preparedness, I used my emergency executive authority to allocate $26.2 million in state funds for Zika preparedness, prevention and response in Florida. While these funds will be incredibly useful in our fight against the Zika virus, Washington must also recognize that Zika is not just a Florida issue, but a national emergency. Florida has continued to step-up and fund issues when the federal government has failed to show up and Washington has to stop playing politics with the health, safety and well-being of Florida's families.
"Now that a baby has been born in our state with adverse impacts from Zika, it is clear that every available resource is needed to prevent local transmissions in our state."
The Florida Department of Health is working with the family to connect the child to services through the Early Steps program.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/06/28/doh-confirms-first-zika-related-case-of-microcephaly-in-florida-governor-scott-calls-on-cdc-to-host-call-with-medical-professionals/
