Public Statements
Gov. Scott: FDLE and DCF Providing Funds to Help With Orlando Terror Attack
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 15, 2016
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that FDLE has set aside more than $520,000 in residual Justice Assistance Grant funds for the City of Orlando and Orange County to be used for overtime pay for law enforcement and equipment associated with the terror attack. FDLE also requested $2 million in emergency Justice Assistance Grant funds from the Department of Justice to help with similar costs. The Florida Department of Children and Families is also directing $500,000 in funding to local providers for crisis counseling services which include grief counseling, trauma support, and emotional support for victims and their families and loved ones.
Governor Scott said, "We will continue to do all we can to help Orlando heal and our state agencies are doing everything possible to provide assistance to those impacted by this horrific tragedy. FDLE has been working with their local partners around the clock, but additional funding from the federal Department of Justice is needed to help support the ongoing investigation. DCF is also working to coordinate with counselors on the frontline to offer essential services to victims' families and provide a supportive place for individuals to grieve loved ones. I appreciate the dedication of our state agencies and local organizations as we continue to work together to support the Orlando community."
FDLE Commissioner Rick Swearingen said, "FDLE members statewide are working hard to support local law enforcement following the Pulse nightclub shooting. FDLE agents continue to work with our partners painstakingly investigating the shooting and FDLE members also identified more than $520,000 to be shared with Orlando PD and Orange County SO to help them with expenses associated with the shooting."
DCF Secretary Mike Carroll said, "As we rally to support and console survivors, victims' families, and residents impacted by the shootings, we not only can offer resources to help them find the strength and resilience to overcome, we can, as an organization and as individuals, show how this event can serve to renew our faith in humanity. We will remain steadfast in working with our partners to provide grief and crisis counseling to all those in need."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/06/15/gov-scott-fdle-and-dcf-providing-funds-to-help-with-orlando-terror-attack/
