Public Statements
Gov. Scott Encourages Life-Saving Blood Donations on World Blood Donor Day
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 14, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, on World Blood Donor Day, Governor Rick Scott encouraged Floridians interested in making live saving blood donations to immediately set up an appointment to give. Interested blood donors can make appointments over the next few weeks to help replenish the blood supply by visiting www.oneblood.org.
Governor Scott said, "In the wake of this attack, we have seen an overwhelming response in the amount of people who volunteered to donate blood in order to help those in need. Donating blood is an act that saves lives- a fact that can be seen in the health of the patients successfully recovering. As we recognize today as World Blood Donor Day, I encourage those interested in making a donation to make an appointment today in support of our blood centers and communities throughout Florida."
State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. Celeste Philip said, "On behalf of the entire department, I want to extend our thoughts and prayers to all of those affected by the recent tragedy in Orlando. Our department has been working closely with Orlando blood banks, and we are humbled by the outpouring of support and donations from the local community. On World Blood Donor Day, I ask that all Floridians consider making the lifesaving decision to give blood today."
The Florida Department of Health continues to work with local, state and federal partners on a coordinated response and is closely monitoring the supply of blood in the Orlando area. Citizens with O negative and AB blood types are considered universal donors and are encouraged to consider making a life-saving donation over the next few weeks. Other blood type needs will be announced as they are identified.
Florida residents outside the Orlando area are also encouraged to donate regularly -- one donation can save up to three lives. Individuals can donate every 56 days for a total of six donations a year.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/06/14/gov-scott-encourages-life-saving-blood-donations-on-world-blood-donor-day/
