Public Statements
Governor Scott Activates Virtual Business Emergency Operations Center to Assist Orlando Businesses Affected by Terror Attack
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 14, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the State Emergency Response Team has activated the Florida Virtual Business Emergency Operations Center to provide assistance to local businesses impacted by the terror attack in Orlando. The program is managed by the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity (DEO) and will survey businesses affected by the tragedy. DEO will share the results with various state and local agencies to implement appropriate relief programs.
Governor Rick Scott said, "The Orlando community and local business owners have come together and responded to this heartbreaking tragedy in the best way possible. We are incredibly thankful for the support demonstrated by businesses located on Orange Avenue and throughout the Orlando community this week. We must continue to work together and assist the Orlando community and all those affected in any way we can."
DEO Executive Director Cissy Proctor said, "Our thoughts and prayers are with the families, friends, loved ones and neighbors affected by the tragic attack on Orlando. Florida communities are resilient and strong, and DEO is committed to using all of our available resources to helping the local area recover."
Affected businesses should complete a Business Damage Assessment survey that will be used to determine which emergency support programs might be beneficial to help impacted local businesses. Local and state officials will use this information to quickly provide any needed assistance programs.
The Florida Department of Economic Opportunity (DEO) is working with businesses in Florida and across the nation that are interested in supporting the victims and families of the Orlando shooting.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/06/14/governor-scott-activates-virtual-business-emergency-operations-center-to-assist-orlando-businesses-affected-by-terror-attack/
