Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Florida Continues to Lead the Nation in Saltwater Fishing Jobs and Revenue
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 10, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission announced that Florida remains number one in revenue and jobs supported by recreational saltwater fishing in the nation. The data, released by NOAA Fisheries, measures the economic impact of commercial and recreational saltwater fishing activities and fishing-related industries across the nation. According to the report, which covers the most recent data up to 2014, Florida is number one in the nation in jobs supported by the recreational saltwater fishing industry at 114,898.
Governor Rick Scott said, "I am proud to announce that Florida is leading the nation in jobs supported by the recreational saltwater fishing industry. Our state's world class boating and fishing also helped attract a record 105 million tourists in 2015, and we are on track for a sixth consecutive record year. As we go into the license-free freshwater fishing this weekend, I encourage all Florida residents and visitors to take advantage of this opportunity to enjoy our great outdoors and see for themselves why Florida is the Fishing Capital of the World."
FWC Executive Director Nick Wiley said, "I would like to thank Governor Scott and the Florida Legislature for recognizing the important role that Florida's recreational saltwater fishing has on our economy. FWC is glad that Florida's economy gets an important boost and many jobs are supported when Floridians and visitors enjoy a great fishing adventure."
Florida is also among the top in the nation when it comes to dollars and jobs generated by the commercial fishing industry. According to the report, Florida's commercial seafood industry is third in the nation in numbers of jobs supported with 92,858 jobs in 2014. Florida is also second in the nation when it comes to highest sales, income and value-added impacts from the commercial industry with 18.3 billion in sales impacts. The state is also number one in the nation when it comes to sales, income and value added dollars. The recreational saltwater fishing industry contributed more than $7.9 billion to the state's economy in 2014. Florida is also number one in number of trips taken by anglers at nearly 25 million. Florida's freshwater fisheries also supports another 14,000 jobs and has an additional $1.7 billion economic impact.
Learn more about the NOAA's Fisheries Economics of the United States, 2014, at www.st.nmfs.noaa.gov.
National Fishing and Boating Week is June 4-12. The Recreational Boating and Fishing Foundation's www.TakeMeFishing.org website is a great place to learn about events sponsored by businesses and communities during National Fishing and Boating Week, as well as locating fishing sites, identifying recreational species and finding fishing tips.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/06/10/gov-scott-florida-continues-to-lead-the-nation-in-saltwater-fishing-jobs-and-revenue/
