Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces GE's Creation of 30 New Jobs in Miami
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 9, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today Governor Rick Scott announced General Electric will be expanding their Miami facility and creating 30 new jobs. The 30 new jobs will be digital operations positions focusing on GE's Latin American network and delivery systems. GE currently employs 4,000 Floridians statewide, including 95 in the Miami area.
Governor Scott said, "I'm excited to announce that GE is expanding their already impressive presence in our state and creating 30 new jobs for families in Miami. Florida is the gateway to Latin America and we are becoming a leading technology hub, which is why companies like GE are choosing to invest and grow in our state. I look forward to GE's success as we continue to work toward diversifying Florida's economy so we can become first for jobs."
Chris Drumgoole, Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of General Electric, said, "GE is excited to grow our presence in Miami and leverage the existing talent combined with the rich emerging talent from local universities to provide IT services and operations focused on Latin America. The new technical roles join our growing IT organization that is focused on driving GE transformation into the premier digital industrial company."
Bill Johnson, President and CEO of Enterprise Florida, said, "General Electric's expansion of their Miami presence is great news for our state. With over 4,000 employees across Florida, GE has made it clear that Florida is a top destination for business. I look forward to their continued growth in our state as we work to be the global leader for job creation."
Cissy Proctor, Executive Director of the Department of Economic Opportunity, said, "As an international business hub, Miami continues to be a premier destination to live and work. Florida's competitive business climate and qualified talent pool make us the best state for a rapidly expanding company like GE to grow its business."
Larry K. Williams, President and CEO of Miami Dade's Beacon Council, said, "General Electric's decision to expand into Miami is consistent with our community's emergence as a technology hub. Our growing knowledge based economy provides well-paying jobs and will contribute to long term prosperity for all our residents."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/06/09/governor-scott-announces-ges-creation-of-30-new-jobs-in-miami/
