Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Connecticut Leaders Out of Touch with Business
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 15, 2017
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced he will be leading an economic development mission to Connecticut next week to share why businesses in Connecticut should consider moving their operations to Florida. This follows the recent establishment of the $85 million Florida Job Growth Grant Fund, which will help provide even more reasons for businesses to invest in Florida.
Governor Scott said, "By working with the Florida Legislature, over the past six and a half years we have cut more than $6.7 billion in taxes, reduced 4,800 burdensome regulations and made important investments to help create opportunities across Florida for future generations. With more than 1.35 million new jobs, an unemployment rate at a nearly 10-year low and a job growth rate that has exceeded the nation's for more than five consecutive years, there is no better place to grow a business than Florida. Meanwhile, Connecticut leaders are out of touch with business. Governor Malloy's administration has been trying, and failing, to tackle a budget deficit with an overwhelming collection of increased taxes and fees. Their job growth rate continues to lag far behind Florida and the nation, and Connecticut has lost more adjusted gross income and people to Florida than any other state in the nation.
"The business environment in Connecticut simply cannot compete with everything Florida has to offer. That is why I am leading an economic development mission to Connecticut to share this message firsthand with job creators and site selectors next week. With the recent establishment of the $85 million Florida Job Growth Grant Fund that the Legislature overwhelmingly passed last week, we have the important resources our state needs to encourage more businesses to choose Florida as the best destination to grow and create jobs. I look forward to meeting with Connecticut business leaders to explain how additional public infrastructure and individual job training through the Florida Job Growth Grant Fund will help create new opportunities for them to grow in the Sunshine State."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2017/06/15/gov-scott-connecticut-leaders-out-of-touch-with-business/
