Public Statements
Gov. Scott Reminds Floridians to Use Caution as Tropical Storm Colin Makes Landfall Tonight
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 6, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, following the 5:15 p.m. update on Tropical Storm Colin with the National Weather Service and National Hurricane Center, Governor Rick Scott reminded Floridians to continue to use caution and prepare for potential impacts of the storm. Thirty four counties are currently under a tropical storm warning and 59 counties are under flood watches.
Governor Scott said, "As our state continues to feel the impact of Tropical Storm Colin and it makes landfall this evening, it is critical that all Floridians use caution and remain alert. Tonight, areas across our state will continue to experience heavy rain, tropical storm force winds, possible tornadoes and flooding. We will continue to work collaboratively with the National Weather Service, National Hurricane Center and our county Emergency Management teams to provide regular updates and protect Florida's communities. It is important for all families to remain informed of the storm's movements and continue to exercise caution before leaving home as rain chances are expected to remain high throughout the week."
State Coordinating Officer Bryan Koon said, "Standing water can be difficult to see and can obscure other hazards, such as the edges of canals and existing waterways -- especially at night. Floodwaters pose significant health risks and everyone should avoid contact with storm water. Remember: Turn Around, Don't Drown."
Potential weather impacts include:
An additional 3-5 inches of rain is possible over the next 24 hours and Flood Watches remain in effect for 59 Counties.
Severe thunderstorms with damaging winds and isolated tornadoes remain possible across the Florida Big Bend and entire Florida Peninsula tonight. The risk for severe weather will continue for the Peninsula on Tuesday.
Rip currents and minor coastal flooding and erosion is possible along the Gulf Coast from Franklin to Lee Counties as storm surge heights reach up to four feet with breaking waves of up to 10 feet, with the highest levels predicted in Apalachee Bay and along the Nature Coast. Increased waves are also expected along the Atlantic Coast on Tuesday with rip currents expected.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/06/06/gov-scott-reminds-floridians-to-use-caution-as-tropical-storm-colin-makes-landfall-tonight/
