Public Statements
Gov. Scott Reminds Floridians and Visitors to Remain Prepared for Tropical Depression; State Emergency Operations Center Activates to Level Two
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 5, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott today is reminding Florida residents, visitors and businesses to remain vigilant and be prepared for possible severe weather, heavy rain, and flooding from a tropical depression developing in the Gulf of Mexico. At 11:00 A.M. EDT today, the State Emergency Operations Center (SEOC) in Tallahassee elevated its activation status to Level 2 as the state prepares for possible impacts from the tropical depression.
Governor Scott said, "As we continue to closely monitor this tropical depression, Floridians should remain vigilant and have an emergency plan for their families and businesses in place today. The level two activation at the State Emergency Operations Center will help state and local emergency management officials work together to ensure our state is ready to respond to any impacts of this weather event."
FDEM Director, Bryan W. Koon said, "As the tropical depression in the Gulf of Mexico approaches the state, county emergency management officials are enacting their protective actions in accordance with their local plans. We are activating to Level 2 and engaging the State Emergency Response Team to assist our local partners in fulfilling any protective action measures or life-safety needs they may have."
Located in Tallahassee, the SEOC is the operational and logistical coordination headquarters for the State Emergency Response Team (SERT). The SEOC has three activation levels, with Level 1 being the highest:
Level 3: Normal daily active monitoring
Level 2: Activation of mission-specific emergency support and planning functions
Level 1: Full activation of all emergency support functions

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/06/05/gov-scott-reminds-floridians-and-visitors-to-remain-prepared-for-tropical-depression-state-emergency-operations-center-activates-to-level-two/
