Public Statements
Gov. Scott Urges Floridians and Visitors to Prepare for Potential Tropical System Approaching Gulf Coast
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 4, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott today urged Florida residents, visitors and businesses to prepare for potential severe weather, heavy rain, and flooding as the National Weather Service monitors a developing tropical system which could impact the Gulf Coast of Florida as early as Monday morning. The Florida Division of Emergency Management (FDEM) and Governor Scott are closely monitoring the tropical system and will keep Floridians informed of any updates.
Governor Scott said, "We are closely monitoring this tropical system and its potential impacts on Florida's Gulf Coast. Our most important goal is to protect our families, visitors and communities, and we will take every action to make sure our state is prepared for this weather event. While Florida's emergency officials, first responders and National Guard stand ready to respond to any need, it is crucial that Floridians use every resource to make sure their homes and families are immediately and thoroughly prepared."
FDEM Director Bryan W. Koon said, "Even if this system does not develop into a named storm, it still poses significant risks from flooding, damaging winds and tornadoes, and rip currents. This is expected to be a fast-moving storm, which means that it could mature very rapidly and very close, giving us little warning."
Potential impacts include:
Rainfall amounts through Wednesday could reach up to five inches across much of Central and South Florida with isolated totals of eight to ten inches along the I-4 corridor.
Severe thunderstorms are possible across North Florida on Sunday. Additional severe weather is possible through Tuesday across portions of Central and South Florida.
Increased wave heights along the Gulf Coast Monday and Tuesday and along the Atlantic Coast on Wednesday will elevate the risk of rip currents and minor coastal erosion.
The Atlantic Hurricane Season runs from June 1 -- November 30.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/06/04/gov-scott-urges-floridians-and-visitors-to-prepare-for-potential-tropical-system-approaching-gulf-coast/
