Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Signs College Affordability Bill
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 14, 2016
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott signed HB 7019 which creates greater transparency and accountability in Florida's higher education system. HB 7019 provides greater clarity for students regarding college costs; continues to hold the line on graduate school tuition; informs students of required and recommended textbooks before the start of classes; requires our colleges and universities to adopt policies that make textbooks more affordable; and requires the Board of Governors and the State Board of Education to annually study and make recommendations on how to make college more affordable.
Governor Scott said, "Our goal is to make Florida the best place to get a great education, and this bill gives students the ability to make informed decisions when choosing classes. It also makes higher education transparency and accountability a priority. We have to keep higher education affordable for our students and I applaud Senator John Legg and Representative Elizabeth Porter for sponsoring this bill. We want every student to have the resources they need to get an affordable education in Florida, and I'm happy to sign the bill today."
Senator John Legg said, "College affordability is one of our top priorities, where students can graduate with a quality education without being burdened with heavy debt. It's important that colleges and universities provide the resources students need to completely understand the costs of classes and materials. I appreciate working with Governor Scott in making Florida the best place to earn a great education."
Representative Elizabeth Porter said, "Students should have the resources they need to get a great education in Florida. I thank Governor Scott for making college affordability a priority and look forward to working with him to make Florida the best state in the nation to get a great education."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/04/14/governor-rick-scott-signs-college-affordability-bill/
