Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Signs Bill to Protect Families of Fallen Law Enforcement and First Responders
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 8, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott signed SB 7012 which protects the families of fallen law enforcement officers and first responders by providing the deceased individual's monthly salary to the beneficiary for their lifetime. The expanded benefit applies to all Special Risk class members of the Florida Retirement System. Special Risk includes law enforcement officers, firefighters, correctional officers, emergency medical technicians, paramedics, probation officers, and other employees whose job may put them at risk. The Governor will hold a bill signing ceremony for this legislation in the coming weeks.
Governor Scott said, "Florida's law enforcement officers and first responders put their lives on the line every day to keep others safe. We could never thank them enough for their sacrifice, but this legislation will ensure that these brave Floridians have the peace of mind knowing that their family will have financial support if the unthinkable were to ever happen. I appreciate Senator Ring and Representative Caldwell for honoring these heroes through their work to pass this bill.
"With recent world events, it's more important now than ever to honor our brave men and women who put the safety of others above their own. I join all Floridians today to say thank you to our law enforcement officers and first responders as we honor those who have given their lives to make our country the best place in the world to live and raise a family."
Senator Jeremy Ring said, "Thank you to Governor Scott for signing this important legislation today. It's important that our state continues to protect and honor the brave men and women who keep us safe. Florida's crime rate is at a 44 ½ year low all thanks to our hard working law enforcement officers, and we are proud today to thank them for their service."
Representative Matt Caldwell said, "The families of Florida's law enforcement officers deserve our support. I am glad today to join Governor Scott in thanking our first responders and honoring them with this legislation. We will continue to find ways to ensure that we take care of the people who keep our residents and visitors safe."
Florida Sheriffs Association President and Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell said, "On behalf of the Florida Sheriffs Association, I would like to thank Governor Scott and the Florida Legislature for making SB 7012 a reality. The Governor has been a dedicated supporter of law enforcement and he understands there is no greater sacrifice for our citizens than when an officer gives his or her life in the line of duty. This legislation goes a long way in helping the families of those fallen officers."
Florida Police Chiefs Association President and Winter Park Police Chief Brett Railey said, "Continuing to have the benefit of a salary will help those dealing with tragedy better support their families. Law enforcement officers and first responders leave their homes for work every day knowing that they are putting themselves at risk in order to keep others safe. Today's legislation sends a clear message that Florida respects and honors their duty."
Florida Fire Chiefs Association President Chief Gary Ballard said, "Florida's firefighters are always prepared to risk their own lives to keep families and communities safe. It is important to know the loved ones of these brave individuals will have the support they deserve should they ever need it. I appreciate Governor Scott and the Legislature for making this important legislation a high priority for our state."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/04/08/governor-rick-scott-signs-bill-to-protect-families-of-fallen-law-enforcement-and-first-responders/
