Public Statements
Gov. Scott Ceremonially Signs Legislation for Florida Veterans
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 7, 2016
Location: Penascola, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott ceremonially signed SB 222 which provides free parking at public airports for disabled veterans and HB 7023 which qualifies additional deployed service members for an ad valorem tax exemption. Governor Scott also awarded 122 veterans in Pensacola with the Governor's Veterans Service Award for their service to Florida and the nation.
Governor Scott said, "Today, I am proud to join many of Florida's veterans to ceremonially sign several pieces of legislation to support our nation's heroes. We can never thank our brave veterans and military members enough for their service, and I hope these important measures we signed into law will show how incredibly grateful we are for the countless sacrifices they have made to defend freedom here and around the world. I want to thank Senator Don Gaetz, Representative Trumbull, Representative Matt Gaetz, and other members of the Florida Legislature for their work on this legislation."
Major General Michael Calhoun said, "I want to thank Governor Scott for signing military-friendly legislation to help us better support our veterans and military members in Florida. We want Florida to be the best place in the country for our American heroes to live and raise a family."
Senator Don Gaetz said, "We are incredibly thankful to Florida's veterans and service men and women for their sacrifices and commitment to upholding American values across the world. I applaud Governor Scott for honoring veterans across our state every month and for signing several pieces of legislation aimed at showing appreciation to our American heroes."
Representative Jay Trumbull said, "I am thankful to Florida's veterans and service men and women for their sacrifices to uphold American values of freedom and opportunity. Both pieces of legislation represent a small token of our gratitude for their service, but we will do whatever we can to support our heroes."
Representative Matt Gaetz said, "The signing of these bills is just another step in honoring Florida's men and women who have made sacrifices and served this country. I applaud Governor Scott for signing legislation that shows Florida's appreciation for our service men and women."
The Governor recognized the following Florida Veterans in his speech today:

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/04/07/gov-scott-ceremonially-signs-legislation-for-florida-veterans/
