Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott Ceremonially Signs Legislation to Support Israel
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 6, 2016
Location: Boca Raton, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott hosted a ceremonially bill signing for SB 86, which prohibits the State Board of Administration from investing in companies that boycott Israel. Governor Scott was joined by bill sponsor Senate President-Designate Joe Negron, Representative Ritch Workman and Representative Jared Moskowitz, Consul General of Israel Lior Haiat, the Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County, and the Israel Allies Foundation.
Governor Scott said, "For many generations, Florida and Israel have been close partners and allies. When I was first elected, I led a trade mission to Israel because it is imperative that we further our economic growth between Florida and Israel. I applaud Senator Joe Negron, Representative Ritch Workman, Representative Jared Moskowitz, and the many legislative leaders who honored our relationship with the Jewish people by sponsoring SB 86. This bill ensures the State of Florida will not support those that participate in campaigns fueled by intolerance and anti-Semitism, like the Boycott, Divestment and Sanction movement. I am proud to ceremonially sign this bill today with the many organizations and individuals who supported it, and look forward to our continued relationship with Israel."
Consul General Lior Haiat said, "The passing of this new law strengthens the friendship between Florida and Israel and sends a clear message against the bigotry and discrimination of the BDS Movement. I applaud Governor Scott and the Florida State Legislature for taking the lead on the anti-BDS front and for their hard work on getting this bill passed."
Senate President-Designate Joe Negron said, "Those who seek to inflict economic harm on Israel or weaken Florida's ability to conduct trade with Israel will not receive any support from the State of Florida. I am proud to join Governor Scott in signing this bill and standing up against all forms of intolerance and discrimination."
Senator Joseph Abruzzo said, "Governor Scott and the Florida Legislature have demonstrated an incredible commitment to the Jewish people by signing this bill and I am proud to be a co-sponsor of this great piece of legislation. We will continue to do all we can to stand in support of our closest partner and ally, Israel."
Representative Ritch Workman said, "I applaud Governor Scott for his leadership in signing this significant bill and extend my gratitude to all of the groups who worked together to pass this legislation. The efforts to discriminate against Israel and its people have only brought Florida closer with one of our greatest friends and partners."
Representative Jared Moskowitz said, "Florida's friendship and partnership with Israel is unbreakable, and we will not support acts of hatred in our state. I am honored to join Governor Scott today in celebrating the passage of this excellent bill."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/04/06/gov-rick-scott-ceremonially-signs-legislation-to-support-israel/
