Public Statements
Governor Scott and Anheuser-Busch Break Ground on Aluminum Bottle Line in Jacksonville
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 31, 2016
Location: Jacksonville, FL

Today Governor Scott attended the groundbreaking for Anheuser-Busch's new $175 million aluminum bottle line at its Metal Container Corporation (MCC) facility in Jacksonville. This groundbreaking is part of Anheuser-Busch's ongoing expansion project Governor Scott announced last fall, which will create 75 new jobs and invest $175 million in the local community. Anheuser-Busch currently employs 840 Floridians across the state.
Governor Scott said, "Manufacturers like Anheuser-Busch are incredibly important to our state, and I am excited to join them in celebrating their ongoing expansion project and the creation of 75 new jobs. We have cut taxes more than 55 times since 2010, including permanently eliminating the sales tax on manufacturing machinery and equipment, which has saved Florida families and job creators $5.5 billion. By cutting taxes, we are sending a message across the country that Florida is the best place to succeed, and we will continue to do all we can to make Florida first for jobs."
Anheuser-Busch first began producing the popular Budweiser and Bud Light aluminum bottles in 2013. Jacksonville will be the second MCC facility to produce them. Anheuser-Busch has also operated a brewery in Jacksonville since 1969. Metal Container Corporation, a subsidiary of Anheuser-Busch, operates seven facilities in the U.S. The operation also produces cans and lids for major U.S. soft drink companies, including PepsiCo. and Monster Beverage Corporation.
Dave Taylor, president, Metal Container Corporation, said, "Since it launched in early 2014, the aluminum bottle has become overwhelmingly popular with beer drinkers, and we are proud to break ground on a new line in Jacksonville that will further expand production of the popular bottles, while adding jobs. The innovative, high-demand aluminum bottles will be enjoyed by fans as the 2016 baseball season and the busy spring and summer beer-selling seasons begin."

Source:
