Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Florida Leads Large States in Private-Sector Job Growth
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 1, 2017
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Florida tied Georgia for the fastest private-sector job growth rate of the 10 largest states in the nation. In the last year, Florida added 233,800 new private-sector jobs, the second-most in the entire nation. Florida's private-sector job growth rate, which is 3.2 percent, has outpaced the nation's rate, which is 1.7 percent, for five consecutive years. Florida's manufacturing industry also led the nation in job gains in March.
Governor Scott said, "Month after month, Florida's economy continues to outpace growth in other top competitor states, like California and Texas. Florida's manufacturing industry is also leading the nation in job creation, which is a testament to our focus on diversifying our economy. Important economic development programs like VISIT FLORIDA and Enterprise Florida are crucial to ensuring this growth continues, and any efforts by the Legislature to reduce funding for these programs will have a significant negative impact on businesses and families across our state. I urge the Legislature to not be shortsighted at the expense of Floridians and instead finalize a budget that fully funds Enterprise Florida and provides $100 million for VISIT FLORIDA."
In the last year, Florida added 13,100 new jobs in the manufacturing industry, the most of any state in the country. Florida has led the nation in over-the-year manufacturing job gains for the last nine months. The state had the second-highest job gains among all states in the trade, transportation and utilities, professional and business services, financial activities and construction industries.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director, Cissy Proctor said, "Investments in Florida's economy pay off every day for Florida families, who now have better job opportunities and higher incomes than they did six years ago. Thanks to the work of Enterprise Florida and VISIT FLORIDA, Florida's economic growth continues to outpace our competitor states. It is imperative that we continue investing in Enterprise Florida and VISIT FLORIDA to ensure Florida stays at the top of the nation for job growth."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2017/05/01/gov-scott-florida-leads-large-states-in-private-sector-job-growth-2/
