Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces FIS Expansion Will Create 250 New Jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 7, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Scott announced that FIS, a global leader in financial services technology, is expanding its presence in Jacksonville and will be creating 250 new jobs. The expansion will also generate a capital investment of over $2 million in the local community. FIS currently has nearly 1,100 employees in Duval County and employs more than 4,500 Floridians statewide.
Governor Scott said, "I am excited to announce today that FIS will be creating 250 new jobs for Jacksonville families. Financial service companies like FIS continue to help diversify Florida's economy which will help us become first in the world for job growth. We will keep working to cut taxes so businesses can continue to add valuable jobs for our families."
Headquartered in Jacksonville, FIS offers a broad range of enterprise banking and capital markets capabilities to empower financial institutions and businesses worldwide. The company is focused on providing mission-critical software and IT services to institutions in virtually every segment of the financial services industry. With $9.2 billion in annual revenue, FIS is a Fortune 500 company and a member of Standard & Poor's 500® Index. The company's recent acquisition of SunGard uniquely positions it to offer a broad range of enterprise banking and capital markets capabilities that will further empower the financial industry worldwide.
Gary Norcross, President & CEO of FIS, said, "The combination of Jacksonville's business -- and family -- friendly climate have been key success factors in attracting top talent to the company. It's this talent that enables us to empower the financial world and make a difference in the lives of consumers touched by it. We're very committed to Jacksonville, home of our global headquarters, and are excited to further deepen our roots in the community through the addition of these new jobs."
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida President and CEO said, "It's no surprise that companies like FIS are expanding in Florida. Florida's financial services industry is one of the best in the country and 250 new jobs is great news for the Jacksonville area. We congratulate FIS on their continued success and thank them for their continued commitment to Florida."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Cissy Proctor said, "Florida's pro-business environment makes the state an attractive place for businesses to expand. I am excited that another Florida-based business, FIS, has chosen to grow in our state by adding 250 new jobs, which is great news for Jacksonville-area families."
"FIS is another example of a great company that recognizes Jacksonville's commitment to fostering a business environment that contributes to increased capital investment and economic development opportunities," said Mayor Lenny Curry. "This expansion continues the incredible momentum our city has experienced in recent months, and is a reflection of our continued efforts to create a culture that attracts global businesses to our city."
"FIS executives know when they are looking to invest and grow, they don't have to look anywhere else," JAX Chamber Chair Audrey Moran said. "They can find the highly-skilled, information technology workers they need and a business-friendly environment right here in Jacksonville."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/03/07/governor-scott-announces-fis-expansion-will-create-250-new-jobs/
