Public Statements
Gov. Scott Issues Update on Wildfires in Florida
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 23, 2017
Location: Naples, FL

This morning, Governor Rick Scott received a briefing at the Collier County Emergency Operations Center from local fire officials, law enforcement, the Florida Forestry Service and local emergency management officials on the wildfires in Collier, Lee and Polk Counties.
Governor Scott said, "Firefighters and first responders from all across the state have been fighting the wildfires in Southwest Florida day and night, and we are all incredibly grateful for their hard work. I ask that if you know or see any firefighters and first responders in your communities that you take the time to thank them for bravely protecting our state. The rain we were blessed with yesterday has provided a big relief and helped ensure evacuation orders were lifted. While we are hopeful that the weather will continue to provide relief, we know these fires can change at a moment's notice due to wind and rain, and it is important that we remain alert and prepared. While there are currently no unmet needs, we will continue to monitor the ongoing fires across Florida and keep working with our federal, state and local partners to ensure we keep Florida safe."
UPDATE ON ONGOING WILDFIRES ACROSS THE STATE:
COLLIER COUNTY:
There is a 5,500-acre wildfire at 30th Avenue that is 50% contained.
All evacuation orders have been rescinded but continue to watch for any updates from local officials.
POLK COUNTY:
There is a 700-acre wildfire in Red Grange that is 75% contained.
All evacuation orders have been rescinded but continue to watch for any updates from local officials.
LEE COUNTY:
Fire units have cleared the scene in Lee County and all evacuation orders have been rescinded.
INSURANCE INFORMATION:
It is important for individuals with damaged homes or property to begin with documenting all damaged property and belongings. A free smartphone app developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners called "MyHome Scr.APP.book" is available to assist with photo documentation.
For help finding your Florida's property insurance company's website and contact information, click HERE. For a list of licensed insurance agents in Florida, click HERE. Additional consumer resources are available HERE.
To contact the Office of Insurance Regulation with reports of fraud or suspicious activity, call the Department of Financial Services, Division of Consumer Services Insurance Consumer Helpline at 1-877-693-5236.
IMPORTANT WILDFIRE PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS:
Visit FreshFromFlorida.com and learn more about how to protect your home from wildfire and ensure you live in a Firewise Community.
Make sure to clean-up yard debris around your home and check with local officials before burning.
For more information about the wildfire safety and response, visit Floridadisaster.org or follow the Division on Twitter at @FLSERT and Facebook at www.Facebook.com/FloridaSERT.

Source:
