Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott Requests 250 Additional Zika Antibody Tests from the CDC
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 24, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, after learning of three pregnant women in Florida who tested positive for Zika virus after traveling to Florida from outside the U.S., Governor Rick Scott requested the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) send 250 additional Zika antibody tests to the state. All of Florida's 32 cases of the Zika virus are travel related. The antibody tests allow individuals, especially pregnant women and new mothers, to see if they ever had the Zika virus. The state has currently used 255 of these tests since February 9th, and the Florida Department of Health (DOH) has a total of 1,195 antibody tests available currently.
Governor Scott said, "Following the news that three pregnant women tested positive for the Zika virus after traveling to Latin America, we have requested additional antibody tests to ensure we keep a good supply of resources to keep our families safe. I appreciate that the CDC has previously supplied Florida with these antibody tests and I ask that the CDC take immediate action to fulfill this request so we can continue to stay ahead of the possible spread of the Zika virus in Florida. I also want to thank Surgeon General Dr. John Armstrong for his laser-focus on this critical issue and his work to brief the U.S. Congress today on Florida's preparedness efforts."
There have been 32 confirmed cases of Zika in Florida, and only three cases are still exhibiting symptoms. According to the CDC, symptoms associated with the Zika virus last between seven to ten days. The Zika Virus Information Hotline is available for current Florida residents and visitors. The hotline, managed by the Department of Health, has assisted 683 callers since it's launched. The number for the Zika Virus Information Hotline is 1-855-622-6735.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/02/24/gov-rick-scott-requests-250-additional-zika-antibody-tests-from-the-cdc/
