Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott: Labinal Power Systems Expansion to Create 84 New Jobs in Manatee County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 19, 2016
Location: Manatee, FL

Today, Governor Scott announced that Safran, through its subsidiary Labinal Power Systems, is expanding its presence in Manatee County and will be creating 84 new jobs. The expansion will also include the relocation of the company's subsidiary, Aerosource, from Somerset, New Jersey to Manatee County, and generate $9.2 million in capital investment for the local community. Labinal Power Systems, a global leader in aeronautical power and electric systems, currently has 186 employees in their Manatee County facility and employs 500 Floridians statewide.
Governor Scott said, "I am excited to announce the creation of 84 new jobs thanks to Labinal Power System's expansion, and look forward to welcoming Aerosource to Florida from New Jersey. We want Florida to be the number one place for job creators to succeed so more opportunities can be available for our families. By creating the new $250 million dedicated Florida Enterprise Fund and cutting $1 billion in taxes this year, we will be able to make Florida first for jobs."
Labinal Power Systems entered Manatee County in 2014 when it purchased the Eaton Corp. facility on Whitfield Avenue and is known as a first-class partner for multiple aircraft manufacturers and a world leader in wiring solutions and electrical power generation.
"Safran has grown its presence in Florida over the years via its five businesses and joint ventures, and currently employs approximately 500 people at locations across the state," said Peter Lengyel, President and CEO of Safran USA. "Relocating the Aerosource operations from New Jersey to Florida will enhance the company's marketing capabilities for new business while significantly reducing costs. Our Florida-based companies are dedicated to manufacturing and MRO activities for aircraft equipment and systems."
"We would like to thank the State of Florida, Manatee County Government and the Bradenton Area EDC for helping Safran achieve its objective. This expansion is fully dedicated to supporting our military and commercial customers with our proven power distribution solutions, created in first-class manufacturing facilities," said Denis Schaeffer, Labinal Power Systems Operations Director.
Representative Jim Boyd said, "I am proud that Labinal Power Systems has chosen Manatee County as the best place to grow their business. These 84 new jobs are great news for our community, and I look forward to continuing to work with Governor Scott and Enterprise Florida to create more job opportunities across the state."
The expansion was made possible through partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, Bradenton Area Economic Development Corporation, and Manatee County.
Bill Johnson, president and CEO of Enterprise Florida, said, "Labinal Power System's expansion in the Bradenton Area means 84 more Floridians will have a job, which is great news. Florida's aerospace & aviation industry is world-class, and companies like Labinal Power System expanding here are a testament to that. I look forward to their continued success as we continue to make Florida the best state for business."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/02/19/gov-rick-scott-labinal-power-systems-expansion-to-create-84-new-jobs-in-manatee-county/
