Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Arthrex Expansion Will Create Over 350 New Jobs in Ave Maria
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 18, 2016
Location: Naples, FL

Today, Governor Scott announced that Arthrex, a global medical device company in orthopaedics, is expanding in Ave Maria and will be creating over 350 jobs. The expansion will create 218,000 square feet of manufacturing facility space. Arthrex currently employs over 2,000 Florida residents.
Governor Scott said, "I am excited to announce today that Arthrex will create over 350 new jobs at their new Ave Maria location. Arthrex is a growing Florida company and hired 260 new employees in just the past year alone. We must make sure Florida has a diverse economy by cutting $1 billion in taxes and creating the $250 Enterprise Florida Fund so companies like Arthrex can expand in Florida."
Arthrex is a global medical device company and leader in new product development and medical education in orthopaedics. With a corporate mission of helping surgeons treat their patients better, Arthrex has pioneered the field of arthroscopy and developed more than 9,500 innovative products and surgical procedures to advance minimally invasive orthopaedics worldwide. Arthrex has additional locations including Munich, Germany as well as several subsidiaries and distribution centers throughout the world.
Reinhold Schmieding, Arthrex Founder and President, said, "Arthrex is pleased to further increase its economic diversification investments in Southwest Florida of over $47 million in 2016 with the continued expansion of Arthrex Medical Education and two new Arthrex Manufacturing East facilities in Ave Maria. Assisted by Governor Rick Scott's dedicated leadership, Arthrex will continue to provide new high-wage, high-tech, non-seasonal career opportunities in Florida as the #3 ranked manufacturing and production company to work for in the United States."
Bill Johnson, President and CEO of Enterprise Florida, said, "When we invest in businesses' success, Florida wins, and that's clear with Arthrex's continued expansion in Southwest Florida. Their creation of an additional 320 new jobs in the medical device industry will allow more Floridians to realize their dreams and further diversify our economy here in Florida. I applaud Arthrex, and look forward to even more success from them in the future."

Source:
