Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces TQL Will Create 75 New Jobs in Miami
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 26, 2016
Location: Miami, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Total Quality Logistics (TQL), one of the largest freight-brokerage firms in the country, will be expanding in Miami and creating 75 new jobs over the next three years. The expansion will also create a capital investment of approximately $600,000 in Miami-Dade County. This is the company's sixth location in the Sunshine state, joining existing operations in Jacksonville, Daytona Beach, Orlando, Tampa Bay and Fort Lauderdale.
Governor Scott said, "TQL has created hundreds of jobs across the state and we are excited to announce their expansion in Miami today. Growing businesses like TQL mean more opportunities for Floridians to succeed and provide for their families. By cutting $1 billion in taxes and creating the new $250 million Florida Enterprise Fund this year, we will keep Florida on track to becoming first for jobs."
The Miami expansion is in addition to the recent announcement that TQL will add 100 new jobs as a part of the Daytona Beach expansion and 200 new jobs as a part of their new carrier services division in Tampa. The company opened its first Florida location in 2010 and currently employs nearly 450 Floridians across the state. They have been recognized numerous times as a top employer both statewide and by publications in each city where it operates.
"We're excited to continue to expand in Florida," said TQL President Kerry Byrne. "Opening in a world-class city like Miami helps attract the kind of highly motivated employees who will allow us to grow our market share and maintain our leadership role in the third-party logistics business."
The TQL expansion was made possible through partnerships between Enterprise Florida, Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, Miami-Dade County, and the Beacon Council.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida President and CEO said, "Florida is the #1 state for transportation infrastructure in the country, making the Sunshine State the ideal location for logistics and distribution companies. We thank TQL for their continued commitment to Florida and congratulate them for the expansion of their logistics operation in Miami and their creation of 75 new jobs for Florida families."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Cissy Proctor said, "TQL is taking advantage of all that Florida has to offer to grow its thriving business. TQL's expanding infrastructure across the Sunshine State is a testament to Florida's business-friendly climate and skilled workforce."
"I congratulate and welcome TQL to Miami-Dade County," Mayor Carlos A. Gimenez said. "This expansion is further evidence of how investments in PortMiami such as the Deep Dredge Project and the construction of the Tunnel create jobs for our 2.6 million residents and support our local businesses."
"One in five jobs in Miami-Dade County is in Trade & Logistics," The Beacon Council President & CEO Larry K. Williams said. "With the Panama Canal expansion this year, we expect those numbers to grow as more companies take advantage of the opportunities in Miami."
The Miami office will open with a founding team of five current employees and plans to bring on at least four people in its first hiring class prior to opening. TQL plans to bring 75 new jobs to the city over the next three years. The office located in Museum Tower at 150 West Flagler Street, Suite 1450, Miami, Fla. 33130 is scheduled to open for business March 21, 2016.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/01/26/governor-scott-announces-tql-will-create-75-new-jobs-in-miami/
