Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces 60 New Jobs at RADISE International
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 25, 2016
Location: Riviera Beach, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that RADISE International, a Florida based small business that provides engineering and IT services, will expand its operations in Palm Beach County and create 60 new jobs. The expansion will also include a capital investment of $2 million into the community.
Governor Scott said, "Small businesses like RADISE International have an incredible impact in their communities, and I am excited to announce the creation of 60 new jobs for families in Riviera Beach today. We want Florida to be the small business capital of the world, which is why we are working to cut $1 billion in taxes and create the new $250 million Florida Enterprise Fund this year."
Kumar Allady, President of RADISE International, said, "Creating new, high-paying, high-tech jobs for Florida is essential to the future economic growth of the state. Our new Smart Structures technology will be a key contributor to this strategic initiative. We look forward to many more years of success here in Florida."
RADISE International was founded in 1997 by Kumar and Vishala Allady has now grown to a 50-person organization with headquarters in Riviera Beach. With the recent acquisition of Smart Structures, RADISE will expand its footprint within U.S. and globally. RADISE has been awarded and recognized by Grow Florida, the South Florida Business Journal and the Palm Beach County Conference & Expo. RADISE has also worked closely with Florida Atlantic University on several projects, such as funding a research project for the Department of Civil Engineering and sponsoring a Ph.D. student.
The expansion was made possible through partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, and the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County.
Bill Johnson, President and CEO of Enterprise Florida, said, "RADISE International's expansion in Riviera Beach is a great example of the American Dream--a company that started small but has grown over time through hard work in a business-friendly climate. The 60 new jobs they are creating will continue to diversify our economy and give more Floridians the opportunity to live out their own dreams. I look forward to their continued success."
DEO Executive Director Cissy Proctor said, "STEM jobs are critically important to diversifying Florida's economy and provide great high-skill opportunities for Florida workers. We are excited that RADISE International has chosen Palm Beach County for their new expansion plans."
Kelly Smallridge, President and CEO of the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County, said, "RADISE works with a wide range of clients from small local companies, government agencies and to large worldwide corporations. The company's growth is impressive and is indicative of the area's propensity to accommodate the county's growing high tech and engineering clusters."
Florida Atlantic University President Dr. John Kelly said, "Partnering with local businesses like RADISE International is one of the many ways FAU works to prepare students for success in their education and careers. FAU is also proud to be one of the participants of Governor Scott's "Ready, Set, Work' University Challenge. We work every day to help ensure FAU students are positioned to secure employment by the time they graduate. We are committed to this challenge, and to the success of our students."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/01/25/governor-scott-announces-60-new-jobs-at-radise-international/
