Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces JL Audio, Inc. Expansion to Create 30 New Jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 25, 2016
Location: Miramar, FL

Today, Governor Scott announced that JL Audio, Inc., a manufacturer of car, marine, powersports and home audio products, will create 30 new jobs, while retaining 294 jobs and investing $9.4 million in Broward County.
Governor Scott said, "JL Audio began as a small business when two friends decided to build loudspeakers during their summer break from college. Today, JL Audio has provided a job for 294 Floridians and I am excited to announce that this growing business is creating 30 new jobs. We will continue to work to permanently cut the sales tax on manufacturing machinery and equipment so companies like JL Audio can provide more job opportunities for Florida families."
Robert Oxenhorn, Director of Finance & Accounting of JL Audio, Inc. said, "The State of Florida has provided us with a home for the past 40 years, which has acted as launch pad for our company's domestic growth and has supported us in establishing JL Audio as a worldwide brand. With the help of Gov. Scott, Enterprise Florida, The Greater Fort Lauderdale Alliance and the City of Miramar, we are excited about further expanding our manufacturing operations, creating a host of new jobs, and continuing to be the most sought after manufacturer of audio products for marine, mobile, home, powersports, and "anything that moves'; right here in Miramar, Florida."
Bill Johnson, President and CEO of Enterprise Florida said, "JL Audio's creation of 30 new jobs in Broward is great news for South Florida. Manufacturers like JL Audio are integral to Florida's economy as we continue to diversify. I look forward to seeing their continued success and growth in Florida."
DEO Executive Director Cissy Proctor said, "The expansion of JL Audio is great news for Broward County families. We want to diversify Florida's economy and grow the manufacturing sector across the state. That's why Governor Scott's proposal to permanently eliminate the tax on manufacturing equipment is so important."
Mayor Wayne Messam of the City of Miramar said, "We are proud to have JL Audio in Miramar, and are thrilled the company is expanding, bringing new jobs to our City. While other cities are losing manufacturers, Miramar continues to be a place where they thrive. We like to say, "It's right here in Miramar,' and today, that "it' is one of the nation's most innovative and outstanding audio manufacturers."
Bob Swindell, President and CEO of the Greater Fort Lauderdale Alliance said, "We are excited to announce that JL Audio chose to expand in Broward County. The company's decision to grow here demonstrates the strength of our community as a location of choice for top manufacturing companies."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/01/25/governor-scott-announces-jl-audio-inc-expansion-to-create-30-new-jobs/
