Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Charleston Laboratories, Inc. Expansion Will Create 25 New Jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 20, 2016
Location: Jupiter, FL

Today, Governor Scott announced that Charleston Laboratories, Inc., a specialty pharmaceutical company, will expand its operations in Palm Beach County and create 25 new jobs this year. Charleston Laboratories will also make a capital investment of $4 million into the community.
Governor Scott said, "We are excited to announce the creation of 25 new jobs for families in Jupiter today. Florida job creators like Charleston Laboratories have created more than one million jobs across our state in only five years, and in order to continue this growth, we will remain focused on our two objectives for this Legislative session: cutting $1 billion in taxes and creating the new $250 million Florida Enterprise Fund."
Paul Bosse, President and Chief Executive Officer of Charleston Laboratories, Inc., said, "We are honored the Business Development Board of Palm Beach and the Town of Jupiter identified Charleston Laboratories as possessing key qualities for the QTI program. Florida is a great fit for the Charleston headquarters due to rich talent within the State and its ability to attract top talent from other areas with its dynamic economic environment. We look forward to being active leaders in the community, while driving innovation within the pharmaceutical industry globally."
The expansion was made possible through partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County, and the Town of Jupiter.
Bill Johnson, President and CEO of Enterprise Florida, said, "Charleston Laboratories expansion in Palm Beach is great news for South Florida. By creating an additional 25 new jobs, they are creating opportunities in an important industry and bolstering an already booming economy in Palm Beach County. I look forward to their continued success as Florida becomes the global destination for business."
DEO Executive Director Cissy Proctor said, "The expansion of Charleston Laboratories shows Florida's business community is continuing to diversify. The state's focus on creating and retaining STEM-related jobs is great news for families in Palm Beach County and across Florida."
"Charleston Laboratories is an example of the types of life sciences companies that continue to flourish in Palm Beach County," said Kelly Smallridge, President and CEO of the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County. "It's impressive that this company creates cutting edge, industry-changing products in our backyard and improves the quality of life for individuals across the globe."
"We are excited to welcome Charleston Labs to the Jupiter Community," said Mayor Karen Golonka. "Jupiter is happy to continue the trend of adding companies to its bioscience community with real commercialization and market opportunities that not only bring additional jobs and economic growth, but also have the potential to make a difference in people's lives."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/01/20/governor-scott-announces-charleston-laboratories-inc-expansion-will-create-25-new-jobs/
