Public Statements
2016 State of the State Speech
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 12, 2016
Location: Fort Myers, FL

Good morning Speaker Crisafulli, President Gardiner and members of the Florida Legislature. Welcome Lt. Governor Carlos Lopez-Cantera. I would also like to welcome: Attorney General Pam Bondi, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Atwater, Commissioner of Agriculture Adam Putnam, Chief Justice Labarga and members of the Florida Supreme Court.
I would like to recognize my amazing wife, Ann. She is the love of my life and my best friend. We are blessed with two wonderful daughters and four energetic grandsons. We will celebrate our 44th wedding anniversary this year.
Today marks my 262nd week in office as the Governor of the Great State of Florida, and I have had a lot of time to reflect over the past 5 years. Judging by earthly standards, Ann and I have had a good bit of success in our lives. But as I reflect on that, I realize that our time on earth is fleeting, and I am unable to do anything of lasting significance without the grace of God. I know our work that is eternal is the time we spend investing in other people -- our families, for sureBut, we also do work of lasting significance when we invest in the lives of our friends and our neighbors.
I ran for Governor to help my neighbors -- all 20 million of them across our great state. There are some who believe that the very best way to help people is for government to give them money. And the truth is, for those in dire need, we need to provide a safety net. With your help, we have invested Florida taxpayer dollars to make a lasting difference in the lives of Florida families.
For the first time ever, we completely funded the critical needs waiting list so persons with unique abilities can get the help they need. We made a record high investment in our education system so every child can have the opportunity to pursue their American dream. And just this year, we started a pilot program to better serve individuals who suffer with substance abuse and mental illness. These are two issues that have affected my family and many other families in our state. But, government assistance must be the very last resort, not the first. Government does not create prosperity, and it never has. Top down mandates from big government are artificial and not sustainable.







Source:
