Public Statements
Integrity Express Logistics' Expansion Will Create 50 New Jobs in Hillsborough County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 4, 2016
Location: Tampa, FL

Today, Governor Scott announced that Integrity Express Logistics, an asset-based third party freight brokerage company, will expand its Tampa operations with the creation of 50 new jobs. The project will also invest $115,000 in the local community.
Governor Rick Scott said, "I am proud to announce Integrity Express Logistics' creation of 50 new jobs in Tampa Bay. While Integrity Express Logistics could have kept expanding their business in Ohio, they recognized Florida as the best state to grow. More companies are picking Florida because we are committed to cutting taxes and I look forward to working with the legislature to cut $1 billion in taxes this year."
With offices in Tampa, Integrity Express Logistics will be expanding its current space at that location to accommodate its growing team. Founded in 2007, Integrity Express Logistics is a veteran-owned company with over 30 years of logistics experience.
Peter Ventura, Partner, Integrity Express Logistics, said "We are really excited to be expanding our operations in Tampa by adding jobs over the next few years. We have found that Florida, and particularly the Tampa area, have been very conducive to our business climate and we are looking forward to years of growth. The Tampa area has a lot of talented people to choose from and many amenities that are top notch, making this an attractive place to grow our business. Between the people, the State, and the City itself, we couldn't have asked for a better place to be."
Integrity Express Logistics serves the needs of companies ranging from those with very small shipments to companies that are producing hundreds of loads every week. Integrity Express Logistics has clients across the industry spectrum ranging from fresh produce and frozen foods to metals, lumber, and plastics shipping. Together with its contracted carriers, the company services over 5,000 customers nationwide.
Bill Johnson, President & CEO of Enterprise Florida, Inc., said, "Integrity Express Logistics' decision to expand in Tampa and create 50 new jobs is great news. More and more logistics companies like Integrity Express Logistics are taking advantage of Florida's low-tax, pro-business climate. I look forward to their continued success as we make Florida the best place for business."
Florida's broader wholesale trade, transportation and logistics industry is home to more than 70,000 companies, employing 630,000 residents. As the Western Hemisphere's commercial gateway, Florida's logistics & distribution industry is poised to grow further with the Panama Canal expansion. Florida has the third largest cluster of logistics & distribution establishments and the fifth highest number of logistics & distribution jobs in the United States.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "The Tampa Bay region is leading the state in job growth and the Scott Administration's commitment to growing Florida jobs is helping to create a competitive business climate that enables the private sector to flourish. Companies like Integrity Express Logistics have added more than 1 million new jobs since Governor Scott took office."
"Hillsborough County's distribution & logistics industry is on a roll," said the Hon. Lesley "Les" Miller, Jr., Chair of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners. "Our proximity to Port Tampa Bay, 500 miles of CSX railroad lines, and major interstate systems that offer access to over 33 million consumers within an eight hour drive make it a smart decision to locate here. We are proud to support Integrity Express Logistics' rapid progress as they create more quality jobs for people in our community."
Integrity Express Logistics joins an impressive roster of companies that have recently made the decision to locate or expand in Hillsborough County, including Amazon, BlueGrace Logistics, C & S Wholesale Grocers, Cody Talbert Distribution, and Dart Container.
"It's very exciting to see Integrity Express Logistics thriving in Hillsborough County," said Colleen Chappell, Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation Chair and CEO of ChappellRoberts. "We're working hard to develop our booming distribution & logistics sector by offering business assistance packages that keep companies like them from expanding in other states. The competition in the Southeast is fierce. We're thankful they chose to increase their investment here, and know it will pay great dividends for them."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/01/04/integrity-express-logistics-expansion-will-create-50-new-jobs-in-hillsborough-county/
