Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Issues "Ready, Set, Work" University Challenge
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: Dec. 2, 2015
Location: Tallahasse, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced the "Ready, Set, Work" University Challenge, which challenges state-funded universities to get 100 percent of their graduates (not going on to graduate school) full-time employment within a year for those receiving each university's two most popular degrees.
Governor Scott is encouraging universities to join the "Ready, Set, Work" Challenge by the first day of the legislative session (January 12th), by calling his office at (850) 717-9507.
Governor Scott says, "Parents dream of their children being gainfully employed in a career field of their interest. In order to achieve this dream, families save and plan for years to afford to attend a state university. Yet, far too many university students are graduating today, some after spending years of their family's savings and others after taking on decades of debt, not able to find a job. Our state-funded universities can and must do more to help graduates get a good paying job.
"Today, I am challenging all state universities to better align their degrees with a student's opportunity to get a job when they graduate. We must make a commitment to students that they will be able to get a job when they graduate, and that is why I am asking all our state universities to accept the challenge of ensuring 100 percent of graduates getting their two most popular degrees will be able to get a job within a year of graduation.
"We should be aiming for 100 percent job placement within a year of graduation -- especially with a university's most popular degrees. We fund state universities to help students get a job when they graduate. That is a family's dream when they send their child through higher education, and I know all of our schools will rise to this challenge to help every student get READY and WORK."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/12/02/governor-rick-scott-issues-ready-set-work-university-challenge/
