Public Statements
Paychecks for Patriots Events Begin Across the State for Florida Veterans
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 6, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced participating employers throughout the state that are connecting Florida veterans and their families with job opportunities through the Paychecks for Patriots program. At 20 locations throughout the state during November, Paychecks for Patriots will match veterans and their families with employers who value knowledge, skills, and attributes attained during military experience. The employers will include national companies as well as many local community employers. Since January, Florida's CareerSource regions have helped more than 16,000 veterans get a job.
Governor Rick Scott said, "The annual Paychecks for Patriots events are another example of the steps we are taking to make Florida the most military-friendly and veteran-friendly state in the nation. These events are a great way to give our American heroes and their families the opportunity to get a great job and achieve their dreams in the Sunshine State."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "We want Florida to be the first place veterans look for a post-military career, and that's why so many state and local agencies participate in events like Paychecks for Patriots. I urge all employers to hire the talented, dedicated veterans in Florida."
Mike Prendergast, executive director of the Florida Department of Veterans' Affairs, said, "Returning service members arrive with proven leadership and technical skills, a strong sense of teamwork and integrity, and the ability to work under pressure. These are the very qualities employers seek."
CareerSource Florida President and CEO Chris Hart IV said, "Florida is blessed to have the third-largest population of military veterans in the country, and our workforce benefits as a result. With their strong leadership, technical and team work skills, veterans make exceptional employees who contribute at high levels. We sincerely appreciate the businesses participating in this year's Paychecks for Patriots career fairs, and applaud the CareerSource Florida network partners dedicated year-round to connecting veterans with great careers."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/11/06/paychecks-for-patriots-events-begin-across-the-state-for-florida-veterans/
