Public Statements
Governor Scott Celebrates Completion of U.S. 98 Interchange Project at Hurlburt Field
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 2, 2015
Location: Okaloosa County, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott celebrated the completion of the U.S. 98/Cody Avenue interchange project in Okaloosa County. The state of Florida invested the full $18 million to complete the project, which increases safety and convenience for the thousands of military members, business owners, residents, and visitors who travel through this area each day.
Governor Scott said, "We are excited to celebrate the completion of this project, which supports our dedicated military members who work at Hurlburt Field. We will keep making important investments in Florida's world class transportation system to attract job creators and further diversify job creation."
The project elevates the U.S. 98 travel lanes above Cody Avenue to create a grade-separated interchange where traffic destined for Hurlburt Field accesses the main gate via on- and off-ramps. The Florida Department of Transportation partnered with the United States Department of Defense, U.S. Air Force, Okaloosa County and the Okaloosa-Walton Transportation Planning Organization on the project. FDOT Secretary Jim Boxold and U.S. Air Force 1st Special Operations Wing Commander Colonel Sean M. Farrell were also on hand to celebrate the opening of the new interchange.
FDOT Secretary Boxold said, "I applaud Governor Scott for his increased investments in transportation projects that continue the commitment we have to keep our state as the most military-friendly in the country. By working together with our partners, we were able to build an interchange that benefits both civilians and our military."
Senator Don Gaetz said, "It is exciting to finally see the U.S. 98/Cody Avenue interchange in action. This project helps Northwest Florida families, especially those who live and work on our military bases, travel safely and more efficiently, and I am thankful to Governor Scott for his commitment to supporting our region's transportation infrastructure needs."
Representative Matt Gaetz said, "This interchange project is another example of Governor Scott's dedication to making Florida the best state in which to live and do business. This project will ensure a safer and easier life for the surrounding community and I am proud to recognize its final completion today."
Representative Clay Ingram said, "Several partners came together for this project to achieve our goal of creating a faster, safer route on U.S. 98 and Cody Avenue. I look forward to continuing to work alongside Governor Scott as we build up our infrastructure and make our roadways even safer for families and visitors."
Hurlburt Field is a busy and growing military installation that is home to the elite U.S. Air Force Special Operations Command. It is a major regional employer with more than 10,000 active duty military and civilian personnel. Daily traffic counts on U.S. 98 near the Hurlburt Field main gate exceed 47,000 vehicles.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/11/02/governor-scott-celebrates-completion-of-u-s-98-interchange-project-at-hurlburt-field/
