Public Statements
Gov. Scott Proposes an Additional $22.9 Million in Funding for the Safety of Florida Children
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 27, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that he will propose an additional $22.9 million in his recommended budget for the Florida Department of Children and Families to improve the safety of children in the state's child welfare system.  This funding will allow community based care agencies to hire additional case managers and increase the availability of safety services for families whose children are at risk of being removed from the home.
Governor Rick Scott said, "It's absolutely heartbreaking when a child is a victim of abuse or neglect. Anytime something horrific happens to an innocent child, we have to stop and think about what we can do to make sure it doesn't happen again. The funding we are announcing today will help us better coordinate care across our state and give us the necessary tools to work toward stopping child abuse. As a father and a grandfather, I take the the safety of our children very seriously.  While we have made significant steps forward, the reality is even one victim of child abuse is one too many."
DCF Secretary Mike Carroll said, "I appreciate Governor Scott's commitment to making sure we do all we can to protect the most vulnerable children in our state.  This funding will increase staffing levels and help caseworkers who are in the communities everyday caring for children."
The proposed additional funding for Community Based Care Agencies will do the following:
Hire an additional 272 case managers to reduce caseloads. This will provide case managers the enhanced ability to focus on the safety and well-being of Florida children.
Increase availability of safety services for families whose children are at risk of being removed from their

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/10/27/gov-scott-proposes-an-additional-22-9-million-in-funding-for-the-safety-of-florida-children/
