Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott: Florida's Private-Sector Growth Rate Again Tops All Large States in September
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 23, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott announced today that Florida's private-sector job growth rate of 3.4 percent in September was the highest among the ten most populous states, including Texas and California. This is the seventh month in a row Florida's growth rate has been first among large states. Florida's job growth rate is also significantly higher than the nation's, which is at 2.2 percent.
Governor Scott said, "Florida continues to lead other large states, including our number one competitor Texas, in job growth because our pro-business, low-tax policies are out-competing other locations as a top place for jobs. Florida's economy is booming, but we cannot become complacent or slow down our efforts to make Florida first in the world for job creation. We look forward to working with the Legislature to create the new Florida Enterprise Fund to make Florida more competitive for jobs."
In September, Florida ranked second among the largest states in total private-sector jobs added, with more than 234,000 jobs created over the year. This is the sixth consecutive month that Florida has created more private-sector jobs over the year than Texas, even though Texas's population is significantly higher.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "For the seventh month in a row, Florida had the highest rate of job creation among large states.  We even beat Texas--again.  The Scott Administration's pro-growth policies are working and Florida is showing the nation how to create economic prosperity."
Since December 2010, Florida businesses have created 941,000 private-sector jobs. In September, the unemployment rate dropped to 5.2 percent, less than half the December 2010 rate and the lowest in seven years.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/10/23/gov-rick-scott-floridas-private-sector-growth-rate-again-tops-all-large-states-in-september/
