Public Statements
Gov. Scott Honors 101 Veterans with Governor's Veterans Service Award in Lakeland
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 23, 2015
Location: Lakeland, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott awarded 101 Florida Veterans with the Governor's Veterans Service Award for their service to Florida and the nation.
Governor Scott, "Following the 240th birthday of the Navy last week, I am honored to recognize fellow Navy veterans and many other American heroes today for their brave service. As a Navy veteran myself, I recognize that it is important to take every opportunity to thank our military members for their commitment to protecting our state and nation."
The Governor recognized the following Florida Veterans in his speech today:
Harry Alexander
Harry Alexander is a World War II Veteran and a Second Class Petty Officer who was a gunner on patrol boats in the Philippines from 1942 to 1947. He has received three Purple Hearts during his service in the U.S. Navy. He received his first medal in the Philippines in 1944 where he was shot by a sniper while his boat traveled through a narrow passage. Only a week later, an artillery shell exploded on the same boat and he received shrapnel wound to his lower back. His third Purple Heart came later that year where he was shot at by a Japanese plane and thrown into the Gulf. Harry was also presented with a Quilt of Valor from the Lakeland Military Order of the Purple Heart this past June.
Jack Merrill
Jack began his naval career in 1959 and attended the Submarine School in Connecticut. Only two years later while still stationed at a base in Key West, Jack served during the Cuban Missile Crisis. Jack left the Key West submarine base several years later, and returned to Maine after his service in Florida. This past year, he was also instrumental in establishing the Submarine Veterans Memorial in Bartow to honor submariners who have served in the military.
Danny Johnson
Danny Johnson holds the distinction of being the longest serving soldier within the 53rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team with more than 40 years of service in the Florida National Guard and 30 years of service in the Full Time Technician Program.  He has served multiple deployments in Operation Desert Storm and Operation Iraqi Freedom.
He continues to serve as a member of 2-116th Field Artillery as the Senior Intelligence NCO in the Battalion S2 Section and is the Surface Maintenance Mechanic Leaderman at FMS 4.  Danny Johnson is married with three children and one grandchild, and currently resides in Haines City, Florida.
Florida Veterans Medal
The "Governor's Veterans Service Award" honors Floridians who have served in the U.S. Military. The front of the medal depicts the Great Seal of the State of Florida. The back of the medal displays the five seals representing the five branches of U.S. Military with an inscription that reads "Honoring Those Who Served."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/10/23/gov-scott-honors-101-veterans-with-governors-veterans-service-award-in-lakeland/
