Public Statements
Gov. Scott Recognizes USAA's Commitment to Hiring Florida Veterans at Combat to Claims Graduation Ceremony
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 15, 2015
Location: Tampa, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott recognized USAA's commitment to hiring Florida veterans by presenting 34 veterans and USAA employees with the Governor's Veterans Service Award during the "Combat to Claims" graduation ceremony. USAA's "Combat to Claims" program allows recent veterans to train as a unit for two months in order to become USAA employees. Governor Scott also highlighted USAA's creation of 400 jobs for Tampa families since November 2013. USAA currently employs more than 2,800 people in Tampa.
Governor Scott said, "We are working every day to make Florida first for job creation, and maintain our place as the most military-friendly state in the nation. Florida is proud to be the home of many great companies like USAA that have made it a priority to create job opportunities for our brave veterans. As a veteran myself, I was honored to recognize these 34 veterans today, and I look forward to seeing the continued success of USAA in Florida."
Sixteen new "Combat to Claims" graduates and 18 alumni were honored with the Governor's Veterans Service Award for their military service. More than 25 percent of USAA's employees in the Tampa office are either veterans or military spouses. USAA aims to have veterans and military spouses account for 30 percent of all new hires. Since 2006, USAA has hired more than 10,000 veterans and military spouses across the country, including more than 1,000 through September 2015.
Yvette Segura, vice president and general manager of USAA Tampa said, "Veterans bring incredible technical skills, learning agility, work ethic, leadership and loyalty to the workforce, which is why we have prioritized hiring veterans through initiatives like the "Combat to Claims' program. Our goal is to not only hire from the military community, but also to provide them with opportunities for long-term, meaningful careers. We are grateful to Governor Scott for joining us in welcoming our newest team members today and for his ongoing commitment to building a business-friendly environment in Florida."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/10/15/gov-scott-recognizes-usaas-commitment-to-hiring-florida-veterans-at-combat-to-claims-graduation-ceremony/
