Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott: Florida's Housing Market Continues to Climb
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 9, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott announced today that Florida's housing market experienced another strong month of positive growth in August. Florida's housing market had more closed sales, higher median prices, and more pending sales in August 2015.  Closed sales of existing single-family homes statewide totaled 23,651 last month, up 8.8 percent over August 2014.
Governor Scott said, "Our work to cut taxes and create a business friendly environment is creating jobs and attracting more families to Florida because there are so many opportunities for success. Last year, more than 250,000 people moved to Florida, making our state the third biggest state in the nation -- bigger than New York. We want Florida to be the first in the nation for families to succeed, and our growing housing market means more families are having the dream of home ownership come true in the Sunshine State."
In August 2015, new pending sales for single-family homes rose 1.2 percent over the year. The median number of days on the market for single family homes in Florida dropped by more than 18 percent over the year.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "The continued strength of the housing market is great news for Floridians. Indicators such as increased closed sales and higher median sales prices show that Florida's economy as a whole is benefitting from the Scott Administration's pro-growth policies."
The statewide median sales price for single-family existing homes last month was $199,900, up 11.1 percent from the previous year; the statewide median price for townhouse-condo properties in August was $150,000, up 10.3 percent over the year-ago figure. August marked the 44th consecutive month that median sales prices increased year-over-year for single-family homes and the 50th consecutive month for townhouse-condo properties.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/10/09/gov-rick-scott-floridas-housing-market-continues-to-climb/
