Public Statements
Governor Scott: Florida Defense Industry Had $79.8 Billion Impact in 2014 Despite Federal Government's Decline in Funding
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 2, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Scott announced that Florida's defense industry had a $79.8 billion economic impact in Florida in 2014, according to a report commissioned by Enterprise Florida and CareerSource Florida. This is a $6.4 billion, or 8.7 percent, increase from 2011 and ranks the defense industry as the fourth largest industry in Florida. The "Economic Impact of Defense Activities in Florida' study revealed continued strong, positive economic growth in Florida's defense industry despite continuing declines in federal defense spending.
Governor Scott said, "Despite declining help from the federal government, Florida's defense industry employed nearly 775,000 Floridians and had a $79.8 billion impact on our state. This success includes Enterprise Florida's work to attract and retain companies like Boeing and Lockheed Martin, both of which have recently announced plans to create hundreds of new jobs for Florida families. Florida's defense industry helps diversify our economy and ensure jobs are available for the Floridians who need them, which is yet another reason we will work with the Legislature to fully fund Enterprise Florida in the upcoming Legislative Session."
Florida is home to 20 major military installations and three Unified Combatant Commands, as well as over 60,000 active military personnel. The $79.8 billion total impact of defense activities across Florida in 2014 accounted for 9.5 percent of Florida's total economic output, and employed nearly 775,000 jobs for Floridians. These numbers indicate that defense, behind agriculture, healthcare and tourism, ranks as the fourth largest industry existing in Florida's economy. The study examined the economic impacts associated with military service members, Department of Defense civilians and contractors, base operations and procurement, veterans and retirees.
Bill Johnson, President & CEO of Enterprise Florida said, "Florida's defense industry now ranks as the fourth largest industry in our state, with a $79.8 billion impact last year alone. This is great news, and I look forward to working with the Governor and legislature to diversify our economy and keep Florida the most military friendly state in the country."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Florida's goal is to be the most military-friendly state in the nation, and the result is that we are seeing strong growth in our state's defense industry.  Continued growth in this sector is critical as Florida continues to diversify its economy."
"With nearly 775,000 jobs in Florida tied to the industry, homeland security and defense continues to have a major and growing impact on the economy of the third largest state in the country," said CareerSource Florida President and CEO Chris Hart IV. "As the study illustrates, Florida's talented workforce and our strong military history, coupled with Florida's exceptional business climate, support further growth in this key industry sector."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/10/02/governor-scott-florida-defense-industry-had-79-8-billion-impact-in-2014-despite-federal-governments-decline-in-funding/
