Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces TQL Expansion Will Create 100 New Jobs in Daytona Beach
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 1, 2015
Location: Daytona Beach, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced the expansion of Total Quality Logistics (TQL), one of the largest freight-brokerage firms in the country. The expansion of their logistics operation will create 100 new jobs and a capital investment in Volusia County of approximately $565,000. TQL has operations in Tampa, Jacksonville, Orlando and Fort Lauderdale and currently employs nearly 450 Floridians across the state.
Governor Scott said, "TQL already employs approximately 450 Floridians and the creation of 100 additional jobs in Daytona Beach is exciting news. Since December 2010, Florida businesses have created more than 940,000 private-sector jobs. We wish TQL the best as they continue to grow and create new opportunities for Florida families."
The Daytona Beach expansion in in addition to the recent announcement that TQL will add a new carrier services division to its operations in Tampa, which is expected to create up to 200 new jobs. The company began operations in 2010 and has been recognized numerous times as a top employer in the state.
"The state of Florida is proving to be a good market for recruiting quality professionals interested in sales and support positions. Its strong and varied communities and educational offerings help to make it an extremely attractive place to work and play," said TQL President, Kerry Byrne.
Nearly every major global logistics operator has a presence in the state, including the headquarters of top logistics companies. As the Western Hemisphere's commercial gateway, Florida's logistics & distribution industry is poised to grow further with the Panama Canal expansion in 2016, and the numerous infrastructure developments and upgrades underway around the state.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president & CEO said, "Florida is the #1 state for transportation infrastructure in the country, making the Sunshine State the ideal location for logistics and distribution companies. We thank TQL for their continued commitment to Florida and congratulate them for the expansion of their logistics operation."
The TQL expansion was made possible through partnerships between Enterprise Florida, Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, CareerSource Florida, Volusia County and Team Volusia EDC.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "TQL's expansion is another win for Daytona's economy and will help Florida's growing reputation as a national hub for logistics and distribution. The Scott Administration will continue to support policies that foster growth in this industry."
As part of the project, CareerSource Florida has offered TQL performance-based grants for employee training through the Quick Response Training program. Quick Response Training grants are structured to be flexible and responsive to the training needs of new or expanding businesses.
Chris Hart IV, CareerSource Florida president and CEO, said, "Florida ranks fifth in the nation for the highest number of logistics and distribution jobs, many of which are well-paying positions with specialized skill sets. Expanding companies like TQL are helping to grow the state's economy and we are proud to join them in ensuring Floridians acquire the needed skills for success in this thriving industry."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/10/01/gov-rick-scott-to-lead-domestic-trade-mission-to-new-york-city/
