Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Awards Mexico Beach Sergeant with the Medal of Heroism
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 29, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

During today's meeting of the Florida Cabinet, Governor Rick Scott recognized Mexico Beach Sergeant Anthony Kelly with the Medal of Heroism for his bravery and quick reaction during a dangerous situation where he saved 17 individuals from a burning building while off-duty.
Governor Scott said, "Sergeant Kelly's quick action saved the lives of 17 people from a burning building while off-duty. Because of the attentiveness to his surroundings, he was able to go above and beyond to save people in danger. I am proud to recognize him with the Medal of Heroism, along with his fellow law enforcement officers, for courageously protecting Floridians quickly and without question."
Sergeant Anthony Kelly said, "I am honored to receive the Governor's Medal of Heroism today. This distinct honor further motivates me to make the safety of Floridians and visitors a top priority whether on or off duty. My fellow police officers and I work every day to ensure that those in our community are safe and that never ends when our shifts are over for the day. I accept this award on behalf of their brave service."
About Sergeant Anthony Kelly
Sergeant Anthony Kelly has served with the Mexico Beach Police Department since April 2014 and was previously a police officer in Mississippi for 18 years. Last April, Sergeant Kelly assisted two Bay County Sheriff's deputies to evacuate a building on fire while off-duty. While driving home after his 12-hour shift through a small town in north Florida, Sergeant Kelly spotted smoke pouring from an apartment building and rushed to the scene. Residents of the burning building were trapped on the top floor without an escape route to safety. He and fellow police officers immediately devised a plan to save those inside and brought 17 individuals to safety due to their quick action. Sergeant Kelly is a retired United States Air Force reserve officer where he served for four years. He was promoted to Sergeant of the Mexico Beach Police Department eight months after joining the department and has also helped develop a specialized task force to fight gang violence in the Panama City area. He was recently honored with the "Lee McGehee Police Officer of the Year Award" and was recognized with two other Medals of Valor for his courageous actions.

Source:
