Public Statements
Gov. Scott Highlights Job Growth at Summit Aerospace in Miami
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 3, 2015
Location: Miami, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted job growth at Summit Aerospace, Inc. in Miami for their success in South Florida and plans to add 15 new jobs this year. Summit Aerospace has been doing business in Miami for 15 years and provides in-house maintenance and supplies for large airlines and manufactures including Lockheed Martin, FedEx and Boeing. Currently, Florida is ranked #1 for aerospace manufacturing attractiveness and #1 for aircraft manufacturing workforce by PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Governor Rick Scott said, "Florida is home to over 2,000 aviation and aerospace companies because of our established aerospace infrastructure and great business environment. We are shipping manufacturing and aviation products across the world and our small businesses are continuing to expand into new markets. Florida will keep reducing regulations and cutting taxes so companies like Summit Aerospace can add even more jobs for our families."
Jesse Panuccio, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, said, "The expansion of Summit Aerospace in Miami will help Florida maintain its position as a leader in aerospace employment and innovation. This company, like many others, has chosen to stay in Florida because of the pro-growth policies that have made this state the best place to live, play, and work."
Jorge Fernandez, Co-owner and founder, Summit Aerospace, said, "Florida offers a cost competitive environment, favorable overall tax structure, no personal income tax and a superior quality of life, giving companies like Summit a competitive edge to companies in other states. We thank Governor Scott for what he has done to help Summit compete in the global economy, for the benefit of our hard working 130 talented people, and as we continue to grow."
Allan Jiron, Co-owner and founder, Summit Aerospace, said "Governor Scott has created a pro-business climate in which we can effectively compete, grow, hire and promote talented people. We are excited for the addition of 15 new employees and hope to create more jobs for Florida families. Not only is Florida a pro-business state, but it is also a very easy place to recruit talent, due to the low cost of living, beautiful weather and environment. We look forward to continued success in Florida under Governor Scott's leadership."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/09/03/gov-scott-highlights-job-growth-at-summit-aerospace-in-miami/
