Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announces Kick-Off of Diverging Diamond Interchange at Interstate 75
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 2, 2015
Location: Manatee County, FL

Governor Rick Scott today announced the kick-off of the innovative "diverging diamond interchange" project at I-75 in Sarasota and Manatee counties -- the first of its kind in the state. This project will improve traffic flow and enhance safety at this intersection. This $74.5 million reconstruction is set to be completed in time for the World Rowing Championships in September 2017. Construction of the project is expected to bring an estimated 120 direct construction jobs and an additional 400 indirect jobs to southwest Florida.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We are excited to announce the kick-off of Florida's first ever diverging diamond for drivers in Sarasota and Manatee counties. Its construction on I-75 will help to ease traffic flow and keep Florida families and visitors safe, while also creating over 400 jobs for the community."
The project expands I-75 to an eight-lane freeway with three through lanes and an auxiliary lane in each direction from University Parkway Interchange South to Fruitville Road interchange. The auxiliary lanes will provide a dedicated travel lane between the two interchanges.
"Thanks to the leadership of Governor Scott, the people of Sarasota and Manatee counties will be safer and their commutes will be faster when this project is complete," Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) Secretary Jim Boxold said. "This Governor understands that investments in transportation infrastructure can save lives, stimulate the economy and improve the quality of life for Florida families."
The project also includes rebuilding I-75 bridges over University Parkway and widening I-75 bridges at Foley Creek and Errie Creek. FDOT also plans to widen approximately one mile of University Parkway from Cattlemen Road to Market Street to accommodate the interchange improvements. The new interchange will improve pedestrian safety, ensure interstate traffic flows between two interchanges, alleviate delays, and reduce left hand turns into crossing traffic for all users.
Senator Nancy Detert said, "The investment in projects such as the I-75 University Parkway Interchange will not only improve travel and congestion on our roads, but will also help attract more visitors to our great state. I am excited to join Governor Scott at the groundbreaking today and look forward to seeing the completed result."
Senator Bill Galvano said, "The I-75 University Parkway Interchange project will help to create jobs and keep Florida families and tourists safe as they travel through Sarasota and Manatee counties. I am proud to stand with Governor Scott and all my fellow legislators in support of investing in our top-notch transportation network."
Senator Jeff Brandes said, "The I-75 University Parkway Interchange project will help Sarasota and Manatee Counties serve residents and tourists better and make our roads even safer. I am grateful to Governor Scott for his leadership in making transportation and infrastructure a major economic driver for Florida."
Representative Greg Steube said, "As Chairman of the Florida House of Representatives' Subcommittee on Highway & Waterway Safety, I would like to thank Governor Scott for hearing our regions concerns and for the DOT's rapid response. This interchange provides much needed improvements to our local region's evacuation routes, transportation corridors and will fortify our diligent efforts to keep ahead of the exponential growth occurring in both Manatee and Sarasota."
Representative Ray Pilon said, "Governor Scott understands the importance of investing in our transportation and infrastructure as we work to attract more businesses and visitors to our state. The groundbreaking today is truly an exciting event, and we will keep working together to build up important projects across Florida."
Representative Jim Boyd said, "The I-75 University Parkway Interchange Project will result in safer traveling conditions for drivers and pedestrians alike. I applaud Governor Scott for prioritizing projects that improve the safety and efficiency of Florida's expansive transportation network."
Representative Julio Gonzalez said, "With a record number of tourists and growing number of residents in our state, I commend Governor Scott for supporting projects like the I-75 University Parkway Interchange. Sarasota and Manatee Counties families will especially appreciate the completion of this project and I am proud to celebrate the groundbreaking today."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/09/02/governor-rick-scott-announces-kick-off-of-diverging-diamond-interchange-at-interstate-75/
