Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Johnson & Johnson Creation of 500 New Jobs in Tampa
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 27, 2015
Location: Tampa, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Johnson & Johnson, a global healthcare leader, will open a new North American shared services headquarters in Tampa and create 500 jobs over the next three years. The company will also make a capital investment of $23.5 million into the Tampa region. The multi-functional regional shared services center, which will be fully operational by mid-2016, will be part of a broader network of Johnson & Johnson centers that are designed to handle work for its operating companies in the areas of finance, human resources, information technology and procurement.
Governor Scott said, "Today I'm proud to announce that Johnson & Johnson will be creating 500 new jobs in Tampa. It's exciting that Johnson & Johnson chose Florida for its North America shared services headquarters over other states. I look forward to their continued success in Tampa and across the state."
"We currently have a strong presence in Florida and this new site will continue to build on the successes that our businesses have already achieved across the state," said Erin Champlin, Vice President, Johnson & Johnson Global Services. "We look forward to increasing our presence in the state and within the Tampa community."
As a right-to-work state with zero personal income tax and low corporate tax rates, Florida offers businesses a pro-growth business climate with fewer roadblocks and governmental regulations. And with more than 170 universities, colleges and technical institutes located throughout the state, Florida provides its companies a highly-skilled workforce and abundant opportunities for training. Florida's tax advantages, combined with a well-developed infrastructure, competitive business environment, access to international trade and skilled workforce, allow the state to consistently rank as one of the best in the nation for business.
Secretary of Commerce and Enterprise Florida president & CEO Bill Johnson said, "Florida's opportunity economy continues to grow thanks to global leading companies like Johnson & Johnson and its investments in Florida. Florida's business climate and workforce make a very compelling case for companies looking to locate their regional or hemispheric headquarters. We thank Johnson & Johnson for their continued commitment to the state."
The project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, Inc., the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, Hillsborough County, the City of Tampa, and the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation.
"Hillsborough County's high concentration of exceptionally skilled life sciences, information technology, and finance professionals provides an ideal workforce mix for Johnson & Johnson's North American shared services headquarters," said the Hon. Sandy Murman, Chair of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners. "We are excited to welcome Johnson & Johnson, and thank them for bringing excellent jobs and investing in our community."
"Tampa offers everything Johnson & Johnson needs to attract and retain the best talent for their new North American shared services headquarters," said Mayor Bob Buckhorn, City of Tampa. "Our city has become a magnet for well-educated millennials, and our lifestyle and business climate can't be beat. Johnson & Johnson made the right choice in choosing Tampa, and we look forward to supporting their growth here for decades to come."
Johnson & Johnson joins an increasing number of global companies that have decided to locate or expand operations in Tampa and Hillsborough County, including Bristol-Myers Squibb, Covidien, Amazon, and Ashley Furniture Industries.
"Tampa and Hillsborough County have an excellent track record of cross-disciplinary innovation in health care and life sciences, information technology, and financial and professional services," said Dr. Ronald Vaughn, Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation Chairman and University of Tampa President. "These strengths have positioned us a desirable destination for corporate and regional headquarters operations and factored into Johnson & Johnson's decision to choose Tampa over at least two other states that competed for this project. Hillsborough County is in the midst of an exciting period of growth and transformation, and that momentum is attracting corporations that see very promising futures here."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/08/27/governor-scott-announces-johnson-johnsons-creation-of-500-new-jobs-in-tampa/
