Public Statements
Governor Scott Highlights Job Growth at GA Telesis in Fort Lauderdale
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 18, 2015
Location: Fort Lauderdale, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott visited GA Telesis, one of the world's largest commercial aerospace firms, to highlight their recent job growth. Governor Scott highlighted GA Telesis' relocation of the GA Telesis Composite Repair Group from Arizona to Ft. Lauderdale. In addition to the relocation, GA Telesis added a new USA-based distribution center in Miami, which is creating 55 new jobs. Since 2011, GA Telesis has created 80 new jobs for Florida families, and the company expects to add 150 new jobs in Florida by 2020.
Governor Rick Scott said, "I am excited that GA Telesis has moved operations to Florida from Arizona and that their new Miami location will create 55 new jobs. Florida is a leader in aerospace and aviation, and companies like GA Telesis are helping expand these key industries in our state."
President and CEO of GA Telesis Abdol Moabery said, "When GA Telesis decided to relocate our distribution and maintenance facilities from Arizona, we knew that Florida was the best place for those jobs. We thank Governor Scott for his leadership because Florida's low tax, business friendly climate has facilitated our company's growth. We expect to create an additional 150 new Florida jobs in the next five years and look forward to our continued growth in Florida."
Florida is home to more than 2,000 aerospace and aviation companies that employ more than 80,000 Floridians and create an annual payroll impact of more than $5 billion in the state.
EFI president and CEO Bill Johnson said, "Florida is a leader in the aviation and aerospace industry thanks to Governor Scott's leadership. Florida is #1 for aviation manufacturing attractiveness, #1 for aviation and aerospace manufacturing workforce, and #2 in aviation, aerospace, and space establishments. Companies like GA Telesis are expanding and helping to grow Florida's strong aviation and aerospace industry."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/08/18/governor-scott-highlights-job-growth-at-ga-telesis-in-fort-lauderdale/
