Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott: We Will Continue to Protect Our Military as Florida National Guard Recruiting Centers Reopen
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 17, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the Florida National Guard has reopened the state's six store-front recruitment centers and National Guard personnel have returned upon completion of new safety upgrades. The Guardsmen were temporarily relocated to Florida National Guard Armories as part of Governor Scott's executive order to improve the security of store-front recruitment centers in the wake of the Tennessee shooting last month.
Updated safety protocols to the store-front recruitment centers include the adequate arming of all qualified, fulltime guardsmen; the enhancement of protective storefront infrastructure; and the assignment of an additional armed security officer. These security protocols will continue to be monitored and modified as necessary based on the acuity of the national security threat to the area.
Governor Scott said, "I commend Adjutant General Calhoun for his leadership and quick action as we implemented these new protocols and I am grateful for the brave men and women of the National Guard who stand ready to defend our homes and our families today. I will continue to do everything in my power to protect our military members here in Florida. I hope President Obama is taking notice of what we are doing in Florida, and that he takes similar actions to ensure every branch of our military is protected across our nation."
Florida Adjutant General Michael Calhoun said, "Governor Scott has made it clear that the safety of our Guardsmen is a top priority in Florida. Today, our state's six store-front recruitment centers are open and the Guardsmen inside are actively and proudly recruiting new heroes. All of our soldiers and airmen are capable and qualified to protect themselves, and I was proud to work with the Governor to ensure they are free to do so if the need arises."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/08/17/gov-rick-scott-we-will-continue-to-protect-our-military-as-florida-national-guard-recruiting-centers-reopen/
