Public Statements
Gov. Scott: CareerSource Florida Breaks Record for Businesses Provided With Employment Services
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 14, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott announced today that for a second consecutive year, the CareerSource Florida network provided training and employment services to a record number of businesses. From July 1, 2014, through June 30, 2015, 124,336 Florida businesses received employee services, a nearly 23-percent increase over the previous year. The CareerSource Florida network also assisted 445,437 Floridians who secured employment during the 2014-2015 fiscal year.
Governor Rick Scott said, "Because CareerSource Florida is connecting job creators with important employment and training services, Florida businesses are more prepared to compete in a global economy and create even more jobs for our families. Organizations like CareerSource Florida are helping us meet our goal of providing every Floridian with the opportunity to get a great job and build a career."
The CareerSource Florida network is focused on expanding business engagement, which includes raising awareness among Florida employers of the many recruiting, hiring and training services available. These services include connecting businesses with grants and assistance to train new or existing employees, as well as recruiting possible job candidates and helping with the full hiring process. CareerSource Florida and the state's network of 24 local workforce development boards have also developed a customer relationship management program with businesses and a consistent method to measure the effectiveness of employer outreach programs.
CareerSource Florida President and CEO Chris Hart IV said, "The CareerSource Florida network's Expanding Business Engagement initiative supports job growth, which helps more Floridians connect with great career opportunities to support themselves and their families. Together, our network partners more than doubled the businesses served from 2013 to 2014. To have increased this number by an additional 23 percent this past year shows our strong commitment to this effort."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/08/14/gov-scott-careersource-florida-breaks-record-for-businesses-provided-with-employment-services/
