Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces TUUCI's Expansion in Miami
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 11, 2015
Location: Miami, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced the expansion of TUUCI, LLC, a Miami-based, global outdoor shade manufacturer. The expansion will create 21 new jobs, retain 204 jobs and invest $1.25 million in a 100,000 square-foot facility.
Governor Scott said, "I am excited to announce TUUCI's expansion and the creation of 21 new jobs in Florida. While they considered other locations like North Carolina, I am glad TUUCI chose Florida for their continued growth."
"Building quality, marine-engineered shade structures right here in South Florida has been our mission for the past 17 years,' said Tom Parker, TUUCI President. "The shores of Miami inspired the birth of TUUCI so it's only fitting to be expanding what we started in this city".
Florida's advanced manufacturing industries are numerous and diverse thanks to its leading business climate, workforce, and trade and transportation structure. In total, Florida is home to more than 18,200 manufacturers employing nearly 320,000 workers. The Sunshine State ranks among the top 10 states for manufacturing. Florida offers a cost competitive environment, favorable overall tax structure, no personal income tax and a superior quality of life, giving companies benefits that will directly impact profits.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president & CEO said, "It's easy to be successful in Florida, thanks to Governor Scott's pro-business policies. Florida is the strategic and economic center of the Americas, and offers world-class business amenities and infrastructure. We congratulate TUUCI on their expansion and thank them for their continued commitment to Florida."
The TUUCI expansion was made possible through partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, The Beacon Council, the official economic development organization in Miami-Dade County, and Miami-Dade County.
Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos A. Gimenez said, "I am pleased that a home-grown company that has been able to expand and prosper will stay in our community, retain hundreds of jobs, create an additional 21 jobs and generate more than $1 million in new capital investment. It speaks to Miami-Dade's growth as a global business locale and the role of The Beacon Council. I hope TUUCI continues to grow and remains in Miami-Dade for decades to come."
Miami-Dade County Commission Chairman Jean Monestime said. "Expanding economic opportunities has been my top priority, so I'm thrilled by TUUCI's decision to grow its operations and create more jobs here in my district."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Florida companies continue to choose to stay and expand in Florida because of the Scott Administration's low-tax, pro-growth policies. TUUCI's continued growth is great news for families in and around Miami-Dade County."
Founded in Miami-Dade County more than 17 years ago, The Ultimate Umbrella Company (TUUCI) began in a small warehouse on Brickell Avenue and has grown to become a global leader in outdoor parasol, pavilion and lounge design and quality manufacturing. Headquartered in Unincorporated Northwest Miami-Dade, TUCCI manufactures its products here in Florida and sells them throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia. The company considered relocating to North Carolina earlier this year but decided to stay in Miami.
"While we considered relocating to North Carolina, the company's roots in Miami ran too deep. It was the breathtaking shores of South Florida that inspired us to create the world's best shade systems." said Dougan Clarke, CEO and Chief Product Architect of TUUCI. "The opportunity to expand the operation and add jobs to the community was exactly the right incentive to continue what we started here in Miami."
The Beacon Council assisted the company with site selection, and state and local incentives (QTI), a performance-based tax rebate incentive. The Beacon Council's economic development specialists helped the company determine eligibility, apply for and secure incentives for each new full time job created over the next three years. The company is located in an enterprise zone and empowerment zone.
"This is a great example of a company that has benefited from Miami's connectivity to the Americas, Europe and Asia," The Beacon Council President & CEO Larry K. Williams said. "And their products are on display in Miami and all over the world."
***
TUUCI, LLC has redefined the shade category with innovative shade structures. In addition to artistic beauty, TUUCI products are engineered with marine grade components that are durable and easy to operate. All shade platforms are custom-made at the Miami headquarters and are distributed worldwide through strategically located service centers. Outdoor cafés and many of the world's leading resorts, hotels and restaurants have selected TUUCI because of this combination of beauty, durability and function.
Enterprise Florida, Inc. (EFI) is a partnership between Florida's businesses and government leaders and is the principal economic development organization for Florida. EFI facilitates job growth for Florida businesses through recruitment and retention, international trade and exporting, promotion of sporting events, and capital funding programs to assist small and minority businesses.
The Beacon Council, Miami-Dade County's official economic development partnership, is a not-for-profit, public-private organization that focuses on job creation and economic growth by coordinating community-wide programs; promoting minority business and urban economic revitalization; providing assistance to local businesses in their expansion efforts; and marketing Greater Miami throughout the world.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/08/11/governor-scott-announces-tuucis-expansion-in-miami/
