Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Frontier Communications Corp. to Create 400 New Jobs in Deland
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 6, 2015
Location: Deland, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Frontier Communications Corporation has selected DeLand as the site for a new business unit and will create 400 new jobs. The expansion will also include a capital investment of approximately $2.5 million for Volusia County.
Governor Scott said, "I am excited to announce that 400 jobs will be created in Deland thanks to Frontier Communications' newest expansion. This great news means hundreds of new opportunities will be available to families in Volusia County."
Frontier Communications has existing business operations in DeLand and most recently completed an expansion in 2014 that added 180 jobs. Their new business unit will add 32,000 square feet of office space to accommodate the 400 new jobs. With this announcement, Frontier Communications' will employ 1,500 Floridians.
Kelly Morgan, Senior Vice President & General Manager of Frontier Secure, a service of Frontier, said, "Frontier has approached its tenth year doing business in Florida, and we owe that in large part to our partners from the state, county and local community. Florida also offers the talent we depend on to drive our 100% U.S.-based operations with the right technical capabilities. This expansion will provide us the additional capacity that we need to service our growing strategic partnership business."
Florida's 122,000 financial and professional firms employ 850,000 Floridians today, representing nearly 12 percent of Florida's workforce. Florida offers a cost competitive environment, favorable overall tax structure, no personal income tax and a superior quality of life, giving companies benefits that will directly impact profits. Florida has the second highest number of professional, scientific and technical services companies in the United States.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president & CEO said, "As a result of Governor Scott's pro-business policies, we continue to see job growth and diversification in Florida's economy. We thank Frontier Communications for their continued commitment to Florida."
The Frontier expansion was made possible through partnerships between Enterprise Florida, Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, CareerSource Florida, CareerSource Flagler Volusia, Team Volusia Economic Development Corporation, the City of DeLand and Volusia County..
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Frontier Communications' 400-job expansion is more great news for Florida's growing economy. These high-tech jobs will provide new opportunities for families in Deland."
As part of the project, CareerSource Florida has offered Frontier Communications performance-based grants for employee training through the Quick Response Training program. Quick Response Training grants are structured to be flexible and responsive to the training needs of new or expanding businesses.
Chris Hart IV, CareerSource Florida CEO and president, said, "In today's competitive business environment, companies look to proven workforce development solutions to not only remain relevant but thrive. Frontier Communications clearly understands that having the right skills within a growing organization is crucial to future success. We commend this company for its vision and congratulate it on this exciting expansion."
Robin King, President and CEO of CareerSource Flagler Volusia said, "I am pleased to see that Frontier's investments in these fields have contributed to their growth. CareerSource Flagler/Volusia has been engaged with Frontier Communications in their employee recruitment, hiring and development efforts since 2005. As they expand with this new business unit, our partnership will strengthen."
"Strengthening the Volusia County economy is one of the best ways we can ensure a better future for our citizens," said Jason Davis, Volusia County chair. "The County Council supported Frontier Communications' decision to locate a new facility in Volusia County and we look forward to their continued growth."
"The Frontier expansion provides quality jobs and bolsters the vitality of the north end of the city," DeLand Mayor Bob Apgar said. "It is an increase in jobs of more than 425 percent in nine years. Our City is pleased to have assisted in Frontier's job growth and facility expansions and we look forward to continuing DeLand's highly successful relationship with this leader in the telecommunications industry."
Team Volusia EDC Chair John Wanamaker said, "Team Volusia is excited to bring this new business unit to DeLand and Volusia County. It also is a great opportunity to work with Jones Lang Lasalle, one of the premier site selection firms in the country that worked as the site selection consultant on this project. Frontier's selection of DeLand for the new business unit is a testament to the quality of the workforce that exists in DeLand and Volusia County."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/08/06/governor-scott-announces-frontier-communications-corp-to-create-400-new-jobs-in-deland/
