Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Honors WWII Veterans
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 5, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott and the Florida Cabinet recognized August 8-16th as Victory Florida Week commemorating the 70 year anniversary of the ending of World War II. Governor Scott awarded 30 Florida veterans with the Governor's Veterans Service Award for their service to Florida and the nation. During World War II, 16 million Americans served in uniform, of which 248,000 were Floridians.
Governor Rick Scott said, "As the son of a World War II veteran, I know firsthand the sacrifices made by our service men, women and their families. During Victory Florida Week, we are honoring the sacrifices of America's Greatest Generation, saying thank you to those World War II veterans and remembering the fallen."
"Seventy years ago this week, the world reached a defining moment as World War II came to an end," said Florida Secretary of State Ken Detzner. "With the many training facilities in Florida serving the active military, and our dedicated workforce fighting the war on the home front, this state made historically significant contributions to securing liberty and freedom for millions of people around the world."
"At the end of the war, returning veterans and their families came to the Sunshine State in greater numbers, attracted by low tax rates and the warm climate," said Retired Army Colonel Mike Prendergast, Executive Director, Florida Department of Veterans' Affairs. "They used the GI Bill to advance their education, raise families and help propel the middle class to new prosperity. During Victory Florida Week, we continue to honor and serve our state's nearly 100,000 World War II veterans and reflect with pride on the selfless service and sacrifice of those who gave their lives to defend our freedoms."
Adjutant General Michael Calhoun said, "Victory Florida Week is about reflecting on the incredible sacrifices made by the men and women who fought for our freedom in World War II. Floridian service men and women had a huge role in protecting our country and I am proud to recognize all who protected our freedom. I encourage everyone to participate in commemorating our veterans and visit one of the many sites and museums in Florida that recognizes their service."
Organizations across the state are planning activities during Victory Florida Week to honor World War II veterans. Events to honor veterans during Victory Florida Week range from exhibitions sharing the stories of Florida's heroes and heroines to wreath laying tributes and commemorative sporting events. This week also recognizes the national "Spirit of '45 Day" across the state and nation.
To view the trail guide and the locations of World War II museums, memorials, and sites of interest in Florida, in addition to a complete listing of statewide commemorative events for Victory Florida Week, visit VivaFlorida.org/Victory.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/08/05/governor-rick-scott-honors-wwii-veterans/
