Public Statements
Governor Scott Awards Punta Gorda Business with Governor's Business Ambassador Award
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 5, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott recognized Charles Bushman, Founder and CEO of Arcadia Aerospace Industries, with the Governor's Business Ambassador Award. The Governor's Business Ambassador Award is given to individuals and businesses in recognition of their efforts to create jobs and opportunities for Florida families.
Governor Rick Scott said, "I am proud to award Charles and the rest of Arcadia Aerospace Industries with the Governor's Business Ambassador Award. It is rewarding to see great companies thrive and create jobs for Florida families. We have worked hard to make Florida the best state for business by cutting taxes 50 times, including eliminating the sales tax on manufacturers, so companies like Arcadia Aerospace Industries can succeed in Florida."
Charles Bushman, Founder and CEO of Arcadia Aerospace Industries, said, "On behalf of everyone at Arcadia Aerospace Industries, I would like to thank Governor Scott for presenting us with the Governor's Business Ambassador Award and his commitment to helping Florida businesses grow and succeed. We are proud to call Florida home and are looking forward to continued success in the Sunshine State."
Arcadia Aerospace Industries is committed to providing state-of-the-art defect detection solutions with advanced inspection techniques and superior customer service. The company employs a wide range of commercial and military Aerospace experts in engineering, manufacturing, robotics and non-destructive testing disciplines who are equipped to handle the rapidly changing demands of the aerospace composites industry. AAI's engineering team has developed state-of-the-art systems that contribute widely in the carbon fiber composite laminate, and aircraft structural component markets. AAI works with manufacturers such as Lockheed Martin, General Electric, Boeing, Gulfstream, Honda Aircraft Company, Airbus, Bell Textron, Sikorsky, Cessna and United Technologies.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/08/05/governor-scott-awards-punta-gorda-business-with-governors-business-ambassador-award/
