Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces HOERBIGER Will Create 420 New Jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 4, 2015
Location: Coral Springs, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced HOERBIGER will open a new North American manufacturing facility in Coral Springs and create 420 new jobs. The state-of-the-art plant in Coral Springs will feature the latest production engineering innovations and will create a $43.1 million capital investment in the region. The company will also retain 277 employees in Broward County.
Governor Scott said, "I am excited HOERBIGER has chosen Coral Springs to open a new manufacturing plant and create 420 new jobs for Florida families. Florida's workforce is exceptional and we are quickly becoming the best place in the country to get a job with companies like HOERBIGER moving jobs from Texas to Florida."
The new facility is part of HOERBIGER's plan to realign its reciprocating compressor component manufacturing operations in North America. This state-of-the-art plant will feature the latest production engineering innovations and employ approximately 420 team members initially. This facility will have the capacity to produce compression-molded bushings for the production of sealing rings, injection-molded sealing elements for compressor valves, steel-forming operations for the production of packing cases and compressor valves.
"We are thrilled to invest further in North America so we can better meet the needs of our customers in the Americas for decades to come," says Hannes Hunschofsky, Chief Operating Officer, Hoerbiger Compression Technology. "This Coral Springs facility is part of our new strategic footprint, defining how and where we build products in order to create new opportunities for our company, our business partners and our team members across the region."
Once the build out is complete, HOERBIGER will move its administration and production plants in Pompano Beach and Deerfield Beach, as well as moving jobs from Texas to the new Coral Springs location.


Source:
