Public Statements
Governor Scott Highlights I-75 Widening Project in Collier County
Press Release
By: Garrett Richter Kathleen Passidomo Carlos Trujillo Rick Scott Ray Rodrigues Andy Gardiner Matt Hudson
Date: July 30, 2015
Location: Naples, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott joined state and local officials to highlight the start of construction of a vital I-75 widening project in Collier County. The state invested $32 million for this project, which will widen almost 3.5 miles of I-75 to six lanes from Golden Gate Parkway (Exit 105) to SR 951 (Exit 101). The anticipated completion of this project is in 2017. Governor Scott also highlighted the 2015-2016 "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" budget, which invested $9.3 billion for the Department of Transportation, including $3.7 billion for future road construction.
Governor Rick Scott said, "Florida's expansive transportation network helps to create jobs, support businesses, and keep our growing number of Floridians and visitors safe. I am proud to recognize the start of the I-75 widening project, which will help improve the quality of transportation in one of the fastest growing regions of the state."
When the project is completed, I-75 will be six lanes from Alligator Alley (SR 951) to the Lee/Charlotte border. This project will relieve traffic congestion, reduce travel delays, and improve safety for Florida families and visitors on the Interstate for southern and eastern Collier County including Naples, Golden Gate, and Marco Island. Work will also include widening the bridges at the Golden Gate canal, improvements to the exiting ramps at Golden Gate Parkway and SR 951, noise wall installation and drainage improvements.
Florida Department of Transportation Secretary Jim Boxold said, "I commend Governor Scott and the Florida Legislature for their continued support of transportation improvements in our great state. This marks the second year in a row that the Governor has recommended and the legislature has approved a $10 billion plus budget for transportation infrastructure investments."
Senate President Andy Gardiner said, "Collier County will greatly benefit from this important project. This session, Governor Scott and the Legislature prioritized funding for the Florida Department of Transportation that will keep our five year work plan on track and make sure we proactively plan for Florida's future transportation infrastructure needs across our state."
President Pro Tempore Garrett Richter said, "By investing in projects like the one we are celebrating today in Collier County, we are furthering our goal of creating the best possible infrastructure in Florida. I commend Governor Scott for working to build on Florida's already excellent reputation as a transportation hub."
Speaker Pro Tempore Matt Hudson said, "The I-75 widening will greatly strengthen Collier County's ability to attract residents and visitors, and I am excited to join Governor Scott in recognizing the start of this project. We have kept transportation improvement at the top of our priority list, because we know it is a great step in creating jobs and growing opportunity in Florida."
Representative Kathleen Passidomo said, "Governor Scott and the legislature have approved incredible investments in transportation infrastructure projects because we understand the importance this holds for our families and our visitors. I join all of Collier County in looking forward to the results of the I-75 widening project."
Representative Matt Caldwell said, "I applaud Governor Scott for continuing to prioritize investments in Florida's expansive transportation network. Improvements like this project will provide safer, more efficient methods of travel for Florida's many families and visitors."
Representative Carlos Trujillo said, "With Florida reaching record tourism numbers, safety for our visitors and Florida families is one of our top priorities. I am grateful to Governor Scott for recognizing the impact of projects like the I-75 widening."
Representative Ray Rodrigues said, "Last year Florida had a record 98.9 million visitors to our state and we are determined to make our roads as safe as possible for all of the families that travel on them. I applaud Governor Scott for his focus on maintaining a first-class infrastructure system in Florida."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/30/governor-scott-highlights-i-75-widening-project-in-collier-county/
