Public Statements
Gov. Scott: State Funding for Building Homes for Heroes to Help Build Record Number of Homes for Disabled Veterans
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 29, 2015
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted $1 million included in the "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" Budget for Building Homes for Heroes, a non-profit organization that builds or modifies homes, and gifts them mortgage‐free to injured veterans and their families. The funding provided by the state will allow the organization to build a record number of homes for disabled veterans in Florida this year. At today's celebration, Governor Scott also awarded 58 veterans with the Governor's Veterans Service Award for their service to Florida and the nation.
Governor Scott said, "We are proud to make this important investment in Building Homes for Heroes because it is one more way we can support our veterans and their families. Because of this funding, this outstanding organization will be able to build a record number of homes for disabled veterans in Florida this year. I look forward to welcoming even more veterans and their families to their future homes in Florida."
Building Homes for Heroes is on pace to construct or modify 40 homes for Florida veterans and their families this year. By the end of 2015, Building Homes for Heroes will work with nearly 300 Florida contractors and vendors to gift or modify a total of 55 homes for Florida veterans.
Andy Pujol, president and founder of Building Homes for Heroes, Inc. said, "Building Homes for Heroes is a blend of state government, corporations, contractors and communities all across Florida collectively helping our veterans. Our return on state investment is greater three times the state dollar amount granted to us, and this year, we plan to gift or modify 40 homes in Florida alone. We are grateful to Governor Scott for making veterans a priority and we look forward to putting this $1 million investment to great use. Together, we are playing a major role in not only building homes, but also rebuilding the lives of our nation's heroes and their families."
During the event, Governor Scott highlighted the service of Florida veterans and home recipients Air Force Master Sergeant Joseph Deslauriers and Army Specialist Hugo Gonzalez.
Air Force Master Sergeant Joseph Deslauriers -- Home Recipient (Destin)
Air Force Master Sergeant Joseph Deslauriers served two tours of duty in Afghanistan and Iraq. In September 2011, Sergeant Deslauriers stepped on a mine while conducting an assessment of a previous IED explosion. The blast caused him to lose both legs above the knee, and his left arm at the elbow. Sergeant Deslauriers was immediately evacuated to Maryland to receive emergency medical treatments. He was greeted by his wife Lisa, who was eight months pregnant with their first child. Sergeant Deslauriers earned the Purple Heart, Bronze Star Medal, Joint Service and US Air Force Commendation Medal, and many more accommodations. Sergeant Deslauriers and his wife Lisa received a home from Building Homes for Heroes in Destin last year, and they are happy to be raising their son Cameron and their younger daughter Kennedy in the Sunshine State.
Army Specialist Hugo Gonzalez -- Upcoming Home Recipient (Port. St. Lucie)
Army Specialist Hugo Gonzalez was severely injured in combat in Iraq in 2004 when his unit was ambushed. Specialist Gonzalez suffered a traumatic brain injury when his unit's vehicle took a direct hit from an IED, and he was evacuated to the base camp for emergency care. The blast left him legally blind and he has received long-term therapy for the injury to his brain. Specialist Gonzalez has been recognized with the Purple Heart, Army Achievement Medal, National Defense Service Medal, and many more accommodations. Last year, Governor Scott announced that Specialist Gonzalez, his wife, and their three children would be receiving a home from Building Homes for Heroes. They will be able to move into their new home in Port St. Lucie, Florida, later this year.
Governor's Veterans Service Award
The "Governor's Veterans Service Award" honors Floridians who have served in the U.S. Military. The front of the medal depicts the Great Seal of the State of Florida. The back of the medal displays the five seals representing the five branches of U.S. Military with an inscription that reads "Honoring Those Who Served."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/29/gov-scott-state-funding-for-building-homes-for-heroes-to-help-build-record-number-of-homes-for-disabled-veterans/
