Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott: More Than 44,000 Persons with Disabilities Placed Into Jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 24, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that since 2011, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity and its partner CareerSource Florida have connected 44,179 individuals with disabilities with job opportunities. Governor Scott also issued a proclamation recognizing July 26th as Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Awareness Day.
Governor Scott said, "We have made important investments to help people with disabilities receive on-the-job training and internships, as well as eliminate the wait list for individuals with critical needs for two years in a row. More than 44,000 individuals with disabilities have found jobs in Florida over the past four years, and we will keep working to create more opportunities for everyone in our state to succeed. I am honored to recognize July 26th as Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Awareness Day."
Agency for Persons with Disabilities Director Barbara Palmer said, "I am excited about celebrating 25 years of the Americans with Disabilities Act in America. So many wonderful changes have occurred because of the ADA to help individuals with disabilities be included in all aspects of society. This is a fantastic opportunity to recognize the many positives things that have happened to improve access for people with disabilities."
Jesse Panuccio, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity said, "Every Floridian who wants a job should be able to get a job, and we are committed to helping those individuals with disabilities find a job that is perfect for them. Gainful employment affirms the inherent worth of an individual, and it allows individuals with disabilities to gain new relationships and new skills, and to show the world that a disability is not a barrier to their career."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/24/gov-rick-scott-more-than-44000-persons-with-disabilities-placed-into-jobs/
