Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Holds Ceremonial Bill Signing for the All-American Flag Act
Press Release
By: Matt Gaetz Bob Cortes Steve Crisafulli Brad Drake Daphne Campbell Andy Gardiner Thad Altman Rick Scott
Date: July 16, 2015
Location: Panama City, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott ceremonially signed HB 225, the "All-American Flag Act," requiring all United States and state flags purchased by the state of Florida to be made entirely from domestically grown materials beginning on January 1, 2016.
Governor Scott said, "I was proud to sign the All-American Flag Act because it shows appreciation to our brave men and women in uniform, veterans and businesses in our great nation. As a Navy veteran myself, I am proud that we will continue to honor all of our military members that give us the opportunity to live the American Dream."
Senate President Andy Gardiner said, "Our nation's flag is an important symbol of our pride as Floridians and Americans. The All-American Flag Act further demonstrates how thankful we are to our brave military members and veterans for their service to protect our nation."
House Speaker Steve Crisafulli said, "Every flag that flies over our state buildings is an important portrayal of the ideals that Floridians and Americans value most, and I am proud that Governor Scott signed the All-American Flag Act honoring its significance."
Representative Matt Gaetz said, "We are proud that American flags flown in our state will now be required to be made in the US. Thank you to Governor Scott for signing this bill and to all of our military members who have served to protect our nation."
Representative Brad Drake said, "Requiring all American flags to be US-made is another way we can show appreciation for our veterans and American businesses. Thank you Governor Scott for signing the All-American Flag Act into law."
Representative Bob Cortes said, "The American flag represents our national pride and I would like to personally thank Governor Scott for signing this bill into law. We are so proud of our Florida veterans."
Senator Thad Altman said, "Governor Scott's signing of the All-American Flag Act serves as a thank you to our Florida service men and women. We are all grateful for their courage and sacrifices."
Representative Daphne Campbell said, "I applaud Governor Scott for signing the All-American Flag Act and his on-going commitment to making Florida the most military friendly state in the nation."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/16/governor-rick-scott-holds-ceremonial-bill-signing-for-the-all-american-flag-act/
