Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announces Accusoft Headquarters Expansion Will Create 125 New Jobs in Tampa
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 14, 2015
Location: Tampa, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Accusoft, a global provider of document, content and imaging solutions, will expand its headquarters in Tampa and create 125 new jobs by 2019. The expansion will also create a $5.25 million capital investment, including land. Accusoft currently employs over 120 people in Florida.
Governor Scott said, "Companies like Accusoft know Florida's pro-business climate is the best place to grow and create jobs, and we are excited to announce 125 new jobs for Tampa Bay families today. Each job that is created in our state helps a family put food on the table, pay their rent, and provide for their children. Even though Florida has created almost 880,000 private sector jobs in four and half years, we won't stop working until Florida is the global destination for jobs."
Accusoft was founded in Tampa in 1991 as Pegasus Imaging Corporation and rebranded itself as Accusoft in 2012. The Florida expansion will add up to 25,000 square feet and create a $5,250,000 capital investment in the region. The new jobs will fill a variety of roles in the organization, including software development and engineering. The company is more than doubling its local workforce, and will begin hiring immediately. Accusoft also has a location in Massachusetts.
Jack Berlin, president & CEO of Accusoft said, "We're thankful for the support and teamwork shown by the state of Florida and Hillsborough County to help us grow at an even faster rate. It means a lot to Accusoft to be given an opportunity to create meaningful, high-paying jobs in the Tampa Bay area. This partnership and support will help us attain our company's goals while also benefiting the local economy."
Florida's IT strengths include diverse and growing sectors and more than 26,000 IT companies, which employ 245,700 professionals. Florida is 5th in high-tech employment and ranks at the top for employment in communications equipment manufacturing, internet and telecommunications, engineering services, computer systems design and other fields. Florida is ranked third in the nation for high tech establishments, and the Florida High Tech Corridor, anchored by the Tampa Bay region, has been named one of the top tech job hot spots in the U.S.
Bill Johnson, president & CEO of Enterprise Florida, Inc., said, "Congratulations to Accusoft on this expansion. It's great to see companies like Accusoft -- partners in our communities for nearly a quarter-century -- finding the resources they need for continued success and growth in the IT industry here in Florida."
The project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, CareerSource Florida, the City of Tampa, Hillsborough County and the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Accusoft's expansion in Tampa is another example of the Scott Administration's business-friendly policies helping a Florida company grow. The successes of companies like Accusoft show the nation why Florida's flourishing high-tech corridor is quickly becoming a hub for STEM employment."
As part of the project, CareerSource Florida has offered Accusoft performance-based grants for employee training through the Quick Response Training program. Quick Response Training grants are structured to be flexible and responsive to the training needs of new or expanding businesses.
Chris Hart IV, CareerSource Florida CEO and president, said, "The growth of IT innovators like Accusoft emphasizes the value to businesses of Florida's skilled workforce. Talent attracts talent, and the CareerSource Florida network is delighted to assist companies like Accusoft with expansion efforts."
City of Tampa Mayor Bob Buckhorn said, "Accusoft is an incredible example of the successful entrepreneurial information technology companies we grow right here in Tampa. Over the past twenty-plus years, as they acquired companies and spun off new ones, Jack Berlin and his team have had many opportunities to relocate. They chose to stay here, helped create this city's booming technology sector, and proved that companies like theirs can attract the best software developers and engineers to Tampa. We're excited about what the future holds for Accusoft and thank them for creating more excellent jobs for our community."
Hon. Sandy Murman, Chair of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners, said, "The competition nationwide for information technology companies and the high wage jobs they generate is intense. Accusoft's decision to expand here instead of Massachusetts, where they have another location, speaks volumes about the support and resources they've received from Hillsborough County. We've raised our game to make sure that fast growing local tech companies are getting the business assistance they need, from startups to the Fortune 500."
Dr. Ronald Vaughn, Chairman of the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation and President of the University of Tampa, said, "The information technology industry continues to drive high skill, high wage job creation in Tampa and Hillsborough County. The collaborative efforts of our universities, technology companies, and government and workforce partners to address the surging need for top IT talent is paying off. Companies like Accusoft are finding a rich pipeline of highly skilled software developers, engineers, and computer network architects and are confidently moving forward with aggressive plans for growth here."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/14/governor-rick-scott-announces-accusoft-headquarters-expansion-will-create-125-new-jobs-in-tampa/
