Public Statements
Gov. Scott Celebrates Record Funding for Persons with Disabilities
Press Release
By: Ray Rodrigues Jose Oliva Carlos Trujillo Rene Garcia Rick Scott Steve Crisafulli Lizbeth Benacquisto Holly Raschein Jeanette Nunez Andy Gardiner Eleanor Sobel
Date: July 13, 2015
Location: Miami, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott ceremonially signed Senate Bill 642, the Florida Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act. The bill establishes a trust fund for certain people with disabilities to use for important services such as education, housing, and transportation. Governor Scott also celebrated the elimination of the APD critical needs waiting list for the second year in a row in his "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" budget. This year's budget also includes $1 million for the Employment Enhancement Project (EEP) which better connects individuals with disabilities with possible employers and job opportunities. Governor Scott has provided a record investment of $1.2 billion for APD this year and $96 million over the past three years to help eliminate APD's critical needs waitlist.
Governor Rick Scott said, "The ABLE Act will help improve the lives of individuals with disabilities in our state by helping them work to get jobs. I'm very proud we have also eliminated the entire waiting list for Floridians with critical needs for a second year in a row."
Agency for Persons with Disabilities Director Barbara Palmer said, "I am ecstatic with Governor Scott's "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" budget for APD. It invests $1.2 billion to support people with disabilities so they may participate in their local communities. This is the third year in a row that a significant amount of funding has been allocated for the waiver waiting list. The total over three years is $96 million to serve the waiting list. I thank Governor Scott and the Legislature for their strong backing of APD customers. Additionally, I am happy that Governor Scott signed the Florida ABLE Act for individuals with disabilities to save money in a tax-free savings account for future services without losing their eligibility for state and federal benefits. I think this will be a great help to families who want to save money for their family member with a disability."
Senate President Andy Gardiner said, "Our current system of reducing or cutting off benefits to those who exceed a relatively small income or asset threshold disincentivizes people with unique abilities from pursuing employment opportunities. Senate Bill 642, the Florida ABLE Act, corrects this issue and provides the opportunity for persons with unique abilities to use their talents in the workforce, earn a wage, and save for the future without the concern of losing important state and federal benefits."
House Speaker Steve Crisafulli said, "Governor Rick Scott is leading the way for opportunities for Floridians with disabilities. Providing $1.2 billion dollars in this year's "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" allows APD to continue enriching the lives of thousands of Floridians and their families."
Representative Ray Rodrigues said, "I thank Governor Scott for signing SB 642 providing more beneficial services for individuals with disabilities. We are committed to providing equal opportunities for all Floridians in our state, and will continue working to support this important mission of APD and other service providers."
Senator Lizbeth Benacquisto said, "SB 642 becoming law will continue to provide opportunities for Floridians with unique abilities and I am proud to be a part of the team that made that possible."
Senator Eleanor Sobel said, "Governor Scott's signing of SB 642 is proof of his commitment to improving the quality of life for Florida families. Creating the Florida ABLE program will provide more opportunities and enhance the lives of individuals living with disabilities in our state."
Senator Rene Garcia said, "I commend Governor Scott for his continued support of individuals with disabilities. His "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" budget has made a record investment of $1.2 billion for the Agency of Persons with Disabilities. This money enables all Floridians the opportunity to improve their quality of life by providing services such as workforce training."
Representative Carlos Trujillo said, "I am pleased Governor Scott's "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" budget includes over $40 million removing more than 2,000 individuals with critical needs from the waiting list. Workforce training provides every person the opportunity to achieve their highest potential and benefits the entire community."
Representative Jose Oliva said, "For the past two years, funding to remove individuals on the wait list has been fully provided and has improved the quality of life for Floridians with disabilities. The waiver provides essential services to individuals with developmental disabilities so they are able to succeed. I commend Governor Scott for his ongoing commitment to APD and the people they assist."
Representative Holly Raschein said, "With the record $1.2 billion funding for APD, Governor Scott's "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" budget allows individuals with critical needs on the waiting list the access to life- changing services. Floridians with disabilities will benefit from these important investments allowing for personal growth and job training benefits in communities and Florida businesses."
Representative Jeanette Nunez said, "Governor Scott's focus on improving the quality of life for persons with disabilities is fantastic news for the Miami community. The $1 million in funding allows our disabled community the ability to receive workforce training. Hiring employees with disabilities provides unique experiences and understanding that transforms a workplace environment in a positive way."
APD Southern Regional Operations Manager Evelyn Alvarez said, "A heartfelt thank you to Governor Scott and the Florida Legislature for allowing us the opportunity for a third year to continue serving individuals on the waiting list with immediate needs and provide employment supports. The APD Southern Region Team is excited to be part of improving the quality of life of individuals with special needs!"
Marian Center School & Services Inc. Director of Adult Services Barbara Psinakis said, "We at the Marian Center School and Services would like to thank Governor Scott for assisting people with developmental disabilities to strive to achieve all they can be. The funds that have been given will greatly help families that are on the waiting list and give individuals the chance to attend programs and receive help in finding job placements to enhance their lives."
Rose Marie Olsen-Barbara, Family Care Council Area 11 Chairperson said, "I want to thank Governor Scott and the Florida Legislature for their support of people with developmental disabilities. The Keep Florida Working budget that was passed for 2015-2016 includes $40 million dollars that will allow more than 2,000 people to get off the Medicaid waiver waiting list and receive services through the iBudget Medicaid waiver. Additionally, funding of $1 million dollars has been allocated towards employment programs for individuals with developmental disabilities. On behalf of the Family Care Council of Area 11 serving Miami-Dade and Monroe counties, thank you for listening to the families and believing that people with disabilities may have a meaningful fulfilling life and may contribute to the workforce in our state."
APD annually serves more than 50,000 Floridians with autism, cerebral palsy, spina bifida, intellectual disabilities, Down syndrome, and Prader-Willi syndrome. For more information about the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, visit APDcares.org or call 1‑866‑APD‑CARES.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/13/gov-scott-celebrates-record-funding-for-persons-with-disabilities/
