Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Dixon Ticonderoga Company Expanding in Seminole County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 10, 2015
Location: Seminole County, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Dixon Ticonderoga Company, an industry leading manufacturer of writing instruments, art supplies and other tools, will expand its Central Florida headquarters in Lake Mary with the addition of 20 jobs and a capital investment of $1.5 million over the next three years.
Governor Scott said, "We are excited to announce that Dixon Ticonderoga Company is expanding their headquarters and creating new opportunities for families in Seminole County. More than 879,000 private-sector jobs have been added in our state over the last four and a half years and we're working every day to create more jobs for the families in our state."
Since 1795, Dixon Ticonderoga Company has been an industry leading manufacturer of writing instruments, art supplies, and other tools. More than 50 million students use Dixon Ticonderoga's products every day across the nation. As the maker of the iconic No. 2 pencil, Dixon Ticonderoga is an avid supporter of education, facilitating more than $1.5 million in product donations and teacher grants to education each year. The company will open its National Museum in Florida this fall.
Tim Gomez, CEO of Dixon Ticonderoga Company, said, "I'm very appreciative that the State of Florida recognized the value that the Dixon Ticonderoga Company brings to the community and the job possibilities that will be created for our communities in the future. Florida is the perfect place to set up the headquarters for our upcoming growth. We identify deeply with the state of Florida, going back to our days of creating products from local sources on Cedar Key. I'm excited for our headquarters expansion and to bring our National Museum to the Sunshine State for our communities to enjoy starting in the fall of 2015."
"Dixon Ticonderoga has been helping students, artists, industrial professionals and others communicate and design for more than 220 years," said Bill Johnson, president & CEO of Enterprise Florida. "Being able to support and help a successful company like that grow is a testament to Florida's resources and pro-business climate. We thank Dixon Ticonderoga for their continued commitment to Florida and look forward to watching their growth."
Enterprise Florida, the Department of Economic Opportunity, CareerSource Florida and CareerSource Central Florida, City of Lake Mary, Seminole County, Seminole State College and the Orlando Economic Development Commission collaborated on this project expansion.
Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "We are excited to announce that Dixon Ticonderoga has chosen to expand its headquarters in Lake Mary, Florida. The creation of 20 new manufacturing jobs in the community will mean more opportunity for high-skill, high-wage employment for Floridians."
"In today's globally competitive marketplace, a skilled workforce is more essential than ever for business success," said Chris Hart IV, president and CEO of CareerSource Florida. "We are delighted to partner with a leading company such as Dixon Ticonderoga, which is expanding in Florida, to enhance the knowledge and productivity of its employees through a Quick Response Training Grant."
"The City of Lake Mary is proud to be called home for the Dixon Ticonderoga Company," said Mayor David Mealor. "This company is recognized for its long history of excellence, and we think that aligns well with our City's values."
"Lake Mary is pleased that the Dixon Ticonderoga Company decided to relocate and expand in our City," said Tom Tomerlin, Economic Development Manager, Lake Mary. "Having another iconic business in our City helps spread the word that Lake Mary is open for business."
"Seminole County is very pleased that Dixon Ticonderoga is growing its corporate headquarters in Lake Mary," said Seminole County Chairman Brenda Carey. "Being home to such a well-known and highly regarded company is great news for everyone in Seminole County!"
"Seminole State College, through our Quick Response Training Grant program, is delighted to assist this iconic educational brand as it expands its operations in Lake Mary," said Dr. E. Ann McGee, president of Seminole State College. "This growth will provide excellent employment opportunities for our region and for our graduates."
"We are very excited about the expansion of Dixon's headquarters in the region," said Rick Weddle, president and CEO of the Orlando Economic Development Commission. "Not only for the positive investment and job creation, but also for the important connections they have made and continue to make in regards to education."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/10/governor-scott-announces-dixon-ticonderoga-company-expanding-in-seminole-county/
