Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announces Harris Corporation Will Continue to Expand Corporate Headquarters in Florida
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 10, 2015
Location: Melbourne, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Harris Corporation will keep its corporate headquarters in Melbourne, Florida and continue to expand in the Sunshine State. The company considered relocating their headquarters to Virginia but chose to remain in Florida. Harris has approximately 23,000 employees, including about 6,000 in Brevard County.
Governor Scott said, "We are excited to announce today that Harris Corporation has chosen Florida as the best place for their business. Thousands of Floridians are currently employed by Harris Corporation, and this decision means they will continue to be able to work and provide for their families. Over the past four and half years, we have worked to lower taxes and reduce regulations so businesses like Harris Corporation can succeed and create opportunities in the Sunshine State. We will keep working to grow jobs and make Florida the number one place in the world for business."
William Brown, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Harris Corporation, said, "Thanks to the leadership of Governor Scott and the low tax, business-friendly climate in Florida, Harris Corporation has decided to keep our corporate headquarters in Brevard County. We are proud of our decades-long relationship with the local community and we appreciate the support of the Governor and the local economic development commission as we remained focused on our future growth. We know Florida is the best place for our company, and we look forward to many more years of success in the Sunshine state."
Harris Corporation provides advanced, technology-based solutions that solve government and commercial customers' mission critical challenges. Harris has been headquartered in Brevard County since 1978. Harris Corporation recently completed an acquisition and merger with Exelis, a defense contractor based just outside of Washington, DC.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/10/governor-rick-scott-announces-harris-corporation-will-continue-to-expand-corporate-headquarters-in-florida/
