Public Statements
Governor Scott: ILP to Create 35 New Jobs in Orlando
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 9, 2015
Location: Sanford, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott visited Industrial Lighting Products (ILP), a manufacturer of high efficiency commercial lighting products, to highlight the company's recent growth. The company currently employs over 160 Floridians and plans to add 35 new jobs in the Orlando area over the next year.
Governor Rick Scott said, "The Orlando metro area is leading the state in job creation because of job creators like ILP. ILP is one of the many great companies that have found success in Florida, and I am proud to join ILP's hardworking team to celebrate more than 160 jobs for Central Florida families. Florida has added over 879,000 jobs in four and a half years and we will keep working so we are the best place in the world to get a great job."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Industrial Lighting Products' expansion is another bright spot in Orlando's booming economy. The Scott administration's policies are working to help businesses expand and provide job opportunities for Floridians."
Jason Hendren, founder and president of Industrial Lighting Products said, "Florida supports a business friendly environment that allows job creators to expand and continue to grow. We applaud Governor Scott's leadership in paving the way for businesses in our state and look forward to Industrial Lighting Products' continued success in Central Florida."
Industrial Lighting Products is headquartered in Sanford, Florida, and produces energy efficient lighting fixtures for companies such as Chrysler, Duracell, Black and Decker, 3M, Dannon and Walt Disney World. ILP is on track to expand from 40,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet by 2016. ILP's customer base spans the entire U.S. as well as Canada, Central and South America, the Caribbean, and even as far away as American Samoa. To learn more about their company, visit http://www.ilp-inc.com/.
Florida's manufacturing sector ranks among the top 10 nationwide with more than 18,200 companies employing some 317,000 people statewide. Florida offers a competitive environment with no sales tax on manufacturing equipment as well as a highly-educated workforce that all helps businesses grow.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/09/governor-scott-ilp-to-create-35-new-jobs-in-orlando/
