Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott Announces Bluegrace Logistics To Create 100 New Jobs In Hillsborough County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 8, 2015
Location: Tampa, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that BlueGrace Logistics is expanding its headquarters and creating 100 new jobs in Hillsborough County. BlueGrace Logistics is a leading national provider of complete, customized transportation management solutions. The new jobs will fulfill a variety of functions in the organization, including technology, accounting, legal and professional services. BlueGrace is currently headquartered in Riverview in Hillsborough County and has 165 employees in offices nationwide.
Governor Scott said, "I'm proud to announce that BlueGrace Logistics is creating 100 new jobs in Riverview, which is great news for Florida families. We are working every day to make Florida the number one state for job creation, and with more than 879,000 private-sector jobs created in a little over four years, it's working. We will continue to work so that every family can get a great job and live their dream in Florida."
Bobby Harris founded BlueGrace Logistics in Apollo Beach in 2009. The company offers a web-based proprietary transportation management system, BlueShip®, that enables companies to consolidate all of their shipping requirements into one resource, as well as freight services including Less Than Truckload (LTL), Truckload Services (TL), International and Domestic Air Freight, Ocean Freight, and Supply Chain Management.
"More than ever, top talent from across the U.S. wants to make Tampa their home," said Bobby Harris, CEO of BlueGrace Logistics. "This partnership helps make that a reality. We couldn't be more excited to further our investment in expanding in this market."
The broader wholesale trade, transportation and logistics industry employs more than half a million Floridians. Nearly every major global logistics integrator already has a presence in the state, including the headquarters of top logistics companies. The state's logistics & distribution industry is poised to grow further with the Panama Canal expansion in 2016, and the numerous infrastructure developments and upgrades underway around the state.
Bill Johnson, president & CEO of Enterprise Florida said, "Our expansive, multi-modal infrastructure not only supports nearly 20 million residents but close to 100 million annual visitors to our state. It's a compelling reason for great companies like BlueGrace Logistics to have a presence in Florida and we're happy they've decided to locate here."
The project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, Hillsborough County and the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Tampa continues to be a leading market in Florida's economic resurgence and we are pleased to see that BlueGrace Logistics recognizes the potential for growth in this area. These additional 100 jobs will provide even more opportunities in the Tampa area and contribute to Florida's thriving private sector."
"BlueGrace Logistics is a prime example of the kind of innovative, high growth local company that we will work hard to retain in Hillsborough County," said the Hon. Sandra Murman, Chair of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners. "Three other states have offered BlueGrace attractive relocation packages and attempted to recruit them away from our region, but we are committed to keeping them here and giving them the support they need to achieve greater success and bring more jobs to our community."
"BlueGrace Logistics is emerging as one of Hillsborough County's great entrepreneurial success stories," said Dr. Ronald Vaughn, Chair of the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation and President of the University of Tampa. "In just six years, they have built one of the most progressive transportation and supply chain management companies in the country by developing superior technology solutions to serve the freight industry's needs. Hillsborough County offers them the talent and pro-business environment they need to keep up their exceptional growth."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/08/gov-rick-scott-announces-bluegrace-logistics-to-create-100-new-jobs-in-hillsborough-county/
