Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces New United Technologies Customer Experience Center to Create 380 Jobs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 6, 2015
Location: Palm Beach Gardens, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that United Technologies will expand in Florida with the development of a new world-class customer showcase for its industry-leading building products. The UTC Center for Intelligent Buildings will bring 380 jobs and a capital investment of $115 million to the region.
Governor Scott said, "I am proud to announce that UTC Building & Industrial Systems has picked Florida for their new Center for Intelligent Buildings, which will add 380 jobs in the Palm Beach community. We know UTC picked Florida over other locations in the Southeast and we look forward to their continued success in the Sunshine State."
UTC Building & Industrial Systems is the world's largest provider of building technologies. Through innovation and integration, UTC Building & Industrial Systems brings together technologies from across its industry-leading brands to improve building efficiency and occupant experience. The organization combines cutting-edge HVAC with intuitive software, pairs breakthrough elevator technology with advanced security solutions, and merges entry control solutions with building automation systems to maximize comfort and enhance productivity -- while minimizing energy consumption.
Geraud Darnis, President and CEO of UTC Building & Industrial Systems, said, "We are excited to announce the development of a first-of-its-kind, intelligent and sustainable customer center. This living showplace will serve as a destination for the global building community, offering truly integrated, whole-building solutions. We chose Florida among other potential locations in the Southeast for its ideal climate for year-round demonstration of advanced, energy efficient cooling technologies, as well as its proximity to existing UTC facilities and neighboring international airports."

Source:
