Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Holds Ceremonial Bill Signing to Celebrate Washington Nationals and Houston Astros New Spring Training Facility
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 6, 2015
Location: Palm Beach County, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott held a ceremonial bill signing for House Bill 1213. The legislation further advances a new spring training facility which will be home to the Washington Nationals and Houston Astros. This year, Governor Scott announced that the two teams will remain in Florida for the next 30 years and Florida will continue to retain its 15 spring training teams in the Grapefruit League.
Governor Scott said, "Spring training and Major League Baseball are a major reason why Florida continues to welcome record numbers of tourists. Last year almost 99 million people visited Florida -- and we're on pace for even more visitors this year. With the Nationals and Astros announcing their spring training operations will remain in Florida for the next 30 years, and the news that our state will host the MLB All Star Game in 2017, it's clear that Florida is the number one state for baseball in the country."
Jim Crane, owner of the Houston Astros, said, "Thank you to Governor Rick Scott for supporting the new facility. Today is a great day for baseball, and we are thrilled to have West Palm Beach and Palm Beach County be our new home for spring training."
Mayor Shelley Vana, of Palm Beach County, said, "Palm Beach County has worked hard to create a premier spring training destination here in South Florida, and today's bill signing moves us that much further towards our goal. Together, with our partners, we welcome two more major league teams to Palm Beach County for a total of four teams and I can't wait to see the first pitch get thrown at the new stadium."
West Palm Beach Mayor Jeri Muoio said, "Today's signing and the economic benefit that baseball will bring us all is a perfect example of how much can be accomplished when all levels of government, from city to county to the state, work together on behalf of all our residents."
Daniel Martell of the Economic Council of Palm Beach County said, "I would like to thank Governor Scott for holding today's bill signing and for making Spring Training baseball a priority in Palm Beach County. With the new facility and the commitment of the Houston Astros and Washington Nationals, Palm Beach County is quickly becoming one of the world's premier destinations for recreation and business. I look forward to our continued work to create more jobs and opportunities for all of the families who call Palm Beach County home."
Major League Baseball, and Florida Spring Training, has played an important role in attracting visitors to Florida for more than 125 years. The sports industry brings over $43 billion to Florida annually and accounts for 13.3 million visitors to the state each year.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/06/governor-rick-scott-holds-ceremonial-bill-signing-to-celebrate-washington-nationals-and-houston-astros-new-spring-training-facility/
