Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces Avid Technology Expansion to Create 100 Jobs in Boca Raton
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 6, 2015
Location: Boca Raton, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Avid Technology, a provider of audio and video technology for the media and entertainment industry, will expand its North American administrative headquarters to Boca Raton. The expansion is planned to take place over the next three years, ultimately creating 100 jobs and $2.6 million in capital investment.
Governor Scott said, "Avid considered national and international locations for this expansion and we're excited to announce that they selected Florida. Since December 2010, more than 879,000 private-sector jobs have been created in our state, and we are focused on being the best state in the nation for businesses to grow. We will continue working to improve the state's business climate and create more jobs for Florida families."
With more than a 25-year heritage of innovation and leadership, Avid is uniquely positioned to help organizations and professionals succeed in the highly competitive and rapidly changing media technology industry. Customers from the largest media organizations in the world, to small and medium-sized studios and facilities, to individual audio and video artists use Avid solutions to create, distribute and monetize the most prestigious and award-winning films, videos, music recordings, TV shows, live concerts and news broadcasts.
"The Avid team is delighted to be joining Boca Raton's long heritage of innovation that began as the site where the first IBM personal computer was developed and continues strong today," said John Frederick, executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief administrative officer of Avid. "Establishing this hub for our critical administrative functions in Boca Raton gives Avid access to one of the top growing talent pools in the U.S. and serves as a gateway location to our Latin American customers. We look forward to contributing to the Palm Beach County job economy with this expansion and becoming part of the community."
Florida ranks second in the nation for tech job growth and third for high-tech establishments. In addition, the state's software and computer systems design and integration industry is one of the largest in the U.S., with nearly 12,600 firms. Nearly half of the 80,000 professionals who work in the field are employed by software development firms, with the rest working in related technology-intensive industries throughout the state.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president and CEO said, "We are happy to welcome Avid to Florida's robust IT sector and look forward to their growth. Thanks to Governor Scott's pro-business policies, Florida is truly the number one place for businesses to grow and we thank Avid for their commitment to the state."
The project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, the City of Boca Raton and the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Like the state as a whole, Palm Beach County is having an incredible economic resurgence. The expansion of Avid Technology is another example of how Governor Scott's pro-growth policies lead to jobs for local families."
BDB President & CEO Kelly Smallridge stated, "Every month, more and more companies are choosing Palm Beach County to build their businesses. Avid's decision to expand into Boca Raton is a huge win and they will have a significant impact on the area."
Boca Raton Mayor Susan Haynie explained, "Avid will be a great addition to the expanding technology cluster that has developed in Boca Raton. We're pleased that they have decided to become part of our community, and we are looking forward to working with them."
***
About Avid: Through Avid Everywhere™, Avid delivers the industry's most open, innovative and comprehensive media platform connecting content creation with collaboration, asset protection, distribution and consumption for the most listened to, most watched and most loved media in the world--from the most prestigious and award-winning feature films, music recordings, and television shows, to live concerts and news broadcasts. Industry leading solutions include Pro Tools®, Media Composer®, ISIS®, Interplay®, and Sibelius®. For more information about Avid solutions and services, visit www.Avid.com, connect with Avid on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, LinkedIn, or subscribe to Avid Blogs.
Enterprise Florida, Inc. (EFI) is a partnership between Florida's businesses and government leaders and is the principal economic development organization for Florida. EFI facilitates job growth for Florida businesses through recruitment and retention, international trade and exporting, promotion of sporting events, and capital funding programs to assist small and minority businesses.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/07/06/gov-scott-announces-avid-technology-expansion-to-create-100-jobs-in-boca-raton/
