Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces More Than $900,000 in Defense Grants for Northwest Florida
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 30, 2015
Location: Pensacola, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced more than $900,000 in defense grants for Northwest Florida. This includes:
* Escambia County was awarded $170,000 through Florida's Defense Reinvestment and Infrastructure Grant Programs.
* Okaloosa County was awarded $300,000 through Florida's Defense Reinvestment and Infrastructure Grant Programs.
* Santa Rosa County was awarded $360,000 through Florida's Defense Reinvestment and Infrastructure Grant Programs and $41,310 through the Florida Defense Support Task Force.
* Walton County was awarded $38,000 through Florida's Defense Reinvestment Grant Program.
Governor Scott said, "We want Florida to be the most military-friendly state in the country, and these important investments helps us accomplish that goal. These grants will continue to ensure Northwest Florida has all the necessary tools to support our military and create more jobs for Florida."
"The Florida Defense Grants Programs are vital for our military and defense industry, and strengthen Florida's workforce through the highly skilled former military personnel who enter the employment market each year. I am proud to play a part in supporting our military installations and communities, and appreciate what our service men and women do to protect our state," said Bill Johnson, President & CEO of Enterprise Florida.
ESCAMBIA COUNTY
The $70,000 Defense Reinvestment Grant will be used to support Naval Air Station Pensacola and to sustain the defense industry's $6.7 billion economic impact in Escambia County. The $100,000 Defense Infrastructure Grant will work to protect Naval Air Station Pensacola from incompatible land use.
OKALOOSA COUNTY
The $100,000 Defense Reinvestment Grant will be used to support Eglin Air Force Base and Hurlburt Field and to sustain the defense industry's $7.5 billion economic impact in Okaloosa County. The $200,000 Defense Infrastructure Grant will work to protect the military bases from incompatible land use, which preserves missions and protects citizens.
SANTA ROSA COUNTY
The $60,000 Defense Reinvestment Grant will be used to support Naval Air Station Whiting Field. This effort will work to sustain the defense industry's $1.1 billion economic impact in Santa Rosa County. The $300,000 Defense Infrastructure Grant will work to protect prevent incompatible land use around Naval Air Station Whiting Field. The grant provided by the Florida Defense Support Task Force will be used to prepare an updated prioritized land acquisition study and complete a phased plan to limit encroachment at Naval Air Station Whiting Field. Additionally, outreach will be conducted to better inform affected property owners thereby protecting the local economy and the more than 14,000 jobs that the defense industry supports in this region.
WALTON COUNTY
The $38,000 Defense Reinvestment Grant will be used to support Eglin Air Force Base.
Senator Don Gaetz said, "Northwest Florida's bases and missions are critical to our quality of life and security and we must ensure that they are protected. These grants will allow us to make our community more military-friendly and help provide our military installations with the protection they deserve."
Senator Greg Evers said, "Escambia County appreciates being awarded these Defense Infrastructure and Reinvestment Grants, and the protection and improvements they will provide. Santa Rosa County is also grateful for the funding we have been awarded through the Florida Defense Support Task Force Grants Program. I thank Governor Scott and the Legislature for funding these grants and preserving this vital economic asset."
Representative Clay Ingram said, "We are fortunate to have a robust military sector in Florida, creating thousands of jobs for Escambia County and billions in economic impact. The Defense Grants help support our military families and community, and I thank the Governor and Legislature for continuing to fund these important programs."
Representative Mike Hill said, "Naval Air Station Whiting Field is a vital national military asset as well as an important economic driver in Santa Rosa County. We are pleased that Governor Scott and my colleagues in the Legislature recognize its importance and have awarded two Florida Defense Grants to our community to support the installation."
Representative Matt Gaetz said, "Support for the military is vital to Okaloosa County as it is home of the largest military base in the world, Eglin Air Force Base, as well as Hurlburt Field. I appreciate Governor Scott and the Legislature's support through the awarding of the Defense Reinvestment and Defense Infrastructure Grants."
Representative Doug Broxson said, "Northwest Florida's military installations are critical to our state and to our nation. The grants awarded to Okaloosa County will strengthen the local economy and provide stronger collaboration opportunities between the county and the military bases."
"The Bay Defense Alliance appreciates the support from Governor Scott, Enterprise Florida and the Legislature. The Defense Reinvestment and Infrastructure grants provide vital assistance as we work to strengthen the missions and enhance the military value of our installations," said Tom Neubauer, President, Bay Defense Alliance.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/30/governor-scott-announces-more-than-900000-in-defense-grants-for-northwest-florida/
