Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces More Than #3 Million for Florida Defense Communities
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 30, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that 13 counties were awarded $2,450,000 through Florida's Defense Infrastructure and Reinvestment Grant Programs. The funding will support community projects at 19 Florida military installations. Governor Scott also announced that defense partners in four counties were awarded more than $700,000 through the Florida Defense Support Task Force Grant Program. This funding will support four projects to strengthen Florida's bases ahead of any potential Department of Defense realignment or closure actions, thereby protecting more than $73.4 billion in economic impact, and more than 758,000 jobs that the defense industry supports in the state. These grants are administered by Enterprise Florida, Inc.
Governor Scott said, "As we prepare to celebrate Independence Day, we are proud to announce more support for Florida's military communities. Our thriving military installations and the economic investments they provide our local communities help make Florida the most military-friendly state in the nation. As a Navy veteran, I am proud to announce the combined funding from the Defense Infrastructure and Reinvestment Grant Programs, and the Defense Support Task Force Grant Program will provide more than $3 million of support for defense communities across the state. We are committed to continuing to make important investments to support the brave servicemen and women, veterans and military families who selflessly serve our country."
The 2015-16 Defense Grants were awarded to defense partners in the following counties: Polk, Brevard, Duval, Santa Rosa, Okaloosa, Clay, Pinellas, Escambia, Orange, Bay, Miami-Dade, Hillsborough and Walton. The grants are awarded annually through a competitive process to communities hosting military installations.
Florida Senate President Andy Gardiner said, "I want to congratulate the military assets across Florida for receiving these important grants. The Defense Reinvestment Grants demonstrate Governor Scott and the Legislature's continued commitment to Florida's active and retired military personnel, as well as the communities they protect."

Source:
