Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces More Than $155,000 in Defense Grants for Central Florida
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 30, 2015
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced more than $155,000 in defense grants for Central Florida. This includes:
* The Economic Development Commission of Florida's Space Coast in Brevard County was awarded $75,000 through Florida's Defense Reinvestment Grant Program.
* Orange County was awarded $83,000 through Florida's Defense Reinvestment Grant Program.
Governor Scott said, "We are proud to award these grants to Brevard and Orange Counties, which will keep making Florida the best state for our military and veterans. As a Navy veteran, I understand the importance of these defense grants, and we will continue to do all we can for service members, their families and veterans."
Brevard and Orange Counties were two of eleven counties to receive a Defense Reinvestment Grant, which is designed to support relationships between military installations and their community. The $75,000 grant for Brevard County will be used to support Patrick Air Force Base, Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, and Naval Ordnance Test Unit. This effort will work to sustain defense industry's $4.1 billion economic impact in Brevard County.
The $83,000 grant for Orange County will be used to support Naval Support Activity Orlando, and will work to sustain the defense industry's $6 billion economic impact in the county.
Florida Senate President Andy Gardiner said, "I want to congratulate the military assets in Orange and Brevard County for receiving these important grants. The Defense Reinvestment Grants demonstrate Governor Scott and the Legislature's continued commitment to Florida's active and retired military personnel, as well as the communities they protect."
Florida House Speaker Steve Crisafulli said, "I am grateful for the funding that has been awarded to Orange and Brevard Counties through the Defense Reinvestment Grant program. These grants provide critical support that allows these installations to continue their growth."
Representative Ritch Workman, Defense Support Task Force Chairman, said, "The Defense Support Task Force grants are vital as Florida continues pave the way as the most military friendly state in the nation. Service men and women work hard to protect our state and our investment in their communities is an important way to show our appreciation for their tireless work."
Senator Thad Altman said, "The value of grants like these Defense Reinvestment Grants cannot be overstated. I'm thankful to Governor Scott and the State for again including our community in this year's awards. Brevard County, and our installations, need this funding to continue the important work being done here."
Senator Alan Hays said, "Orange County is grateful for receiving a Defense Reinvestment Grant to support our local military installations. Our nation's heroes deserve the best and I am proud of the Governor and Legislature for providing this grant to our community."
Senator Kelli Stargel said, "By funding the Defense Grants Program, Florida is giving back to those who bravely serve our nation each day. I have two daughters serving in our military so I appreciate this grant, which will help us support the military community and grow the Orange County economy."
Representative Jennifer Sullivan said, "Naval Support Activity Orlando is home to a multi-service modeling, simulation, training and acquisition center that accounts for billions in economic impact in Orange County. I am grateful for the Governor and Legislature's continued support for our community and our brave military members."
Representative John Tobia said, "The military presence in Brevard County is very important not only for our protection and safety, but also for our economy. This grant will allow us to protect and expand operations in our community, and I appreciate the work of Governor Scott and my fellow legislators to continue funding this program."
Representative Tom Goodson said, "My thanks to Governor Scott and the Legislature for their continued support of Florida's military operations, and especially for awarding this grant to Brevard County and the 45th Space Wing, Naval Ordnance Test Unit, and Coast Guard Station Cape Canaveral. The operations and jobs they support are vital to our families and community."
Lynda Weatherman, President & CEO of the Space Coast EDC, said, "We are privileged that Enterprise Florida recognizes the importance of our program of work which directly supports our military installations. This grant will ensure our local leaders remain the conduit between the Air Force, the Department of Defense and the community; all of which support the military's footprint in Brevard County."
"The Florida Defense Grants Programs are vital for our military and defense industry, and strengthen Florida's workforce through the highly skilled former military personnel who enter the employment market each year. I am proud to play a part in supporting our military installations and communities, and appreciate what our service men and women do to protect our state," said Bill Johnson, President & CEO of Enterprise Florida.
For more than 15 years the defense grants have been successful tools in assisting local defense partners in supporting the State's military installations. Florida's military and defense sector is responsible for 9.4 percent -- or $73.4 billion -- of the Sunshine State's economy. This translates to more than 758,000 statewide direct and indirect jobs.
A combined $2,450,000 was awarded to 13 communities in the state, helping to protect and improve 19 installations, and furthering Florida's reputation as the most military friendly state in the nation.
The 2015-16 Defense Grants were awarded to defense partners in the following counties: Polk, Brevard, Duval, Santa Rosa, Okaloosa, Clay, Pinellas, Escambia, Orange, Bay, Miami-Dade, Hillsborough and Walton.
The Florida Defense Grants Programs are administered by Enterprise Florida, Inc. The grants are awarded annually through a competitive process to communities hosting military installations.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/30/governor-scott-announces-more-than-155000-in-defense-grants-for-central-florida/
