Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announces More Than $1 Million in Defense Grants for Northeast Florida
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 30, 2015
Location: Jacksonville, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced more than $1 million in defense grants for Northeast Florida. This includes:
* Clay County was awarded $160,000 through Florida's Defense Reinvestment and Infrastructure Grant Programs and $400,000 through the Florida Defense Support Task Force.
* Jacksonville was awarded $464,000 through Florida's Defense Reinvestment and Infrastructure Grant Programs.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We are proud to award these defense grants to Northeast Florida. Through these grants, Clay and Duval Counties will be able to keep working and put Florida on a path to be the most military-friendly state in the country."
President & CEO of Enterprise Florida, Bill Johnson said, "The grants are a vital investment into our military and defense programs, and the local economies that rely on the operation of those facilities. Through these grants, military communities around the state are able to improve working environments for Florida's service men and women. Florida's military and defense sector is one of the strongest in the country because of the Florida Defense Task Force's commitment to preserve and protect our military installations."
Clay and Duval Counties were two of eleven counties to receive a Defense Reinvestment Grant, which is designed to support relationships between military installations and their community. The $70,000 grant in Clay County will be used to support Camp Blanding Joint Training Center and to sustain the defense industry's $499.5 million economic impact in Clay County. The $90,000 Defense Infrastructure Grant will fund a utility infrastructure upgrade that will improve the security and access at Camp Blanding Joint Training Center.
This $89,000 grant in Duval County will be used to support Naval Station Mayport, Naval Air Station Jacksonville, Marine Corp Support Facility Blount Island Command, and Jacksonville Air National Guard and work to sustain the defense industry's $11.9 billion economic impact in Duval County
The Clay County grant provided by the Florida Defense Support Task Force will be used to acquire 420 acres of land adjacent to Camp Blanding to buffer from incompatible development and prevent encroachment. This project will help protect more than $500 million in economic impact, and more than 7,000 jobs that the defense industry supports in this region.
Representative Travis Cummings said, "Governor Scott and the Legislature know the importance of supporting our military families and I applaud them for awarding these grants to our community. We rely on Camp Blanding for jobs and economic impact, and this grant will help protect those assets."
Representative Charles Van Zant said, "Clay County is very appreciative to again receive two Defense Grants for the Camp Blanding Joint Training Center. The funding will support base infrastructure and strategic plans, and will help protect the base and surrounding community."
Representative Janet Adkins said, "Jacksonville's military installations are vital to our region in so many ways, from defending our citizens to billions in economic impact. These funds are critical to keeping bases like Naval Station Mayport and Naval Air Station Jacksonville in our communities. As a daughter of a Navy Veteran, I understand the importance of the reinvestment in the infrastructure of our National defense and I thank Governor Scott for this continued funding."
Representative Jay Fant said, "The Defense Infrastructure Grant awarded today significantly impacts Jacksonville for the better. NAS Jacksonville and NAS Mayport benefit, boosting the economy of Northeast Florida. I commend Governor Scott and the Legislature for their efforts."
Representative Lake Ray said, "I commend the Governor and Legislature for awarding these grants to Duval County. This funding will allow for much-needed services and infrastructure, and help protect the families and jobs dependent on these installations."
"In accordance with our principal purpose of promoting sound economic development of Clay County, the Clay County Development Authority is pleased to receive this grant that will strengthen the strategic partnership with Camp Blanding Joint Training Center (CBJTC) to improve the quality of life for our citizens by securing a buffer from future development and encroachment thus protecting the installation that comprises almost one fifth of the county and is tied to its economic viability," said Clay County Development Authority Chair Chip Dobson.
The Florida Defense Support Task Force grants are awarded to local community organizations which support Florida military installations. These grants will be utilized to protect, preserve and enhance Florida's military missions and installations while maintaining Florida's reputation as the most military friendly state in the nation. Additionally, these grants will strengthen Florida's bases ahead of any potential Department of Defense realignment or closure actions, thereby protecting more than $73.4 billion in economic impact, and more than 758,100 jobs that the defense industry supports in the state.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/30/governor-rick-scott-announces-more-than-1-million-in-defense-grants-for-northeast-florida/
