Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Awards Panama City Business with Governor's Business Ambassador Award
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 23, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott recognized Buddy Black, President of Nova Technologies, with the Governor's Business Ambassador Award. The Governor's Business Ambassador Award is given to individuals and business in recognition of their efforts to create jobs and opportunities for Florida families.
Governor Scott said, "Great companies like Nova Technologies are helping to make Florida the number one destination for business, and I am proud to present them with the Governor's Business Ambassador Award. In four and a half years, Florida has added more than 879,000 private sector jobs, which means more opportunities for Florida families to get a great job. Florida is proud that companies like Nova Technologies call our great state home."
Nova Technologies is a Service-Disabled, Veteran-Owned, small business that focuses on software and systems engineering as well as national security services. The company was founded in 1997 and is an industry leader in providing for training Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps service members worldwide. Nova Technologies also provides low-cost, quality solutions to companies such as Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman, L-3 Communications, SAIC, DEI and Rockwell Collins. Currently, they have 17 facilities throughout the United States and over 140 employees. They recently announced a partnership with another Florida-based technology company that will create 700 new, high paying jobs.
Buddy Black, President of Nova Technologies, said, "I am honored to accept the Governor's Business Ambassador Award on behalf of our hard-working team at Nova Technologies. It is an exciting time to have a business in Florida, and we are partnering with more companies everyday to provide new jobs for Floridians. I appreciate Governor Scott's work to ensure Florida remains a business-friendly state that helps companies like Nova Technologies succeed."

Source:
