Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Hercules Fluid Power Group to Open Manufacturing and Distribution Center in Hillsborough County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 16, 2015
Location: Tampa, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Hercules Fluid Power Group (HFPG) will open a new manufacturing and distribution center in Hillsborough County creating 50 new jobs for Tampa families with a $1 million capital investment. HFPG is an international distributor of hydraulic and pneumatic seals, seal kits and cylinders for all heavy equipment brands.
Governor Scott said, "Florida continues to be a top destination for companies looking to expand or locate their manufacturing business. More than 865,000 new jobs have been created in Florida since December 2010 and Hercules Fluid Power Group's decision to open a manufacturing and distribution center in Florida is more proof of our state's positive business climate and outstanding infrastructure."
Russ Brown, President of HFPG, said, "HFPG is a dynamic, growing group of companies. Our most recent need to support our continued business expansion led us to consider a number of locations for our new facility. HFPG has proudly selected Tampa. This move allows us to take advantage of Tampa's strong talent pool and cost -- effective environment to continue to build the company into the industry leading provider of Fluid Power seals for Mobile Heavy Equipment and industrial applications. HFPG would like to thank Enterprise Florida, The Florida Department of Economic Opportunity and Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation for their assistance and commitment to supporting local business development."
Founded in 1962 and headquartered in Clearwater, HFPG has 385 employees in the United States and Canada. In addition to its Florida facilities, the company has distribution centers in six other states. The new manufacturing and distribution center in Tampa will occupy 35,000 square feet of leased space. HFPG is investing approximately $1 million in building improvements, new equipment and office furniture.
Florida's advanced manufacturing industries are diverse and include sectors producing intermediate and finished products ranging from plastics to machinery and motor vehicles. In total, Florida is home to more than 18,200 manufacturers employing some 317,000 workers.
"We're very pleased to welcome HFPG to Hillsborough County," said the Hon. Sandra Murman, Chair of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners. "We've worked hard to develop our distribution, manufacturing and logistics sectors by offering competitive workforce support and business assistance packages that put companies locating here on a fast track for growth. This strategy is clearly working. We look forward to supporting HFPG's success and thank them for bringing more jobs and investment to our community."
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president and CEO said, "Florida is a global economic hub so it's no surprise when companies like HFPG choose Florida as home for their next manufacturing and distribution center. Florida wisely continues to invest in infrastructure making our state even more irresistible to companies who seek to increase their international footprint. I congratulate HFPG on their announcement and look forward to watching them continue to grow here in Florida."
The project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, Hillsborough County and the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation.
Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "With the expansion of Hercules Fluid Power Group, Tampa's economy continues its strong growth. Manufacturing is a critically important industry, and the Scott administration is committed to policies that foster its growth."
"HFPG already has distribution centers in at least two other states that competed for this project," said Dr. Ronald Vaughn, Chair of the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation and President of the University of Tampa. "But those states simply couldn't beat what Hillsborough County offered in terms of quality and availability of the talent and an ideal location for expanding service to their customers in the southeastern U.S., Europe, and other international destinations. Hillsborough County's reputation as a destination for distribution, logistics, and manufacturing operations is on the rise."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/16/gov-scott-hercules-fluid-power-group-to-open-manufacturing-and-distribution-center-in-hillsborough-county/
