Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Opens Florida Pavilion at 2015 Paris Air Show
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 15, 2015
Location: Paris, France

Today, Governor Rick Scott led the inauguration ceremony for the Florida Pavilion at the 2015 International Paris Air Show. Governor Scott led a delegation of 17 Florida aviation and aerospace, and defense and homeland security small businesses, and economic development leaders at the Paris Air Show. This year, the Florida Pavilion is once again the largest of any state, showcasing companies that demonstrate the innovation and expertise that makes Florida an international business leader.
Governor Scott said, "Florida is the best state in the nation for business. We are here to meet with leading global aviation and aerospace companies so they know we're serious about providing the best business climate in the nation in Florida. We have created more than 865,000 private sector jobs in four and a half years and the state economy continues to strengthen. In fact, more than 40 aviation and aerospace and defense and homeland security competitive job creation projects have been established in our state since our business development mission to the Paris Air Show in 2013. The aviation industry is key to Florida's success and we know our time here will result in more jobs for Floridians."
The Paris Air Show provides Enterprise Florida and the small businesses and organizations exhibiting in the Florida Pavilion with a unique opportunity to demonstrate their competitive advantages in the aviation and aerospace industry. Governor Scott, EFI president & CEO Bill Johnson and EFI leadership are also hosting business development meetings with nearly 40 industry leading companies to share Florida's business story with key industry leaders.
"We're here to tell the Florida business story to every company we can meet with and to help the companies and organizations that have travelled with us to have a very successful show," said EFI president & CEO of EFI, Bill Johnson. "Governor Scott is here and Florida again has the largest contingent of any U.S. state. Companies see that sort of commitment and they are compelled to take a look at Florida for their next job creation or expansion project. It also allows the small businesses and organizations here to increase their exposure and get the most out of their time at the show. Opportunities like this are critical to our efforts and we look forward to a great show."
Since Governor Scott's last business development mission to the Paris Air Show in 2013, more than 40 aviation & aerospace and defense & homeland security competitive job creation projects have been established in Florida. As a result of these projects, more than 7,600 jobs and $1 billion in capital investments will be created in the state.
During the 2013 mission, Governor Scott announced a number of significant projects for the state including: Embry Riddle Aeronautical University's partnership with Diamond Aircraft Industries to establish the company's manufacturing presence at the Daytona Beach campus; Vision Systems, a Lyon, France-based tier one supplier for the aeronautics, marine and, automotive industries, will open its first-ever U.S. subsidiary on the Space Coast; and ATR North America's will relocate its American headquarters to Miami Springs.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/15/governor-rick-scott-opens-florida-pavilion-at-2015-paris-air-show/
