Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces From Paris Lockheed Martin to Add 130 Jobs at Cape Canaveral
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 15, 2015
Location: Paris, France

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced at the 51st International Paris Airshow that Lockheed Martin will be expanding its Cape Canaveral facility to create 130 new jobs. The new positions will support the U.S. Navy's Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile program.
Governor Scott said, "We are thrilled to be at the Paris Air Show to announce new jobs at Lockheed Martin. These 130 new jobs mean Florida families will have even more opportunity to get a great job. More than 865,000 new private-sector jobs have been added statewide in the last four and a half years and we're here in Paris to make sure aerospace and defense companies from around the world know Florida is the best state in the U.S. for job creation."
As the Navy's strategic missile prime contractor, Lockheed Martin currently employs more than 500 people at Cape Canaveral to support the nation's submarine-based strategic deterrent.
"Governor Scott, the State of Florida and the Space Coast Economic Development Commission have provided tremendous support for bringing these jobs to Brevard County," said Mathew Joyce, vice president of Fleet Ballistic Missile programs, Lockheed Martin Space Systems. "Ramping up our operations at Cape Canaveral maintains cost effective support of the program and further improves our responsiveness to the missile testing and deployment needs of U.S. Navy Strategic Systems Programs."
Florida is home to one of the nation's largest defense and homeland security industries, and few states can match the scale and scope of its network of major contractors and suppliers. From simulation and training to encryption technologies, Florida companies are at the leading edge of all major military and government markets.
"Lockheed Martin employs more than 12,000 Floridians throughout the state and we thank them for their continued commitment to the state," said Bill Johnson, president & CEO of Enterprise Florida. "Florida has one of the most highly skilled defense and homeland security workforces in the nation, as well as a top-ranked infrastructure and pro-business climate. We will continue sharing Florida's business story with industry leaders from around the world at this year's Paris Air Show."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Lockheed Martin's continued growth in Florida reflects the state's commitment to the defense and aerospace industries. These new jobs on the Cape are great news for the local economy."
"A leader in the global security and aerospace industry, Lockheed Martin's ongoing expansion in Florida is a testament to the strength of our workforce and business climate," said CareerSource Florida President and CEO Chris Hart IV. "These 130 new high-skill, high-wage positions will significantly impact the community as well as benefit the Floridians who will embark on a career with Lockheed Martin."
Lynda Weatherman, president and CEO of the EDC stated, "Lockheed Martin could have chosen to expand in any one of its major sites. The decision to expand their footprint in Brevard County is a win for our community. The additional 130 jobs, paying an average wage of $85k will impact our entire community."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/15/governor-scott-announces-from-paris-lockheed-martin-to-add-130-jobs-at-cape-canaveral/
