Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces From Paris That Embraer Will Add 150 Jobs in Brevard County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 15, 2015
Location: Paris, France

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced at the 51st International Paris Airshow that Embraer will expand operations in Brevard County, creating 150 jobs and investing $3.5 million in a new Embraer Aero Seating Technologies manufacturing facility.
Governor Scott said, "Embraer's footprint in Florida continues to grow and we are excited to announce this additional investment and creation of new jobs in our state. By removing the sales tax on manufacturing equipment last year, we are signaling to businesses across the world that Florida has a competitive advantage over other locations, and companies like Embraer know that our state is the best place to grow and create jobs. We are here in Paris today to share our success with companies from across the world, and we will continue to do all we can to make Florida the global destination for jobs."
"Our partnership with the state of Florida has been fundamental to our ability to serve the customers in our largest market," said Embraer's president and CEO, Frederico Curado. "We are proud to further that legacy with the addition of Embraer Aero Seating Technologies, a company dedicated to the design, development and production of luxury aircraft seating solutions."
Embraer recently completed the progressive acquisition of an ownership stake in Embraer Aero Seating Technologies. The new facility will allow the company to expand its production of seating solutions for various Embraer products.
Embraer's presence in Florida has expanded greatly in the last year. In September 2014, the company opened its Engineering and Technology Center in Melbourne. The $24.2 million Center will house 200 research and engineering professionals. One month later, the company broke ground on its new assembly facility where their Legacy 450 and 500 planes will be manufactured. The project will add 600 jobs and a capital investment of $15 million in the region.
Florida is home to more than 2,000 aerospace and aviation companies employing more than 87,000 skilled workers. Florida is a major hub for flight training; a leader in maintenance repair and overhaul (MRO) operations; and home to leading manufacturers of all types of aircraft and components. Florida's manufacturing sector has nearly 18,200 companies that employ more than 317,000 Floridians.
President & CEO of Enterprise Florida, Inc. Bill Johnson said, "Embraer's continued commitment to Florida is incredibly important and we thank them for being a tremendous partner and job creator. This latest expansion helps us better tell Florida's business story not only at home, but particularly this week at an important event like the Paris Air Show. Embraer's success and growth helps us tout Florida's position as global leader in aviation."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said,
"Embraer's continued growth in Brevard County is further evidence that Florida is a top destination for the aerospace and manufacturing industries. The Scott Administration will continue to support the pro-growth, low-tax policies that foster these kinds of business expansions."
Brevard County District 1 Commissioner Robin Fisher said. "We are very pleased that Embraer chose to locate this facility in North Brevard and within the county-owned Spaceport Commerce Park in Titusville specifically. Through the combined efforts of the county's Economic Development Commission, the North Brevard Economic Development Zone, the County Commission and the City of Titusville to establish this Embraer expansion, we now look forward to the creation of good-paying jobs for the area."
Lynda Weatherman, president & CEO of the EDC commented, "The EDC and the NBDEZ worked together to provide a competitive package for this important Embraer job creation project. With the additional resources available through the NBEDZ, we were able to bring this opportunity into fruition."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/15/governor-scott-announces-from-paris-that-embraer-will-add-150-jobs-in-brevard-county/
