Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces From Paris Air Show That Aerospace Precision is Moving Operations to Florida From California
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 15, 2015
Location: Paris, France

Today, at the 51st Annual Paris Airshow, Governor Rick Scott announced that Aerospace Precision, an FAA/EASA repair facility with operations in Hollywood, Florida has completed their acquisition of Luchner Tool Engineering. With this acquisition, Aerospace Precision is moving Luchner's aircraft maintenance tooling, engine tool and GSE manufacturing operations from San Diego, California to Hollywood, Florida, creating up to 25 new jobs in the Sunshine State. Aerospace Precision currently has 40 employees at their Hollywood location.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We are excited to celebrate Aerospace Precision's growth in Florida and the new jobs they are creating for our families. In April, we traveled to California to tell business leaders and companies why Florida is the best state for them to do business. I am pleased that Aerospace Precision decided to re-locate more of their operations from high-tax California to business-friendly Florida and we look forward to their continued growth in our state."
Pierre Pinsonnault, President of Aerospace Precision, Inc. said, "We are very excited to announce our expansion in Florida and move a company from San Diego into our operations in Florida. Florida is a great state for our aviation manufacturing business to grow, and we applaud the work of Governor Scott to make Florida a destination where companies like mine can succeed."
"Aerospace Precision has been exhibiting at international trade shows with EFI for nearly five years," said EFI president and CEO Bill Johnson. "We congratulate them on this acquisition and growth, and look forward to seeing their expanded presence at upcoming events."
AEROSPACE PRECISION, is a leading, worldwide authorized OEM repair and manufacturing facility, offering FAA and EASA certification. We provide component repair and overhaul services for accessories, hydraulics, electro-mechanical, and pneumatic systems, including wheels and brakes for Boeing, Airbus, Embraer, Bombardier and regional aircraft. Luchner Tool Engineering provides aircraft and engine tooling and ground support equipment for OEM's, airline and military operators worldwide. The capabilities include Pratt & Whitney, IAE, RSE, HIX, General Electric, CFM and built to print tools for Airbus & Boeing aircraft to customer specifications.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/15/governor-scott-announces-from-paris-air-show-that-aerospace-precision-is-moving-operations-to-florida-from-california/
