Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces From Paris Air Show That GA Telesis Will Expand in Florida
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 15, 2015
Location: Paris, France

Following a meeting at the 51st Annual Paris Air Show, Governor Rick Scott today announced that GA Telesis, one of the world's largest commercial aerospace firms, is relocating one of their USA-based distribution centers to Miami, Florida, next month. This follows the recent move of one of their aerostructure business units, GA Telesis Composite Repair Group, from Arizona to Ft. Lauderdale. This additional relocation will result in over 55 new Florida jobs. Since 2011, GA Telesis has created 80 new jobs for Florida families, and the company expects to add 150 new jobs in Florida by 2020.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We are proud to have GA Telesis move more of their operations to Florida. I am excited to announce that they have relocated over 55 jobs from Arizona. Florida is the best destination for aerospace and aviation companies to succeed, and we look forward to recruiting more companies like GA Telesis to Florida."
President and CEO of GA Telesis Abdol Moabery said, "We appreciate the low tax, business friendly policies enacted by Governor Scott that have helped our company significantly grow over the past four years, and we expect to create an additional 150 new Florida jobs in the next five years. When it came to relocating our distribution and maintenance facilities from Arizona, there was no question that Florida was the best place for those jobs. We look forward to continuing to grow in Florida and thank Governor Scott for his commitment to making Florida the best destination for aerospace and aviation companies like GA Telesis."
"Companies like GA Telesis are expanding and helping to grow Florida's strong aviation and aerospace industry," said EFI president and CEO Bill Johnson. "We are glad to announce this great job growth news at the Paris Air Show and will continue working to help companies like this grow across the state."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/15/governor-scott-announces-from-paris-air-show-that-ga-telesis-will-expand-in-florida/
