Public Statements
Gov. Scott Highlights Job Growth at Bright Future Electric in Orlando
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 11, 2015
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted job creation at Bright Future Electric, a full service electrical contractor with three locations in Florida. Bright Future Electric has created more than 300 jobs for Florida families statewide, including 160 new jobs since 2011. During the visit, Governor Scott announced that Bright Future Electric will be expanding to create 30 new jobs in Orlando.
Governor Scott said, "We are excited to announce Bright Future Electric's upcoming expansion and the creation of 30 new jobs in Orlando today. Bright Future Electric has already created more than 300 Florida jobs, and it is clear that businesses are succeeding in our state, which means more jobs for our families. By working every day to make Florida the global destination for jobs, we are creating an environment that will help families in Florida live the American Dream for generations to come."
Bright Future Electric, LLC was founded in Orlando in 2006, with one branch located in the greater Orlando area to service Central Florida and one in Birmingham to service North Central Alabama. Today, Bright Future Electric is a full service electrical contractor serving clients throughout the Southeast, which additional locations in Destin and Sarasota. They employ more than 400 professionals and maintain a fleet of over 70 trucks, vans, and specialty equipment to service clients that include theme parks, restaurants, businesses and families.
Allen McCain, Bright Future Electric's President, said, "Bright Future Electric is proud to be growing and creating new opportunities for our fellow Floridians, and we look forward to welcoming 30 new employees to our great team. We are also proud of our commitment to caring for our employees and their families, and all of those we service in our communities, with honesty and integrity. On behalf of the whole Bright Future Electric team, I am grateful to Governor Scott for his continued support and for recognizing our exciting success during his visit today."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/11/gov-scott-highlights-job-growth-at-bright-future-electric-in-orlando/
