Public Statements
Gov. Scott Highlights Job Growth at Apex Technology in Jacksonville
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 9, 2015
Location: Jacksonville, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted job creation at Apex Technology, a construction and engineering services company in Jacksonville. Apex Technology and its sister company, True Design Studios, along with its parent company Belit, have created 69 jobs across the state, and will create another 60 new jobs for Florida families.
Governor Scott said, "Florida businesses like Apex Technology are able to succeed and create opportunities for our families because we are working everyday to make Florida the most business-friendly state in the nation. I am excited today to highlight Apex Technology's recent success and their plans to create 60 new jobs in Jacksonville. Every new job is a chance for a Floridian to live the American Dream, and I look forward to seeing continued economic success in Jacksonville and across our state."
Apex Technology was founded in Jacksonville Beach to help builders navigate the building code changes brought on by the impact of Hurricane Andrew. Today, Apex Technology provides structural and mechanical engineering services for residential, mixed use and commercial construction projects, located throughout the Southeastern U.S., Mid-Atlantic Region and the Caribbean. Apex Technology has offices in Jacksonville, Tampa and Frederick, Maryland.
Barry Dixon, CEO of Apex Technology, Belit Inc. and True Design Studios, said, "On behalf of the whole Apex Technology team, I would like to thank Governor Scott for his visit today and for helping make Florida a great place to grow and serve our clients. We are always looking for passionate and motivated people to join the Apex Technology team and grow within our company, and we look forward to experiencing continued success in Florida."
Florida ranks among the top 10 states for manufacturing establishments. The state's growing manufacturing sector -- complete with advanced technology, a custom-trained workforce and strong support from the state's leaders -- helps businesses become even more competitive. Florida offers a cost-competitive environment, favorable overall tax structure, no personal income tax and superior quality of life, as well as targeted industry programs for qualified investments, job creation and other specialized objectives. With more than 321,000 Floridians working in manufacturing, companies can find the highly qualified talent needed to succeed.
Bill Johnson, president & CEO of Enterprise Florida, said, "The expansion of Apex Technology in the Jacksonville area is a great addition to Florida's manufacturing industry. Florida ranks among the top 10 states for manufacturing establishments, thanks to our strong workforce and low tax climate. Reducing taxes on companies encourages growth and, in turn, helps Florida expand its manufacturing base."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "The engineering and construction jobs that Apex Technologies is adding are part of a larger trend of job growth for the Jacksonville area. The Scott Administration's commitment to a business-friendly environment has helped companies like this expand and add jobs across the state."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/09/gov-scott-highlights-job-growth-at-apex-technology-in-jacksonville/
