Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces the Unveiling of the Heart Galleries Photo Exhibit for Florida Foster Children
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 5, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Scott announced the unveiling of the Florida Association of Heart Galleries exhibit featuring photographs that highlight children in foster care who desire to be part of a permanent, adoptive family. Since 2010, over 12,500 children have been adopted from Florida's foster care system and have found their "forever family."
Governor Rick Scott said, "It is important that we provide Florida's foster children with every opportunity to succeed in our state, and I am honored to highlight some of these children in the Florida Association of Heart Galleries this summer. Adoption gives Floridians an opportunity to expand their families and help children in need, and I encourage all Floridians to consider adopting the great children in foster care who are searching for their permanent families."
First Lady Ann Scott said, "Adoption not only affects the children but also the families they are adopted into. Every child in Florida deserves the love and support that comes from having a loving family, and I am thankful for every family that is willing to take that bold step and adopt a child in need."
The Heart Galleries exhibit is located on the Capitol's 22nd floor. Additional Heart Gallery photos are on display in the Governor's Office lobby, in the Governor's Office of Adoption and Child Protection on the 20th floor, and in state office buildings throughout Florida. The Heart Galleries photo exhibit is set to open on Monday, June 8, and will continue through August 31.
Florida Department of Children and Families Secretary Mike Carroll said, "Adoption is truly a gift for everyone involved and I encourage more Florida families to explore this beautiful option. Fifteen years ago my family adopted our son and in a few weeks I will help him move into his first apartment as he starts college. He has given me more than I could ever give him, and I could not imagine him not being a part of our family."
The Florida Association of Heart Galleries supports the state's 15 existing Heart Galleries who all play an important role in supporting Florida's Explore Adoption initiative. Thousands of children in Florida have found adoptive families through Heart Galleries, and Florida has the most Heart Galleries of any state.
"Heart Galleries play a crucial role in locating forever families for our children," said Matthew Straeb, president of the Florida Association of Heart Galleries and Heart Gallery of Sarasota. "Florida's success in increasing adoptions of children in foster care is connected to the efforts of Heart Galleries and their effective promotion of remarkable Florida children."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/05/governor-scott-announces-the-unveiling-of-the-heart-galleries-photo-exhibit-for-florida-foster-children/
