Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Kicks-Off The 2015 Hurricane Season By Urging Floridians To Be Prepared
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 1, 2015
Location: Haleah, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott visited the Jose F. Caragol Jr. Emergency Operations Center where he was joined by state and local emergency management officials to mark the beginning of the 2015 Atlantic hurricane season. The season, which extends from June 1 through November 30, represents the period when hurricanes are most likely to form in the Atlantic Ocean. Last year, Governor Scott's budget included $750,000 for the new emergency operations center which will help the surrounding area be better prepared for disasters.
Governor Scott said, "Our number one priority is keeping Florida families and our visitors safe. As we begin another hurricane season, every family, visitor, and businesses should take the time to make a plan in case of disaster. As our state continues to grow and welcome record numbers of tourists, we have to continue to focus on preparedness and ensuring everyone has the tools they need to remain out of harm's way."
Florida residents and visitors should develop a plan centered on self-sustainability for the first 72 hours following a disaster. FLGetAPlan.com is an interactive website for users to generate a survival plan tailored to the specific needs of their household or business. The website includes valuable information for individuals, families and businesses, taking into account those with special needs, persons with pets, and the elderly.
"With June 1st marking the start of hurricane season, we are very proud to unveil our new Emergency Operations Center," Mayor Carlos Hernandez states. "This important step not only ensures that our city continues day-to-day operations during an emergency, but it also ensures that the cities around us are taken care. The safety of our residents is critical during an emergency and this center provides an extra layer of protection."
"June 1st is a date you simply can't ignore if you live, work or vacation in Florida," said FDEM Director Bryan W. Koon. "Get a plan for keeping your family safe, and if advised to evacuate, follow the instructions of your local officials. Know when to evacuate, how to evacuate, and to where you will evacuate should the need arise. Even if storm surge isn't forecast in your area, you could be completely cut off for weeks if you are advised to leave and choose to stay instead."
"The Florida National Guard stands ready to protect the lives and property of Floridians should a storm impact us this year," said Maj. Gen. Michael Calhoun, Adjutant General of Florida. "Ensuring your family has an emergency plan including three days of supplies will position our Soldiers and Airmen to succeed in their missions to assist you."
Food and water are important elements of any disaster preparedness plan. Each person needs a minimum of one gallon of water per day, as well as a three-day supply of non-perishable food for the three to seven days following a disaster. Remember to choose non-perishable foods that do not require refrigeration, and that will not make you thirsty.
"Starting today, Floridians should take all necessary precautions to ensure the safety of their loved ones and pets during hurricane season," said State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong. "Residents and visitors are urged to develop emergency plans, identify locations of special needs shelters and to prepare emergency supply kits with first aid, medications and plenty of food and water."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/06/01/governor-rick-scott-kicks-off-the-2015-hurricane-season-by-urging-floridians-to-be-prepared/
