Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Florida's Crime Rate Hits 46-Year Low
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 14, 2017
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Florida's crime rate is now at a 46-year low. In 2016, there were 18,146 fewer crimes than in 2015, which is a 2.8 percent decrease. The crime rate has dropped 4.4 percent since 2015. This year, Governor Scott invested more than $4.9 billion in public safety in the Fighting for Florida's Future budget. This investment includes a pay increase to support Florida's sworn law enforcement officers, a comprehensive pay plan for correctional officers that will make Florida's prisons safer, re-entry program funding that will reduce recidivism and increased funding for prevention programs targeting at-risk youth.
Governor Rick Scott said, "In 2016, Florida's law enforcement was tested like never before. From the horrific terror attack at Pulse Nightclub to Hurricanes Hermine and Matthew, Florida's men and women in uniform have answered the call. I want to thank all of our law enforcement for putting their lives on the line to keep Florida's families safe. Our state's continuously decreasing crime rate is a reminder of the dedication and hard work Florida's law enforcement officers show every day."
Attorney General Pam Bondi said, "The continued decline in Florida's crime rate is a testament to the effective police work performed daily by our brave law enforcement officers and the great work of state prosecutors securing strong sentences for criminals. It is because of these officers and prosecutors that Florida remains a safe place to raise a family, start a business or take a vacation--and I cannot thank them enough for the risks they take to protect our state."
Chief Financial Officer Jeff Atwater said, "Law enforcement officers lay their lives on the line every day to protect us and our fellow Floridians, and I thank each of them for their courageous service. Decreasing crime trend lines demonstrate positive results, and we must continue to support their efforts to keep Florida safe."
Florida Commissioner of Agriculture Adam Putnam said, "Every day, law enforcement officers put on their uniform unsure of what challenges and threats they'll face, all for the sake of making our communities safe. And today's report is further evidence of the progress our state has made because of the dedication of our law enforcement officers who have selflessly answered the call to serve their fellow Floridians."
FDLE Commissioner Rick Swearingen said, "We continue to see a decrease in crime due to the outstanding efforts of law enforcement. Florida's 46-year crime low means we had 18,146 fewer crimes last year -- a trend we always welcome."
Florida Sheriffs Association President and Orange County Sheriff Jerry L. Demings said, "The continued reduction in crime, throughout the state of Florida, is a direct result of the efforts of law enforcement from the highest-ranking leadership to the patrol officers and deputies. The Florida Sheriffs will continue to make the safety and security of Floridians and visitors our top priority."
Florida Police Chiefs Association President and Coconut Creek Police Chief Butch Arenal said, "We are pleased to see these numbers continuing to improve to, but we also know there is always more work to be done. Our police officers put their lives on the line every single day protecting Floridians, and we are so very grateful for their commitment to our safety."
View the 2016 Annual Uniform Crime Report HERE.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2017/06/14/gov-scott-floridas-crime-rate-hits-46-year-low/
