Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces SATO GLOBAL SOLUTIONS Will Create 35 New Jobs in Broward County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 28, 2015
Location: Fort Lauderdale, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that SATO Holdings, a global leader in auto-ID solutions headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, has established its subsidiary, SATO Global Solutions (SGS), in Fort Lauderdale. The company is creating 35 jobs for local families and making a capital investment of more than $4 million.
Governor Scott said, "While SATO Global Solutions could have chosen any other state to expand their presence in America, they ultimately decided that Florida was the best place to grow and succeed. In 2013, I led an economic development mission to Japan and met with local business leaders to discuss business development opportunities for their companies to invest, grow and create jobs in Florida. Japan has been a great partner in our work to continue Florida's economic growth and we are excited to welcome another Japanese business to the Sunshine State."
The launch of SGS is part of SATO's growth plan to increase market presence in North America and accelerate its global delivery of integrated solutions that leverage Internet of Things (IOT) technologies. SATO's choice to locate in Fort Lauderdale is a strong testament to Florida's strategy of strengthening its competitive technology sector through the recruitment of companies in the targeted industry of technology. SGS has leased 14,000 square feet of space in the 110 Tower.
Michael Beedles, President of SGS and head of SATO's North American operations, said, "We are very excited to expand in Fort Lauderdale, taking advantage of South Florida's technology talent pool and contributing to competitiveness of businesses through our customized solutions. We look forward to serving businesses locally and globally, and contributing to the livelihood of the overall economy."
SATO Global Solutions develops custom products and services to meet their clients' unique requirements for data capture within businesses or across entire supply chains. SGS provides technology to tag, track, and link objects to IT systems by barcode, radio frequency identification (RFID), or wide variety of technology solutions.

Source:
