Public Statements
Gov. Scott Highlights Job Creation at Mission Foods in Lakeland
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 27, 2015
Location: Lakeland, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted job creation at Mission Foods, a leading manufacturer of tortillas and authentic Mexican food products. Mission Foods has created 150 jobs since opening their new manufacturing plant in Lakeland in 2012. The company has also invested more than $40 million in the Central Florida region.
Governor Scott said, "It's great to see another manufacturing company that has been able to grregow and thrive in Florida. The recent growth of Mission Foods means more opportunities for local families to find a great job and achieve their dreams in the Sunshine State. Since December 2010, Florida has created more than 865,000 new jobs, and we will keep working to make our state the global destination for jobs."
Mission Foods is a proud subsidiary of Gruma Corporation, which began in 1949. Since 1977, Mission Foods has been creating fresh, authentic Mexican food products available at grocery stores across the country.
Richard Schuh, Mission Food's Region Vice President said, "Mission Foods has experienced incredible success since first opening our plant here in Lakeland, and it is clear Florida was the best place to continue growing our company. As a national brand, we are proud of our commitment to local communities, and we know that our most important ingredient is the hard-working individuals that make us great. On behalf of the Mission Foods team, I am grateful to Governor Scott for his visit today and look forward to celebrating our future success in Florida."
Florida's advanced manufacturing industries are diverse and include sectors producing intermediate and finished products ranging from plastics to tortillas and motor vehicles. In total, Florida is home to more than 18,200 manufacturers employing some 317,000 workers.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president and CEO said, "Through Governor Scott's leadership, Florida continues to provide the perfect economic platform for nationally-recognized brands to succeed. The results of Mission Foods' success are felt statewide and today we celebrate their achievements in Lakeland."
This project was made possible by the close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Department of Economic Opportunity, City of Lakeland, Polk County and the Lakeland Economic Development Council.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Today's highlight of Mission Foods is further evidence of Florida's economic recovery. Because of this administration's commitment to an environment where businesses thrive, we are seeing job growth in the manufacturing industry and Florida is becoming the best place for these businesses to create more jobs."
"The LEDC was pleased when Mission Foods announced Lakeland for their tortilla and chip manufacturing facility," said Claudia Tritton, Business Development Director for the Lakeland Economic Development Council. "As a community whose strength is food & beverage manufacturing, Mission Foods joined the ranks of Publix, Pepperidge Farm, ButterKrust Bakery, Tampa Maid Foods, Whitlock Packaging, Brew Hub and many others. We are even happier that Governor Scott is here today to highlight job growth at Mission Foods, as they continue to expand and add lines, creating jobs in our community."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/05/27/gov-scott-highlights-job-creation-at-mission-foods-in-lakeland/
