Public Statements
Governor Scott Highlights Inspirata's Creation of 70 New Jobs In Tampa
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 18, 2015
Location: Tampa, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Inspirata, a cancer research software company, will create 70 new jobs in Tampa. The company is expected to generate up to 70 new jobs and capital investment of $25 million.
Governor Scott said, "We are happy to announce Inspirata's creation of 70 new jobs in Tampa. Jobs like these mean Floridians are able to build great careers and achieve their dreams in a field that is truly saving lives. Last year, we invested $80 million in our cancer research centers across the state, because we are committed finding a cure for this terrible disease. We will continue working to make Florida the number one destination for jobs by cutting taxes and investing in education ."
Inspirata's concept is "Solution-as-a-Service," which bundles everything needed to empower pathologists to accelerate diagnosis, increase diagnostic accuracy and provide therapeutic recommendations to improve patient outcomes.
"While we initially investigated other locations, Tampa really was our top choice when considering a location for Inspirata's corporate headquarters, especially given the fact that the State of Florida and Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation were so supportive in helping us locate here," said Inspirata Chairman and CEO Satish Sanan. "From a pure economic standpoint, Hillsborough County and the City of Tampa are great places to launch a company because they're so business friendly. Then, of course, there are all of the added benefits like being less than 15 minutes from one of the country's best international airports, and having access to high-quality graduates from the outstanding universities and colleges in the area. Finally, but not the least of our considerations, was the fact that the core group of employees joining Inspirata have all lived in the greater Tampa Bay area for many years. Since this is our home, we have a vested interest in seeing the area prosper economically."

Source:
