Public Statements
Gov. Scott Applauds Creation of 150 Jobs at LEGOLAND Hotel in Winter Haven
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 15, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott celebrated the grand opening of the new LEGOLAND Hotel at LEGOLAND Florida Resort. The resort's expansion will result in the creation of 150 new jobs for local families and will help attract more visitors to Central Florida. Governor Scott also announced earlier today that in the first quarter of 2015 (January-March), a record number of 28.4 million visitors came to Florida.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We are excited to celebrate the grand opening of the new LEGOLAND Hotel at the LEGOLAND Florida Resort today. Not only will this hotel encourage many more families to visit Florida, but it is also creating 150 new jobs for families in the Winter Haven area. Our tourism industry has provided more than one million Floridians with the opportunity to find a job and care for their families, and is keeping us on track to becoming the global destination for jobs."
Tourism is Florida's number one industry, and the state leads the nation in visitors annually. Attractions like the new LEGOLAND Hotel and LEGOLAND Florida Resort are helping Florida welcome a record number of visitors. In the first quarter of 2015, more than 28 million visitors came to the state, which is an increase of 6.2 percent over the same period in 2014 and the highest amount of visitors of any quarter in the state's history. Last year, more than 98 million visitors came to Florida.
General Manager of LEGOLAND Florida Resort Adrian Jones said, "LEGOLAND Florida Resort is continuously expanding, making it an awesome place for families with children to stay for multiple days. The addition of LEGOLAND Hotel makes that possible. The hotel is a fully immersive experience, with a number of exclusive features unique to LEGOLAND Florida Resort and we're excited to welcome families to stay and play with us for the first time in Florida!"
LEGOLAND Hotel features 152 guest rooms and suites across four themes: Pirate, Kingdom, Adventure, and LEGO Friends. The new LEGOLAND Hotel debuts several features unique to LEGOLAND Florida Resort. The Hotel offers the only LEGO Friends themed guest rooms in the U.S., and the only LEGO Friends themed suite in the world. Guests of the Hotel also enjoy early access to LEGOLAND Florida Resort, free full breakfast daily, interactive play areas, daily and nightly entertainment, disco elevator, resort pool and more. To make a reservation, visit LEGOLANDHotel.com.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/05/15/gov-scott-applauds-creation-of-150-jobs-at-legoland-hotel-in-winter-haven/
