Public Statements
Governor Scott Signs Bill Legalizing 64 Oz. Growlers
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 14, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Scott signed SB 186, legalizing the sale of 64 ounce growlers in Florida.
Governor Scott said, "By making the sale of 64 ounce growlers legal in Florida, we are eliminating another burdensome regulation and allowing more Florida businesses to succeed. We are pleased to continue to create a world class business environment where all businesses, including breweries, can succeed. I would like to thank Senator Latvala and Representatives Sprowls and Young for their work on this legislation."
Senator Latvala said, "I am proud to stand with Governor Scott today as he signs SB 186 making the growler legal in Florida. Florida brewers should have every tool at their disposal to succeed, and this bill is a huge step in that direction. I am proud of our work, and we will continue to work with the Governor to make sure every Florida business is thriving."
Representative Sprowls said, "With the Governor's signature of SB 186 legalizing the growler, today marks a great day for breweries and citizens of the state of Florida. Growlers will create growth and expansion for the breweries in our state and give Floridians more choices at them. I want to thank Governor Scott for signing this good bill and look forward to working with him and my other colleagues to create more opportunities for businesses to succeed in our state."
Majority Leader Young said, "Today, Florida is taking a major step forward in supporting our growing craft beer industry. By legalizing the 64 ounce growler and streamlining the regulation of craft brewers, the bill increases competition and taps a great Florida resource that will benefit businesses and consumers alike. I am truly grateful to my colleagues for their help in crafting this great legislation and to the Governor for signing it today. Florida has finally freed the Growler!"
Mike Halker, President of the Florida Brewers Guild, said, "We are thrilled with the passage and signature of SB 186 legalizing sales of growlers in our breweries. Growlers will give our customers more choices, increase our sales, and directly benefit Florida and its taxpayers. We would like to thank the legislature and the Governor for their work on this great bill."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/05/14/governor-scott-signs-bill-legalizing-64-oz-growlers/
