Public Statements
Gov. Scott: We Are Directing State Resources to Help Displaced Travelers
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 7, 2017
Location: Fort Lauderdale, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott released the following statement on resources the State of Florida is making available for those affected by the Fort Lauderdale International Airport attack.
Governor Scott said, "During the attack yesterday, many travelers had to run to safety which resulted in lost identification and missing belongings. This morning, I directed the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles to deploy Florida Licensing on Wheels (FLOW) mobile units to the Ft. Lauderdale airport and seaport in order to assist with identification and credentialing needs. We want displaced travelers to be able to return home to their families or start their vacation as quickly as possible.
"We are reaching out to consul generals on behalf of any displaced international travelers to see if they can come to the airport and provide passport services to assist them. We have also spoken with the American Red Cross, which is coordinating to provide travelers with necessary clothing, food and supplies.
"We continue to offer our deepest condolences to those who lost loved ones in this horrific attack and we will keep praying for the victims that are still fighting for their lives. While this is a terrible tragedy, I have been incredibly humbled by the stories of individuals helping one another and working together to help each other recover. We are fully committed to doing everything we can to meet the needs of these displaced travelers and will continue to share updates on information and resources as soon as they become available."
Anyone who has lost luggage can call 1-866-435-9355. Remember to check www.floridadisaster.org/info for more information on available resources.
Resources for displaced travelers include:
The Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles' Division of Motorist Services has deployed nine Florida Licensing on Wheels (FLOW) mobiles to assist displaced Floridians and visitors with any identification or credentialing needs. The FLOWs will be serving customers in the areas of the Fort Lauderdale airport and the seaport.
The Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles' Division of the Florida Highway Patrol (FHP) has also devoted troopers who will assist at the FLOW mobile sites to help ensure the safety of customers as they obtain credentials from the department.
Family Assistance Center (provides services to those with loved ones affected by the event). Located at Renaissance Hotel, 1617 SE 17th Street, Fort Lauderdale FL, (954) 626-1700.
VISIT FLORIDA and Expedia have partnered to identify hotel availability in Fort Lauderdale. They will be monitoring availability all night and will continue to issue updates to ensure accuracy of rooms and rate. Please visit www.expedia.com/florida to find available lodging.
Airbnb has activated their urgent accommodations in Fort Lauderdale and all service fees will be waived for those affected by the attack. Please visit www.airbnb.com/disaster/ftlauderdale to find available lodging.
Broward County Call Center currently offers a toll-free information hotline at (866) 435-9355.
To get the latest updates and briefings regarding the attack at the Fort Lauderdale International Airport, please visit www.floridadisaster.org/info.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2017/01/07/gov-scott-we-are-directing-state-resources-to-help-displaced-travelers/
