Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces Sancilio & Company's Creation of 275 Jobs in Riviera Beach
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 14, 2015
Location: Riviera Beach, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced Sancilio & Company's creation of 275 jobs in Riviera Beach. The company will also retain 149 jobs and invest $6.7 million in the region as part of their expansion.
Governor Scott said, "We are proud to announce that Sancilio & Company is adding 275 new jobs in Florida because we know that every new job creates opportunities for families in our state. Florida private sector businesses have created more than 841,000 jobs since December 2010, and announcements like this help our state become the top global destination for jobs."
Sancilio & Company, Inc. was founded in 2005 and is engaged in the development, commercialization and manufacturing of branded prescription, over-the-counter and generic prescription pharmaceutical products. In 2007, the company began extensive research work on fish oil components, and discovered methods to analyze and isolate these materials. The company has developed and internationally distributes highly purified versions of these potent materials.
"It is a privilege and an honor to have the support of Governor Scott here at Sancilio & Company," said Dr. Frederick Sancilio, founder & CEO. "He and his administration continue the legacy of former Governor Jeb Bush's commitment to the life sciences and biopharma industries, the seeds of which were planted with the funding of Scripps and other bold initiatives. We are proud to be among several biopharma companies that have chosen to grow here in the area, which is directly attributable to the local partnerships and support from Palm Beach County and the City of Riviera Beach."
Florida's manufacturing sector ranks among the top 10 nationally with more than 18,200 companies employing some 317,000 people statewide. The state is a premier location for life science clusters, world-renowned biomedical research institutes, and more than 1,100 biotech, pharmaceutical and medical device companies.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president and CEO said, "Florida has become a well-known destination for both manufacturing and life sciences companies. Under Governor Scott's leadership our state has become better for businesses and the pro-business climate here will allow companies like Sancilio & Company to continue to grow and succeed. Today we celebrate their expansion in Riviera Beach and thank them for their continued job creation."
This project was made possible by the close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, the City of Riviera Beach, Palm Beach County and the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County.
DEO Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Palm Beach County has had one of the best economic turnarounds in the state, and the growth of businesses like Sancilio & Company is the reason. The Scott Administration is working hard to create the pro-growth climate that promotes jobs and allows the families of Palm Beach County to live the American dream."
"We are thrilled to be partnering with the State of Florida and the City of Riviera Beach to create and retain a large number of jobs and support the growth of the pharmaceutical industry in this county's high tech corridor," said Commissioner Priscilla Taylor, who also serves as the County's appointee to the Business Development Board.
Riviera Beach Council Chairwoman Dawn Pardo stated, "The City of Riviera Beach is thrilled that Sancilio & Company has chosen to expand their operation in our city. This expansion is another bright spot in the continued expansion of advanced manufacturing in Riviera Beach. We look forward to the additional 275 new jobs that Sancilio will create over the next three years and we have vowed to partner with them to train local residents for these career opportunities."
Palm Beach County Mayor Shelley Vana stressed the importance of partnering with private industry in order to support economic development. "Once again, Palm Beach County has demonstrated its commitment to work with our state and municipal partners to create the best climate for business expansion."
"Founded in Palm Beach County, Sancilio & Company is a great success story," said Kelly Smallridge, BDB President and CEO. "The company started in 800 square feet of space and has grown to be a leader in its industry, complementing the impressive list of Life Sciences companies located in Palm Beach County."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/05/14/gov-scott-announces-sancilio-companys-creation-of-275-jobs-in-riviera-beach/
