Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Ending LIP Funds is Disappointing Political Power Play by Obama Administration
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 12, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

Governor Rick Scott released the following statement today following meetings with members of the Florida Congressional Delegation to update them on Florida's battle to get the Obama Administration to reconsider cancelling the Low Income Pool program in Florida and ask for their help to tell the federal government they cannot coerce Florida into expanding Obamacare.
Governor Scott said, "Let there be no doubt, the Obama Administration's end to the LIP program in states is the new battlefront in states' fight against federal overreach. They want us to take on more of Obamacare. They want us to adopt their policy the way they want us to -- or else. This is the Sopranos.
"I am very grateful that U.S. House Energy & Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton agreed to hold a hearing on the Obama Administration's end to the Low Income Pool Program in Florida in an attempt to coerce us into expanding Obamacare. The committee's hearing will bring much-needed attention to the Obama Administration's disappointing political power play at the expense of the healthcare of low-income families in our state.
"Every day that passes without the Obama Administration reversing course and continuing the Low Income Pool funding in Florida is just more proof that this absolutely is coercion. They will withhold these funds until we do exactly what they say. That is why Kansas and Texas are joining our lawsuit. They are worried about the same coercion tactics going on in their states.
"I met with members of the Florida Delegation today because we need their help. We need their help telling the federal government they cannot coerce Florida into expanding Obamacare.
"This is the same thing President Obama does with his executive orders. But, this time the Obama Administration has gone too far. When they sent Florida a letter -- in writing -- saying that Low Income Pool funding was "linked' to Medicaid "coverage' in Florida, they directly violated the Supreme Court's decision in NFIB v. Sebelius. The Court said the Obama Administration could not use "gun to the head' tactics of withholding funding to force states into Obamacare.
"The Obama Administration is putting their own quest for power above the healthcare needs of low-income families in Florida and that is wrong -- on every level."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/05/12/gov-scott-ending-lip-funds-is-disappointing-political-power-play-by-obama-administration/
