Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Awards Treasure Coast Business with Governor's Business Ambassador Award
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 5, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott recognized PJ Anson, CEO and founder of STS Aviation Group, with the Governor's Business Ambassador Award. The Governor's Business Ambassador Award is given to individuals and business in recognition of their efforts to create jobs and opportunities for Florida families.
Governor Scott said, "STS Aviation Group is providing Treasure Coast residents with more opportunities to find a great career so they can provide for their families. They are also focused on hiring veterans and we applaud their dedication to providing job opportunities to those who have served our country. Every new job puts us one step closer to becoming the global destination for jobs, and we are excited to recognize STS Aviation Group with a Business Ambassador Award for creating more than 150 new jobs since 2010."
Founded in 1985, STS has become a global powerhouse in the aerospace industry. Not only does STS provide aviation staffing services to an expanding network of clients across the United States, it also sells and distributes aircraft parts, offers in-house engineering services and operates award-winning Line Maintenance Stations strategically positioned at 12 major airports around the country. In 2010, STS had approximately 125 employees. Today, they have more than 300 employees throughout the state. They are expected to have over 400 employees by the end of 2016.
PJ Anson, CEO of STS Aviation Group, said "On behalf of everyone at STS Aviation Group, I'm honored to accept the Governor's Business Ambassador Award. Our company's growth throughout the state of Florida has been remarkable, and I am very proud of our commitment to help veterans seamlessly transition out of the public and into the private sector. We owe these brave men and women our freedom, and the least we can do as the world's leading aerospace staffing company is to help them find rewarding, life-long careers that deliver the sense of self-satisfaction and fulfillment they so rightfully deserve. I am also thankful to Governor Scott for this recognition today and look forward to continually creating opportunities throughout Florida."
Headquartered in Jensen Beach, Florida, STS Aviation Group has continued its amazing level of growth year after year and now has a significant international presence with operations throughout the United States, The United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Singapore, Turkey and Brazil.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/05/05/governor-rick-scott-awards-treasure-coast-business-with-governors-business-ambassador-award/
