Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott: TQL Will Create up to 200 Jobs in Tampa
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 5, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott announced today that Total Quality Logistics (TQL), one of the largest freight-brokerage firms in the country, is expected to nearly double its Tampa workforce and open a new carrier service division which will create up to 200 new jobs. In addition to TQL opening new office space on Harbour Island this March, they plan to open a carrier services division in Tampa later this year. The carrier service center will be the company's first non-sales division to open outside of corporate headquarters in Ohio.
Governor Scott said, "Our work to make Florida number one for business is paying off, and TQL has chosen to open their new carrier service center in Florida, the company's first outside of Ohio. TQL already employs almost 350 Floridians in Tampa, Jacksonville, Orlando and Fort Lauderdale, and the creation of up to 200 new jobs in Tampa is great news."
"We're committed to growing our presence in Florida and around the country," TQL President Kerry Byrne said. "This new office on Harbour Island shows that. We have room to double our sales force here in the next few years, in addition to housing our new carrier services division. This location is an advantage. We're right in the middle of everything as Tampa reinvents its downtown area. The diversity of the hiring pool is another huge plus. We're excited to be here and to bring quality jobs to the area. We would like to thank Governor Scott for his work to make Florida more business-friendly and for helping us announce our expansion in Florida."
TQL Tampa was the company's second satellite location. It began operations in 2010 with five founding members and has grown to 150 employees. TQL also has Florida locations in Jacksonville, Orlando and Fort Lauderdale. Statewide, TQL employs almost 350 Floridians. TQL has been recognized numerous times as a top employer in the state. The company's Tampa office recently took fourth place in the 2015 Tampa Bay Business Journal's Best Places to Work competition and was named a 2015 Top Workplace by the Tampa Bay Times. TQL's Fort Lauderdale office was recently named to the Sun Sentinel's 2015 list of Top Workplaces in South Florida.

Source:
