Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott: We Will Use Every Available Resource to Keep Citizens Safe
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 6, 2017
Location: Fort Lauderdale, FL

Today, in response to the shooting at the Fort Lauderdale International Airport, Governor Rick Scott released the following statement.
Governor Scott said, "We cannot and will not tolerate this type of violence in Florida. We will not stand for this and the person responsible will be brought to justice to the absolute fullest extent of the law. When you hurt one of us -- you hurt all of us.
"I have been in Fort Lauderdale all afternoon getting briefed by law enforcement. Local, state and federal officials are working together to get control of the situation and get answers. There is still a lot of information that we are waiting on. But we know that many people have been killed and many are fighting for their lives at hospitals in Broward County. This was an attack on innocent people who were just trying to travel home to their families or go on a fun trip this weekend.
"President-elect Trump and Vice President-elect Pence called me immediately following the attack and we have spoken multiple times this afternoon. I have reached out to Mark Gale at the Fort Lauderdale Airport and Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel to offer the full resources of the state. The state stands ready to assist in any way.
"I have also spoken to our airport directors across the state and sheriffs to offer any additional resources that they may need to ensure the safety at their airports. I have spoken to Major General Calhoun of the Florida National Guard and they are prepared to respond to support local law enforcement or provide support at our airports and local communities.
"In Florida, we use every resource available to keep our visitors and citizens safe. My number one priority is the safety of everyone in our state. Florida is a strong and resilient state. We will not let attacks like this tear us apart. I will continue to provide regular updates as I get more briefings from law enforcement."

Source:
