Public Statements
Governor Scott Highlights Job Creation at Lockheed Martin in Riviera Beach
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 4, 2015
Location: Riviera Beach, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted job creation at Lockheed Martin, a global security and aerospace company engaged in the research, design and development of advanced technology systems. Lockheed Martin has created more than 400 jobs in Palm Beach County and plans to add over 100 jobs in 2016. In total, Lockheed Martin employs 12,000 Floridians across the state. Governor Scott also awarded 47 of its employees with the Governor's Veterans Service Award for their service to Florida and the nation.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We are proud to recognize Florida job creators like Lockheed Martin for their work to create opportunities across the state. Lockheed Martin has created more than 400 new jobs for families in Palm Beach County and plans to add over 100 jobs in 2016. I was also proud to recognize 47 of their veterans in honor of their service to our state and our nation. We want Florida to become the global destination for jobs, and we will keep working to provide companies like Lockheed Martin with the environment to grow and succeed in our state."
Michele Evans, Lockheed Martin Vice President of Undersea Systems, said, "Lockheed Martin is proud to be located in Riviera Beach, one of the most vibrant technology communities in the Southeast, and we are excited that our continued success has allowed us to grow and create job opportunities for so many Floridians. Palm Beach County continues to be a true partner in economic development initiatives. "
During the event, Governor Scott also highlighted Lockheed Martin, Neptune Research, Sancilio and Company and the Viking Yacht Company as Riviera Beach manufacturing companies recently recognized by the South Florida Manufacturing Association as winners or finalists of the "Manufacturer of the Year" Award.
Florida is home to more than 2,000 aerospace and aviation companies that employ more than 82,000 Floridians and create an annual payroll impact of more than $5 billion in the state. Florida has long been the world's premier gateway to space, a major hub for flight training and MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul), and home to leading manufacturers of all types of aircraft and aircraft components.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president and CEO said, "Florida's manufacturing sector has continually become stronger thanks to companies like Lockheed Martin, Neptune Research, Sancilio and Company, and the Viking Yacht Company. Thanks to Governor Scott's leadership we are building up Florida manufacturing. Florida's perfect business climate makes our state the ideal location for manufacturers across all industries."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/05/04/governor-scott-highlights-job-creation-at-lockheed-martin-in-riviera-beach/
