Public Statements
Gov. Rick Scott Announces National Vision to Open 10 New Locations Throughout Florida
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 1, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that National Vision, one of the largest optical retailers in the United States, will be opening 10 new America's Best Contacts & Eyeglasses and Eyeglass World locations in Florida in 2015. This expansion will create more than 100 new jobs for Florida families. National Vision currently has 75 locations across the state and employs more than 700 Floridians.
Governor Scott said, "In 2012, I was proud to welcome National Vision to their first location in Miami, and I am excited to again join National Vision to announce their 10 new locations across Florida. We are working each day to lower taxes and eliminate regulations so Florida job creators like National Vision can succeed. Each new job is an opportunity for a Floridian to achieve their dreams, and we will continue to do all we can to make Florida the global destination for jobs."
The new locations will be in Miami, Orlando, Tampa and West Palm Beach. New Florida locations will be the retail divisions America's Best Contacts & Eyeglasses and Eyeglass World. Last year alone, National Vision's Florida locations provided services for more than 440,000 Floridians.
Bruce Steffey, COO and President of National Vision, said, "National Vision is proud to be able to provide access to affordable, quality eyewear and eye care to the many Floridians who would otherwise be unable to obtain these goods and services. We are grateful to Governor Scott for his work to create an environment where businesses like ours can thrive, and we look forward to continuing to provide access, create jobs, and invest capital in the Sunshine State."
Reade Fahs, CEO, said, "We've opened three Florida locations in 2015 so far, in Hialeah, Pinellas Park and Altamonte Springs. We anticipate serving more customers in 2015 than ever before, while we strive to become an integral part of each new community."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/05/01/gov-rick-scott-announces-national-vision-to-open-10-new-locations-throughout-florida/
