Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Resources are Available for Those Affected by Fort Lauderdale International Airport Attack
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 6, 2017
Location: Fort Lauderdale, FL

Following the Fort Lauderdale International Airport attack, Governor Rick Scott released the following statement on resources state and local officials are making available.
Governor Scott said, "Following this horrific attack, I know many families are worried about their loved ones and that many travelers are concerned and in need of helpful resources and support. Our local, state and federal officials are working together to get answers and make sure everyone is informed and kept safe. Our law enforcement will be working throughout the night and our state emergency operations center is monitoring this tragic incident and will continue to do so 24 hours a day.
"Anyone affected by this terrible attack can find helpful resources at www.floridadisaster.org/info. I have directed the Florida Department of Health to dispatch grief counselors to the family assistance center to provide support. VISIT FLORIDA has partnered with Expedia to constantly update their websites with available rooms for displaced travelers. Additionally, AirBnb has activated their urgent accommodations. Broward County has also activated a call center to further help any travelers that have been displaced. We will continue to keep praying for the victims and providing information as it becomes available."
Resources include:
Family Assistance Center (provides services to those with loved ones affected by the event). Located at Renaissance Hotel, 1617 SE 17th Street, Fort Lauderdale FL, (954) 626-1700.
VISIT FLORIDA and Expedia have partnered to identify hotel availability in Fort Lauderdale. They will be monitoring availability all night and will continue to issue updates to ensure accuracy of rooms and rate. Please visit www.expedia.com/florida to find available lodging.
Airbnb has activated their urgent accommodations in Fort Lauderdale and all service fees will be waived for those affected by the attack. Please visit www.airbnb.com/disaster/ftlauderdale to find available lodging.
Broward Country Call Center currently offers a toll-free information hotline at (866) 435-9355.
To get the latest updates and briefings regarding the attack at the Fort Lauderdale International Airport, please visit www.floridadisaster.org/info.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2017/01/06/gov-scott-resources-are-available-for-those-affected-by-fort-lauderdale-international-airport-attack/
