Public Statements
Gov. Scott Highlights Job Creation at Club Trust in Orlando
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 20, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted job growth at Club Trust, a timeshare and vacation ownership company operating under the trade name staySky Vacation Clubs in Orlando. StaySky currently employs more than 300 Floridians, including the 88 new jobs created by their recent expansion.
Governor Scott said, "We are excited to celebrate the creation of 88 new jobs in Orlando today thanks to Club Trust's expansion. Club Trust chose Florida over locations in New York, Massachusetts, and Georgia because our state is the best place to succeed. Visitors are coming to Florida at record levels, which means more opportunities for companies like Club Trust to grow and create jobs for our families. We are working to make Florida the number one destination for businesses, visitors and families and this exciting announcement shows we are on the way to achieving that goal."
While staySky looked at locations in New York, Massachusetts, and Georgia to expand, they ultimately chose Florida as the best place to grow their hospitality and vacation business. Tourism is Florida's number one industry, and the state leads the nation in visitors annually. More than 97 million visitors came to Florida in 2014, an increase of 3.9 percent over 2013.
John Gordon, CEO of staySky and Club Trust, said, "Nothing makes us happier than being able to provide our guests with best vacations and service possible, and Orlando has proven to be a great destination to meet those needs. We are proud of the excellent work our team does every day, and we are excited to welcome these 88 new team members to Club Trust. We are grateful to Governor Scott for recognizing our success today, and we look forward to our continued growth in Florida."
Enterprise Florida president & CEO Bill Johnson said, "Florida is uniquely positioned to benefit from being both a leading business destination and the number one tourist destination in the U.S. This expansion from Club Trust is a perfect fit for the company and the state, and we thank them for their expanded commitment to Florida."
The project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, Inc., the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, City of Orlando and the Orlando Economic Development Commission.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "The expansion of Club Trust, LLC means 88 more Florida families will have the opportunity to work and live the American dream. Florida's nation-leading business climate, paired with record tourism rates, creates a perfect environment for this exciting expansion."
"We are extremely pleased that staySky Vacation Club has chosen to maintain and expand its international headquarters in the City of Orlando," said Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer. "In addition to 88 new jobs available to our residents, the company's investment in newly acquired properties will continue to support and enhance the world class experience our City offers to our more than 60 million annual visitors."
"Club Trust's decision to expand in Orlando is a strong indication of our region's viability as a prime business location," said Rick Weddle, president and CEO of the Orlando Economic Development Commission.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/04/20/gov-scott-highlights-job-creation-at-club-trust-in-orlando/
