Public Statements
Gov. Scott Highlights Job Creation at Flightstar Aircraft Services
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 15, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted job growth at Flightstar Aircraft Services, a leading provider of heavy maintenance and repair that employs 1,150 Floridians. In December of 2012, Flightstar Aircraft Services announced that it would remain at Cecil Airport in Jacksonville and would expand operations. Since the announcement the company has created 100 new jobs.
Governor Scott said, "We are excited to celebrate Flightstar Aircraft Services' growth in Jacksonville, and congratulate them on hiring more than 1,100 Floridians. Since 2011, Flightstar has doubled their workforce, which means that many more Floridians are now able to build a great career and achieve their dreams. By cutting regulations and reducing taxes, businesses like Flightstar are able to grow and succeed in our great state. We will keep working to create a business-friendly environment, so we can achieve our mission of making Florida the global destination for jobs."
Lieutenant Governor Carlos Lopez-Cantera said, "Under Governor Scott's leadership, Florida's economy has experienced a great turnaround. Companies like Flightstar Aircraft Services are expanding and creating more opportunities for our families because Florida is number one for business. We will keep working to make sure our state is the best place to work, to live, and to raise a family."
Flightstar combines flexibility and creative solutions to help its customers operate more efficiently, realize lower recurring maintenance costs, and maximize the return on investment for each aircraft in need of a maintenance visit.
Flightstar CEO Jerry Hernandez said, "Flightstar Aircraft Services started with only four people in 2000, and we are proud of the super charged growth our company has experienced over the last few years. We are grateful to Governor Scott for his commitment to supporting businesses like Flightstar and look forward to our continued success in Jacksonville."
Flightstar COO Tucker Morrison said, "We are excited to be growing and creating even more opportunities for local Jacksonville families. Flightstar has doubled our workforce since 2011, and our success would not be possible without the support of Governor Scott and the hard work of all our great team members."
Florida is already home to more than 2,000 aerospace and aviation companies that employ more than 82,000 Floridians and create an annual payroll impact of more than $5 billion in the state. This year Governor Scott is working with the Florida Legislature to permanently eliminate the sales tax on manufacturing equipment. This will help to create a more competitive business environment, and help to grow Florida manufacturers.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president and CEO said, "Thanks to companies like Flightstar Aircraft Services, Florida's manufacturing sector has grown significantly. We are working to permanently eliminate the sales tax on manufacturing equipment to give Florida a more competitive tax environment. We thank Flightstar Aircraft Services for their growing commitment to Florida."
Florida Department of Transportation Secretary Jim Boxold said, "We are pleased to partner with the Jacksonville Aviation Authority to continue supporting aviation and aerospace companies, like Flightstar Aircraft Services, in Florida. Aviation in Florida is responsible for an estimated $144 billion in annual economic impact activity, and Flightstar's growth not only supports Florida's aviation industry but creates opportunities for Florida families."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Flightstar Aircraft Services' creation of 100 jobs in two years is a testament to what hard-working companies accomplish when paired with the pro-growth policies set forth by Governor Scott. Thanks to companies like Flightstar, Florida is becoming a world destination for STEM employment."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/04/15/gov-scott-highlights-job-creation-at-flightstar-aircraft-services/
