Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announces Nestle USA to Shift Shipments to JAXPORT
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 13, 2015
Location: Unknown

Following a meeting with representatives from Nestle USA, Governor Rick Scott today announced that the company will shift a majority of their US to Puerto Rico shipments from the Port of New York and New Jersey to JAXPORT. Nestle USA's volume to Puerto Rico is expected to grow by at least 400 percent over the course of the next six months, making it the fourth highest volume export for Nestle.
Governor Scott said, "We had a great meeting with representatives from Nestle USA today in California and we are excited to announce that they will be shifting a majority of their shipments from the Port of New York and New Jersey to JAXPORT. On top of Florida's great business climate and low taxes, Florida has 15 seaports that we have invested over $850 million in to ensure we are poised to lead the nation in expanded international trade opportunities. Nestle already employs over 2,000 people in our state and we look forward to the many more jobs they will create by utilizing JAXPORT. We will continue to meet with companies today in California to tell them why Florida is the best location for their business to succeed."
Paul Bakus, President Nestle Corporate Affairs, said, "Nestle USA is excited about the opportunity to move shipments to JAXPORT. Florida offers a great climate for our business to compete globally and JAXPORT is ideally situated to effectively move our products to our expanding markets. We applaud the Governor's investment in Florida's springs because we believe a healthy environment is the backbone of a strong economy."
Doug Wheeler, President and CEO of the Florida Ports Council, said, "Businesses are recognizing that Florida's ports provide a more cost-effective option and a better overall business environment than many of our competitors, and as a result are moving more of their freight through our ports. The growth of global companies in Florida is a direct outcome of the commitment and focus of Governor Scott, the Florida Department of Transportation and Florida's ports on enhancing the freight infrastructure in our state."
JAXPORT CEO Brian Taylor said, "This good news reinforces the fact that Jacksonville and Florida remain the primary gateway for serving the people of Puerto Rico and that JAXPORT's commitment to this important trade lane continues to grow even as we build strong connections around the world."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/04/13/governor-rick-scott-announces-nestle-usa-to-shift-shipments-to-jaxport/
