Public Statements
Gov. Scott Highlights 148 Jobs at Creative Agency Services Team in Sarasota
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 9, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Scott highlighted job growth at Creative Agency Services Team (CAST) headquartered in Sarasota. In 2012, CAST employed less than 30 employees. Today there are 62 employees at its Sarasota headquarters and 148 employees statewide. In the past 12 months alone, CAST has hired 70 employees in the state and that number is projected to increase exponentially in 2015.
Governor Scott said, "I would like to congratulate Creative Agency Services Team on creating 148 jobs, and 70 in the last year alone for Florida families. Thanks to companies like CAST who have continued to grow, Florida businesses have been able to create more than 807,000 private-sector jobs in just over four years. CAST is also projected to keep growing and creating more opportunities for families, which is great news."
CAST is a shopper marketing agency, architecting the customer experience by delivering world-class execution and expertise. They have worked to revolutionize disciplines like Retail Merchandising, and to invent solutions that deliver product information to shoppers at the speed-of-curiosity. The company was established to provide retailers, brands and their customers with a better shopping experience. According to CAST, within its first five years of operation, they became one the fastest growing marketing and retail service providers in the US.
John Paul Orr, CEO of Creative Agency Services Team said, ""At Creative Agency Services Team, we are committed to providing our clients with the industry's best resource for retail services, and that starts with a great workforce. Governor Scott has shown true leadership in creating an environment in our state where company's like CAST can succeed and grow. As a national company operating in all 50 states, we see very clearly the difference between government as an asset and government as a barrier. We are fortunate to live and work in a state that is led by a governor who is committed to job growth as a fundamental economic driver. We look forward to continuing to work with him to make our company and our state the best it can be."
Florida continues to offer a cost-competitive environment, favorable tax structure, no personal income tax and a well-educated workforce, and which is why more than 2,600 corporate headquarters call Florida home, including 16 in the Fortune 500. Florida's global connectivity, experienced workforce and favorable business climate make Florida the ideal location for many of the nation's leading financial and professional services companies. In addition, Florida's 112,000 financial and professional firms employ around 850,000 Floridians today.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president and CEO said, "Florida's financial and professional services sector continues to grow as companies like CAST make investments in the state. Thanks to Governor Scott's leadership, Florida has become the perfect climate for business. We applaud CAST's growth and innovation and look forward to their continued growth."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/04/09/gov-scott-highlights-148-jobs-at-creative-agency-services-team-in-sarasota/
