Public Statements
Governor Scott Highlights Job Creation at Cole Engineering Services
Statement
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 7, 2015
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted Cole Engineering, an employee-owned engineering services company, for creating 40 new jobs since announcing plans to expand in Florida last fall. Cole Engineering employs 125 Floridians, and has invested an additional $1 million in the Orlando community since its expansion.
Governor Scott said, "It is exciting to celebrate Cole Engineering's growth in Florida and recognize their dedication to providing support to our brave military members and first responders. While Cole Engineering looked at locations in other states, they ultimately decided to expand in Florida and create 40 new jobs for our families. We are proud that many hard-working companies like Cole Engineering have recognized Florida as the best place to grow and create opportunities, and we will keep working to make Florida the top destination for jobs."
For more than a decade, Cole Engineering has been at the forefront of developing simulation-based training, technical services, and other support services for the brave men and women of the United States military and first responders. Cole Engineering was founded in Florida in 2004 and last fall, chose to expand their headquarters and research and development operations in Florida over locations in other states. Cole Engineering also makes regular donations to the community, showing just how deep their commitment is to the Orlando area.
Cole Engineering CEO Bryan Cole said, "Cole Engineering is proud of the work we do to help train the brave men and women who have chosen to defend our freedom, and Florida has proven to be an ideal location for our company to meet their needs. Our customers risk their lives for our country, and our number one goal is to do everything we can to support them. We are thankful to Governor Scott for his commitment to creating an environment where businesses like ours can grow, and we look forward to our future success in Orlando."
Florida ranks third for high-tech establishments, and is also the third largest exporter of high-tech products in the nation. The state's IT strengths include diverse and growing sectors and some 25,000 IT companies, which employ nearly 250,000 professionals. Florida offers support structures for the full life-cycle of IT firms, allowing companies to start, succeed and expand in the Sunshine State.
Senate President Andy Gardiner said, "Florida has worked diligently to support STEM industries in our state by establishing a business friendly environment and investing in our students and workforce to ensure they are able to meet industry demands. Cole Engineering's expansion and growth are a testament that Florida has the resources that lead to success."
Enterprise Florida president & CEO Bill Johnson said, "We applaud Cole Engineering's growth and commitment to Florida. With more than 2,600 headquarters offices located in Florida, EFI and Governor Scott are working hard to bring even more opportunities to the Sunshine state."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Cole Engineering is another example of success in Florida's burgeoning I-4 corridor, as it has created 40 high-wage, high-skill jobs in Orlando since last fall. Florida already boasts an impressive top three national ranking for high-tech establishments, and companies, such as Cole Engineering, that thrive in Florida's business-friendly community continue to show the world why Florida is a destination for STEM employment."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/04/07/governor-scott-highlights-job-creation-at-cole-engineering-services/
