Public Statements
Governor Scott Highlights Creation of 90 Jobs at Azimuth Technology
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 2, 2015
Location: Naples, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted Azimuth Technology's recent expansion and creation of 90 jobs in the Naples area in the last three years. Azimuth Technology has more than a 45,000 square foot facility and manufactures aluminum, titanium, stainless steel, plastics, unique alloys and ceramics.
Governor Scott said, "I am thrilled to be able to celebrate Azimuth Technology's growth here in Florida. Not only is Azimuth growing, but they are committed to hiring veterans and making sure our heroes have great jobs. We are on a mission to make Florida the global destination for job creation, and with the help of companies like Azimuth Technologies, we will continue to create more opportunities for Florida families."
Azimuth Technology has created 90 manufacturing jobs over three years. Azimuth Technology has also put a large focus on creating opportunities for veterans. With an unwavering commitment to excellence and superior workmanship, Azimuth Technologies has found Florida's workforce to be both educated and innovative.
Speaker of the House Steve Crisafulli said, "Governor Scott's continued focus to bring jobs to Florida gives communities all around our great state high-skilled, high-paying jobs. Azimuth Technologies commitment to our veterans is particularly important as it provides opportunities for our bravest men and women."
Len Zaiser, CEO of Azimuth Technology, said "We are proud to have the support of Governor Scott here at Azimuth Technology. We are committed to making great products for our customers and hiring more Floridians in the Naples area. We look forward to continuing to expand our business and provide more opportunities for Floridians."
This year Governor Scott is working with the Florida Legislature to permanently eliminate the sales tax on manufacturing equipment. This will help to create a more competitive business environment, and help to grow Florida manufacturers. Florida manufacturers are a powerful economic engine for the state's economy, and Florida's strong workforce and top-ranked infrastructure make it the perfect state for manufacturers.
Enterprise Florida president & CEO Bill Johnson said, "Enterprise Florida and Governor Scott have worked hard to make Florida's business climate more competitive, and news like this shows that those efforts are working. Companies like Azimuth Technology are growing and strengthening Florida's manufacturing sector, and we look forward to seeing their continued success."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Florida's manufacturing industry has added more than 21,000 new jobs since December 2010 and it is companies like Azimuth Technology that are contributing to this growth. This administration's commitment to making Florida a business-friendly state for manufacturers is paying off as more jobs in this industry are being created in across the state and in Naples."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/04/02/governor-scott-highlights-creation-of-90-jobs-at-azimuth-technology/
