Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces 40 New Jobs At GeniusCentral Systems
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 26, 2015
Location: St. Petersburg, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that GeniusCentral Systems, Inc., a design and development integration retail and supplier of software platforms, will create 40 new jobs in Pinellas County.
Governor Scott said, "Every new job helps families have the chance to live their dreams in Florida, and the creation of 40 new jobs by GeniusCentral Systems means more opportunities for families in the Tampa Bay area. GeniusCentral is an example of a company expanding because of the great business climate we have created, and we will keep working every day to make sure Florida is best state for business. Florida businesses have created more than 801,000 private sector jobs since December 2010, and we will keep working to make Florida the global destination for job creation."
Senate President Andy Gardiner said, "The creation of forty new jobs is great news, particularly for the forty individuals or families who will see added financial security and peace of mind as a result of these new positions. I appreciate Governor Scott's dedication to expanding private sector job opportunities in our state. Under his leadership, our economy is headed in the right direction."
Speaker of the House Steve Crisafulli said "Companies like GeniusCentral Systems provide the high-tech, high-paying jobs that Floridians need. The Florida House will continue to help create a climate where companies like these can grow both their business and our economy."
Since 1999, GeniusCentral has developed software for the natural and organic industry and is positioned as the hub that streamlines product flow between suppliers and retailers through to consumers. The company anticipates job growth in the next few years to be focused in technical development and analytics, as well as sales and marketing.
Florida ranks second in the nation for tech job growth and third for high-tech establishments. In addition, the state's software and computer systems design and integration industry is one of the largest in the U.S., with nearly 12,600 firms. Nearly half of the more than 80,000 professionals who work in the field are employed by software development firms, with the rest working in related technology-intensive industries throughout the state.
John Miles, President and CEO of Genius Central, said, "We at GeniusCentral Systems are proud to have Governor Scott's support as we continue to expand here in St. Petersburg and create 40 great high tech jobs. It's important for growing companies like ours to have a solid business climate and a great workforce, and Governor Scott and Florida have provided both."
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida CEO and president said, "Growing companies like GeniusCentral are important indicators that Florida's opportunity economy is becoming stronger under Governor Scott's leadership. This company's expansion gives further depth to Florida's robust IT sector, and we look forward to their continued success."
The project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, the City of St. Petersburg and the Pinellas County Board of County Commissioners.
Jesse Panuccio, Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director, said, "GeniusCentral System's creation of 40 more jobs in Florida continues a trend of good economic news in Pinellas County and the state as a whole. Florida's business-friendly, pro-growth policies support the creation of STEM jobs and new opportunities for Florida families."
Rick Kriseman, Mayor of St. Petersburg, said "I am so pleased to welcome John Miles and his talented team at GeniusCentral Systems to the Sunshine City. This company is a leader in actionable intelligence, so I'm sure that they used all of their organization's shrewd acumen to make the best and most logical decision for the GeniusCentral Systems' future growth by selecting the City of St. Petersburg for their new headquarters."
Mike Meidel, Director of Pinellas County Economic Development, said "I'd like to extend a warm welcome the entire GeniusCentral Systems team. We're ready to assist them as they expand their workforce and create high-wage careers in Pinellas County."
"We're happy to welcome GeniusCentral to St. Petersburg. They bring a culture of entrepreneurship, innovation and wellness that fits so well with this community and its growth," said Chris Steinocher, President and CEO of the St. Petersburg Area Chamber of Commerce.
"This is another win for our community and we're thrilled to welcome GeniusCentral Systems' corporate headquarters to Pinellas County," said Commissioner John Morroni, Chairman of the Pinellas County Board of County Commissioners. "An innovative technology leader, like GeniusCentral, could choose to locate anywhere, but the strength of our Pinellas workforce and the warmth of our diverse community make Pinellas the ideal location for growing technology companies."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/26/gov-scott-announces-40-new-jobs-at-geniuscentral-systems/
