Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces 30 New Jobs at Envera Systems in Sarasota
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 25, 2015
Location: Sarasota, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Envera Systems, which provides electronic security monitoring for communities, will expand operations in Florida creating 30 new jobs and making a capital investment of $604,000 in the Sarasota community.
Governor Scott said, "Florida businesses have created more than 801,000 private sector jobs since December 2010 and the addition of new jobs at Envera Systems means even more opportunities for Florida families. Every new job helps families have the chance to live their dreams in Florida, and we will keep working until every Floridian who wants a job can get one."
Envera's state-of-the-art central station operates 24 hours a day/365 days a year, protecting residents and visitors at Envera protected communities. The company has experienced significant growth each year for the past several years and currently employs more than 100 people.
"Sarasota's ideal location on the Gulf Coast allows us to remain close to our ever-growing Southwest Florida customer base, while also capitalizing on the skilled employee base from Tampa to Fort Myers," said Envera CEO Addi Aloya. "In addition, our existing employees, who have helped grow our business tremendously in the past five years, will benefit from our transition to the new facility, with the promise of a long-term commitment to the Sarasota area and its strong quality of life."
Florida's global connectivity, experienced workforce and favorable business climate make Florida the ideal location for many of the nation's leading financial and professional services companies. Florida's 112,000 financial and professional firms employ around 850,000 Floridians today, and our state has the second highest number of professional, scientific and technical services companies and the third largest finance and insurance cluster in the world.
Enterprise Florida CEO and president Bill Johnson said, "With Envera's commitment to create 30 jobs we are strengthening Florida's financial and professional services sector. Governor Scott's leadership has helped Florida create a more competitive tax climate, and an overall better environment for business to grow and create more opportunities."
This project was made possible by the close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, Sarasota County Commission and the Sarasota County Economic Development Corporation.
Jesse Panuccio, Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director, said, "Envera System's expansion is more evidence that Florida is solidifying its place as a new hub for STEM business. The expansion is part of strong job growth in Sarasota County over the last few years. This growth is fostered by Florida's low-tax, business friendly policies."
"Envera shows that Sarasota County is a great place for tech companies to grow and prosper," said County Commission Chairwoman Carolyn Mason. "We're happy to help them in that effort."
"We are thrilled Envera will be staying and expanding in Sarasota County," said Mark Huey, President and CEO of the Economic Development Corporation of Sarasota County. "Envera represents the kind of technology company with high growth and good-paying jobs that supports Sarasota County's commitment to diversify our economy."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/25/gov-scott-announces-30-new-jobs-at-envera-systems-in-sarasota/
