Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Awards Tallahassee Businesses with Governor's Business Ambassador Award
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott recognized John Schrowang, president of the Red Elephant Pizza and Grill with the Governor's Business Ambassador Award. The Governor's Business Ambassador Award is given to individuals and business in recognition of their efforts to create jobs and opportunities for Florida families.
Governor Scott said, "I am proud to award Red Elephant's President John Schrowang with the Governor's Business Ambassador Award for creating opportunities for families in Florida. Since December 2010, Florida has added more than 801,000 private sector jobs, and small businesses like the Red Elephant have played a big role in that growth. John and his family are a great example of how hard work and determination can lead to achieving the American Dream in Florida."
The Red Elephant President John Schrowang fulfilled his life-long dream of owning a family-friendly restaurant in November 2006, when he opened his first location in Tallahassee. During the first few months, John worked 97 straight days, his wife Melanie rolled silverware, and his triplet sons and daughter bused tables. Just six months later, they opened their second location in Tallahassee. The Red Elephant began with 60 employees, and today it has grown to seven locations in two different states with over 400 employees.
John Schrowang, Red Elephant Pizza President, said, "I am proud to accept the Governor's Business Ambassador Award on behalf of our entire team at the Red Elephant. Our dream was to create a place that offered great food, but even more importantly, a place where people could recharge and reconnect. We are honored to be able to share our success with our fellow Floridians by creating jobs opportunities, and we look forward to our future growth."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/24/governor-rick-scott-awards-tallahassee-businesses-with-governors-business-ambassador-award/
