Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Presents Shine Awards to Four Outstanding Florida Educators
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, during a meeting of Florida's Cabinet, Governor Rick Scott presented Governor's Shine Awards to four outstanding teachers from around the state for their commitment to Florida's students. The Governor's Shine Award is presented to Florida educators and administrators who make significant contributions to the field of education.
Governor Rick Scott said, "Each day, teachers are helping Florida's students reach their fullest potential as they embark on their journey toward college and successful careers. I am proud to present the Shine Award to these teachers in recognition of their dedication to going above and beyond to make a difference for our students."
Allison Gamblin, Citrus County, Crystal River Primary School -- Allison Gamblin has been teaching for five years, and is currently teaching fifth grade in Crystal River.
Allison believes that teaching is her calling and she works hard to create lessons that match each child's learning styles and interests. She strives to make a difference in all of her students' lives, and helps students succeed though classroom management and small groups. Allison sets high expectations for her students and enjoys seeing them suceed each day.
Allyson Howell, Calhoun County, Blountstown High School -- Allyson Howell has been teaching for 20 years, and currently teaches math at Blountstown High School. She was recently selected as the Calhoun County School District's Teacher of the Year. Over the past 15 years at Blountstown High School, Allyson has also taught two dual enrollment courses- pre-calculus and trigonometry. Two years ago, she was recruited to teach the same courses via distance learning for Altha School and Liberty County High School. She serves as the sponsor of the Senior Class and National Honor Society, and is the school's math coach.
Vickie Plant, Jackson County, Golson Elementary School -- Vickie Plant has been teaching kindergarten for 11 years, nine of which have been in Jackson County at Golson Elementary. She has a strong desire to instill a love of learning in all children and to see them be successful in building the foundations of their education. Vickie enjoys being a leader in her school and district, and has done so through various experiences, including hosting teachers from surrounding school districts, serving on the International Literacy Association, and being a member of the Florida Council of Teachers of Mathematics.
Christy Russel, Gilchrist County, Trenton Elementary School -- Christy Russel is a kindergarten teacher at Trenton Elementary and was recently recognized as Gilchrist County's District Teacher of the Year. She is described by her peers as an energetic, motivating and outstanding teacher whose impact reaches far beyond the walls of her classroom. Christy sees the potential in every student, and constantly searches for innovative ways to reach each student in her classroom. Christy also strives to help parents understand how their child is progressing in their education.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/24/governor-rick-scott-presents-shine-awards-to-four-outstanding-florida-educators/
