Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces 115 Jobs at Gateway One Lending & Finance in Tampa
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 23, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Gateway One Lending & Finance (Gateway One), a subsidiary of TCF National Bank and an indirect subsidiary of TCF Financial Corporation (NYSE:TCB), has opened a new auto lending service center that will create up to 115 jobs and provide a $675,000 capital investment in the community.
Governor Scott said, "Florida is on a mission to be the number one state in the nation for job creation and opportunity, and we are excited to announce Gateway One's creation of 115 jobs in Tampa Bay. Our state's job creators like Gateway One have created over 801,000 jobs in a little over four years, and we will keep working until we accomplish our goal of being the global destination for job creation.
"Gateway One has experienced tremendous growth during the past several years and the addition of this new facility in Tampa gives us the scale and efficiency needed to serve the needs of our national auto lending business," said Brian MacInnis, CEO of Gateway One Lending & Finance. "We were drawn to Tampa's impressive roster of leading businesses, strong footprint in the financial industry and its skilled financial services workforce -- all of which are needed to support our business."
Florida is home to more than 126,000 financial and professional services companies that employ around 864,000 workers at locations around the state. Most of the nation's leading financial companies have established large operations in Florida. Florida has many advantages to offer financial and professional services companies, including its global connectivity, experienced workforce and favorable business climate.
Bill Johnson, Enterprise Florida president and CEO, said, "Thanks to Governor Scott's leadership Florida has become a more competitive business state, and EFI has been able to establish record numbers of jobs and projects. Companies like Gateway One are proof that our pro-business policies are working. Florida's financial sector will continue to grow thanks to companies that continue to succeed in Florida."
This project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, Hillsborough County, and the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation.
Jesse Panuccio, Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director, said, "Governor Scott has worked hard to make Florida the perfect climate for business, and with the help of the administration's pro-growth, business-friendly policies, Gateway One will thrive. The 115 new jobs that Gateway One will create in the Tampa area are a win for local families."
"With this announcement, Hillsborough County is further strengthening its position as one of the top locations in the country for financial and professional services firms," said the Hon. Sandy Murman, Chair of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners. "Gateway One Lending & Finance joins an impressive list of companies that have made the decision to establish or expand financial services operations in our community."
"Gateway One Lending & Finance had a number of options of where to locate its new facility but ultimately chose Hillsborough County because of our exceptional labor market," said Dr. Ronald Vaughn, Chair of the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation and President of the University of Tampa. "Our academic institutions have collaborated over the years to create interdisciplinary curricula in response to feedback from local financial services employers. Those collective efforts are now paying off, providing those firms with highly skilled, diverse, and often multi-lingual graduates. We appreciate TCF's and Gateway One's investment in Hillsborough County and welcome them to our community."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/23/gov-scott-announces-115-jobs-at-gateway-one-lending-finance-in-tampa/
