Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Kicks Off "Cut My Taxes Week"
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 23, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott will kick off "Cut My Taxes Week" on Tuesday, March 24th at the Florida State Capitol. A booth will be set up at the Plaza Level Rotunda from Tuesday through Thursday from 8:00am -- 3:00pm where Floridians can bring their bills and use the tax cut calculator to see their savings with the Governor's proposed cell phone and TV tax cut. Governor Scott will be at the booth on Tuesday, March 24 and Wednesday, March 25. In celebration of Gator Day at the Capitol, University of Florida President Dr. Fuchs and Albert and Alberta will join Governor Scott at the booth on Tuesday. FSU President John Thrasher and Coach Jimbo Fisher will join Governor Scott at the booth on Wednesday.
Governor Scott said, "Florida families know how to spend their hard earned money better than government can. In the last four years, we have cut taxes more than forty times and reduced state debt by $7.5 billion. This year, Florida has a $1.8 billion surplus and we have the resources available to continue to cut $673 million in tax cuts, including our proposal to cut the cell phone and TV tax. Every Florida family will be able to get back real money back with our cell phone and TV tax cut -- saving every Florida family around $43 a year for spending as little as $100 a month between cell phone, cable and satellite bills. I look forward to meeting Floridians at our booth this week to talk to them about the savings they will see with our proposed tax cut."
In his 2015 "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" budget, Governor Scott has proposed cutting $673 million in tax cuts for Floridians. The biggest portion of Governor Scott's proposal includes cutting the tax that families and businesses pay for their cell phone and TV services. Currently, Florida families pay a state cell phone and TV tax rate of 9.17 percent on nonresidential landlines, cell phone, and cable services, and 13.17 percent on satellite services.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/23/governor-rick-scott-kicks-off-cut-my-taxes-week/
