Public Statements
Gov. Scott Attends Full Sail University's Launch of REBL HQ
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 20, 2015
Location: Winter Park, FL

Governor Rick Scott today joined Full Sail University and Maker Studios, a producer of short-form video and the largest content network on YouTube, for the ribbon cutting of REBL HQ, Full Sail University's new digital entertainment studio. Full Sail also announced their collaboration with Maker Studios to produce premium programming, and to develop and launch an online video creator curriculum.
Governor Rick Scott said, "The REBL HQ will provide Full Sail students with hands-on industry experience so they can find a great job after graduation. Full Sail University is laser focused on preparing students for the jobs of the 21st century, and I was proud to attend today's ribbon cutting of REBL HQ. I look forward to seeing Full Sail's success as they continue to create new opportunities for their students."
Located in a brand-new facility that houses state-of-the-art video soundstages, REBL HQ will provide students with real-world opportunities to participate with professional productions, as well as study development, production and distribution for online short-form video. REBL HQ will also create content across various genres and serve as an innovation hub for the evolving world of online video delivery systems, production techniques and storytelling.
Garry Jones, President of Full Sail University, said, "Full Sail consistently works alongside entertainment industry leaders to create, mold and evolve pioneering curriculum and opportunities for our students. In addition to the exciting productions that will occur within REBL HQ, we know we have aligned with the industry leader in short-form content and look forward to the collaboration and educational opportunities that result with Maker."
Erin McPherson, Chief Content Officer of Maker Studios, said, "Maker is always looking for new ways to help creative people develop their skills and grow audience to their full potential. We want to empower students with the proper skills to become a successful part of the digital content ecosystem. We're excited to produce programming with REBL HQ as well as share our expertise with Full Sail students."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/20/gov-scott-attends-full-sail-universitys-launch-of-rebl-hq/
