Public Statements
Issue Position: Fighting for Florida Jobs
Issue Position
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 1, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Scott ran on a mission to turn Florida's economy around and while Florida has added more than 1.2 million jobs in just six years, he will keep fighting for jobs until his last day in office.
Supporting Job Growth in Florida
Governor Scott knows that when businesses succeed, jobs are created and generations of Floridians benefit from being able to provide for their families. That is why the Governor is continuing his hard work to secure a bright future for Florida by diversifying the economy and supporting business through low taxes and a smart regulatory structure. Today, Florida is well positioned for continued growth which helps Florida's poorest families by providing even more opportunities to get a great job. However, there is still more to be done to ensure that future generations of Floridians live in a state that provides boundless opportunities for success.
The Fighting for Florida's Future budget recommends $85 million for economic incentives for the sole purpose of bringing more jobs to Florida. This essential funding is provided for economic development incentives such as the Quick Action Closing Fund, the Qualified Targeted Industry Tax Refund, Defense Contractor Tax Refund and Brownfield Redevelopment Tax Refund. A key component of this funding is the flexibility to react quickly to economic opportunities, which will enhance business retention and job creation.
Additionally, the Fighting for Florida's Future budget invests approximately $119 million for Florida's economic development public -private partnerships, including $76 million in marketing dollars for VISIT Florida, $19.5 million for operations and job creation funding for Space Florida and $23.5 million for the operations of Enterprise Florida.
Governor Scott also knows that the state's economic development public-private partnerships must do everything they can to make sure every tax dollar under their purview is spent wisely and with full transparency. The Governor has already requested these organizations to increase their level of financial disclosure similar to what is required of Florida's state agencies. Governor Scott will also work with the Legislature this year to pass comprehensive legislation that will require full financial accountability to Florida's taxpayers, including detailed online disclosure of spending, contracts, financial reports, and project performance information.
















Source:
