Public Statements
Governor Scott Proclaims March 16-20th Down Syndrome Awareness Week
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 16, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today issued a proclamation declaring Down Syndrome Awareness Week in Florida from March 16-20th. Florida will be joining New Jersey's 2015 Light the Way campaign this week, and the Florida Governor's Mansion will be lit blue on the evening of Saturday, March 21, 2015 in recognition of Down syndrome cognitive research.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We are proud to join Floridians across the state in recognizing Down Syndrome Awareness Week. Individuals with Down syndrome are active participants in Florida businesses and communities, and deserve every opportunity to find a great job and have their shot at the American Dream. We will keep working everyday to provide these individuals with the support they need, and to increase opportunities for every person in Florida."
First Lady Ann Scott said, "Down Syndrome Awareness Week serves as an important opportunity to recognize our family, friends and community members with Down syndrome. I am honored to join New Jersey First Lady Mary Pat Christie and First Spouses across the country in this awareness campaign by lighting the Governor's Mansion blue on Saturday in recognition of the many incredible individuals with Down Syndrome and their families."
Florida Senate President Andy Gardiner said "People born with Down Syndrome have many unique abilities and can make a tremendous contribution to Florida's workforce. By expanding career and education opportunities that help individuals with Down Syndrome fine-tune their own unique abilities, we can establish a pathway to economic independence that will help all people with unique abilities have a better quality of life."
Florida House Speaker Steve Crisafulli said, "President Gardiner and I are committed to finding ways for Floridians with Down syndrome to achieve economic independence to better their own lives and the lives of their families. I'm honored to join Governor Scott as we recognize these unique individuals."
Amber Davis Williams, Down Syndrome Association of Tallahassee President, said, "DSAT is very encouraged by the efforts of both Governor Rick Scott and the Florida Legislature to bring awareness of Down syndrome statewide and to create opportunities for individuals with Down syndrome. Our loved ones with Down syndrome are worthy of acceptance and every opportunity for independence the state of Florida has to offer."
This week, families and health-care workers across Florida are encouraged to share their own research, knowledge and experiences with the public in order to raise awareness and encourage further research about one of the world's most common chromosomal conditions, also known as Trisomy 21.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/16/governor-scott-proclaims-march-16-20th-down-syndrome-awareness-week/
