Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces 100 New Jobs at Xcelience in Tampa
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 13, 2015
Location: Tampa, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced the expansion of Xcelience, an international contract development and manufacturing organization that services the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Xcelience will expand product development services and manufacturing operations in Tampa, creating 100 new jobs and retaining another 100 jobs. Xcelience will also invest $9 million in the region as part of the expansion.
Governor Scott said, "We are proud to announce that Xcelience is adding 100 new jobs in Florida because we know that every new job helps a family in our state. We are glad that Xcelience has continued to invest and expand in Florida, and it is announcements like this that are helping our state become the global destination for jobs."
In addition to expanding manufacturing operations, Xcelience will expand its pharmaceutical development labs in a new Tampa location to support future company growth. The positions will include staff for pharmaceutical development, manufacturing, quality assurance and packaging.
Derek Hennecke, President & CEO, Xcelience said, "Tampa is a great place to build a base of scientific capabilities. The warm climate attracts a stable workforce, and the government at all levels is eager to help us grow and prosper. Our location puts us just a mile from the airport, making it easy for out of state clients to find us. Exciting things are coming down the pipeline, for Tampa, for Xcelience, and the exciting new medical treatments we are developing with our clients."
Florida's manufacturing sector ranks among the top 10 nationally with more than 18,200 companies employing some 317,000 people statewide. In 2014 the sales tax on manufacturing equipment was temporarily eliminated, and this year Governor Scott is working with the Florida Legislature to permanently eliminate it. Also, Florida has established itself as a premier location for life science clusters, and is home to world-renowned biomedical research institutes and nearly 1,000 biotech, pharmaceutical and medical device companies.
"Xcelience's expansion of their global headquarters here is a testament to Tampa as a top life sciences and manufacturing destination," said City of Tampa Mayor Bob Buckhorn. "The word is out about our city as a great place for science and technology professionals to live, work and play -- and that excitement is driving the growth of key innovation sectors."
Enterprise Florida president & CEO Bill Johnson said, "Today we celebrate Xcelience's expansion in the state of Florida, and applaud their creation of 100 jobs. Florida has become a well-known destination for both manufacturing and life sciences companies, and the pro-business climate here will allow the state to become even more competitive."
This project was made possible by the close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, CareerSource Florida and the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Xcelience's expansion is another positive chapter in Tampa's economic turnaround the last few years. The Scott administration will continue to support pro-growth policies that help the manufacturing and biotech sectors thrive in Florida. Successes such as these move us closer to our goal of making Florida the best state in which to live, learn, pursue a career, and start or grow a business."
"Successful companies such as Xcelience know their current and future competitiveness in the global marketplace is linked to their ability to maintain a highly skilled workforce," said CareerSource Florida President and CEO Chris Hart IV. "The training funds we are providing from CareerSource will help ensure employees at this expanding biotech business have the right skills at the right time to prosper."
"Hillsborough County offers the workforce talent, lifestyle, and culture of innovation that global companies like Xcelience need to thrive," said the Hon. Sandy Murman, Chair of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners. "We are committed to supporting their growth and appreciate their investment in our community."
"Xcelience is another prime example of a locally headquartered company with a global reputation whose growth is helping to shape Hillsborough County's economic future," said Rick Homans, President & CEO of the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation. "The strength and diversity of our manufacturing, life sciences, and technology sectors are attracting more world class companies and talent to Tampa each year."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/13/gov-scott-announces-100-new-jobs-at-xcelience-in-tampa/
