Public Statements
FLORIDA JOB DEMAND REACHES ALL-TIME HIGH IN FEBRUARY
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 9, 2015
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Governor Rick Scott today announced that the number of online job openings in Florida reached an all-time high in February 2015 with a total of 292,249 openings (seasonally adjusted), according to data released by The Conference Board's Help Wanted OnLine. Also in February, Florida's consumer sentiment index was 94.7, up from the January 2015 index of 93.1. This is the highest level ever since November 2006 and is the seventh consecutive month of increases.
Governor Scott said, "Every new job represents an opportunity to achieve the dream of America, and this record high job demand is great news for Florida families. Florida is on a mission to beat Texas as the number one state for job creation, and today's news puts us closer to that goal. We will keep working every day to build an environment that encourages growth so Florida can become the global destination for jobs."
Job demand in Florida increased over the month by 13,005 openings, up 4.7 percent, and also increased over the year by 22,628 openings, up 8.4 percent. Major occupational groups with the most online ads in February were healthcare practitioners and technical occupations, sales and related occupations, office and administrative support occupations, and computer and mathematical occupations.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "Florida's economic climate continues to brighten, with another record month of job demand and increased consumer confidence. These trends show that pro-growth policies make a difference and are helping to grow an opportunity economy in Florida."
February's consumer sentiment is up to 94.7. The Florida Consumer Sentiment Index is calculated by the Bureau of Economic and Business Research at the University of Florida and measures five key indicators of consumers' feelings about the economy. Indicators include one's personal financial situation compared to a year ago, personal financial situation expected one year from now, expected national economic conditions over the next year, expected national economic conditions over the next five years, and whether it is a good time to buy major household items.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/09/florida-job-demand-reaches-all-time-high-in-february/
