Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces ReliaQuest to Expand Tampa Headquarters
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 6, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that ReliaQuest, a leading provider of information technology security solutions and professional services, will expand their Tampa operations, creating up to 55 new information technology jobs at their corporate headquarters.
Governor Scott said, "Every new job puts us closer to our goal of becoming the number one state for job creation, and we are proud to announce that ReliaQuest will expand their operations and create up to 55 new jobs for Tampa Bay families. While ReliaQuest considered other states, they ultimately chose Florida as the best place to expand their business and create new jobs. We will keep working to attract more companies to our state so Florida can become the global destination for jobs."
This expansion will create positions to fill a variety of key roles for ReliaQuest's 24/7/365 security operating center, which provides managed and co-managed security solutions for its customers.
"Our rapid growth and the demand for our managed and co-managed IT security services caused us to seriously consider relocating the new ReliaQuest SOC in Tampa to an area more central to our entire North American customer base," said Brian Murphy, President and CEO of ReliaQuest. "We are committed to expanding our base of operations in Tampa and helping to highlight this region as one of the top information technology sector destinations in the United States. The support we have received from the city, county, and state has been tremendous, and will greatly enhance our ability to attract and retain the world class talent our organization needs to thrive here."
Florida ranks third for high-tech establishments, and is also the third largest exporter of high-tech products in the nation. The state's IT strengths include diverse and growing sectors and some 25,000 IT companies, which employ nearly 250,000 professionals. Florida offers support structures for the full life-cycle of IT firms, allowing companies to start, succeed and expand in the Sunshine State.
"ReliaQuest had offers from at least three other states and the encouragement of several of their top clients to relocate, but they chose to stay and create more jobs here in Tampa," said Tampa Mayor Bob Buckhorn. "Our high tech workforce is as competitive as that of any other city in the country. They understand that, and that's why they are committed to growing their business in Tampa."
Bill Johnson, Secretary of Commerce and Enterprise Florida president and CEO said, "Florida offers a competitive, pro-business environment with a favorable tax structure and a superior quality of life, meaning companies can grow and create opportunities. We congratulate ReliaQuest on their expansion and thank them for choosing to continue their growth in Florida."
The project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Development, the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation, Hillsborough County, and the City of Tampa.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "The expansion of ReliaQuest in Tampa is an exciting new chapter for this Florida company and we are thrilled that they will continue their investment in the state. The creation of these 55 jobs over the next three years will benefit families in the area and will reinforce Florida as a leader in STEM-related industries."
"ReliaQuest is an outstanding example of the success that Hillsborough County's innovative technology companies are achieving," said the Hon. Sandy Murman, Chair of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners. "We are proud to support their continued growth and expansion in our community."
"The success of ReliaQuest is a testament to the vibrant entrepreneurial culture we have in Tampa and Hillsborough County," said Ronald Vaughn, Chair of the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation and President of the University of Tampa. "ReliaQuest was able to grow from a two-person start-up to a leader in its field in less than a decade because it was able to attract and retain exceptional talent here. This expansion demonstrates the commitment we and our state and local partners have made to help our existing businesses grow and prosper in Hillsborough County."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/06/gov-scott-announces-reliaquest-to-expand-tampa-headquarters/
