Public Statements
Gov. Scott Highlights Continued Job Growth at Jagged Peak in St. Petersburg
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: St. Petersburg, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted the continued success of Jagged Peak, an ecommerce company founded in Tampa in 2000. Jagged Peak has created 158 jobs for Florida families, including 35 new jobs in the last four years.
Governor Rick Scott said, "We know that every job impacts a family and helps shape our future, and we are proud to recognize Florida companies for their work to create opportunities across the state. In the last four years, 35 more Floridians were able to find a job and provide for their families thanks to the growth of Jagged Peak. We want Florida to become the global destination for jobs, and we will keep working to provide companies like Jagged Peak with the environment to grow and succeed in our state."
Paul Demirdjian, CEO of Jagged Peak, said, "Jagged Peak is proud to be located in Tampa Bay, one of the most vibrant technology communities in the Southeast, and we are excited that our continued success has allowed us to grow and create job opportunities for so many Floridians. For more than a decade, we have been dedicated to providing our clients with the best ecommerce solutions and supply chain services available, and our hard work has earned us the respect and repeat business of leading brands from around the world. We are thankful to Governor Scott for his ongoing commitment to improving Florida's business climate, and we look forward to many more years of success here at Jagged Peak."
Founded in 2000 in Florida, Tampa Bay provided Jagged Peak with a gateway to international markets and a rich talent pool, which greatly helped the company grow. Jagged Peak provides companies across the world with outsourced e-commerce software and services to help reach their customers. Today, Jagged Peak has three locations in Tampa and Saint Petersburg, with their most recent location opening last year. Last year Jagged Peak also invested $2.9 million in Florida in 2014.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/03/05/gov-scott-highlights-continued-job-growth-at-jagged-peak-in-st-petersburg/
