Public Statements
Governor Scott Highlights 130 New Jobs at Rick Case Automotive Group
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 27, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Scott highlighted Rick Case Automotive Group's new corporate headquarters, as well as their new dealership in Sunrise. The new corporate headquarters and dealership will create 130 new jobs in South Florida.
Governor Scott said, "I am proud to attend Rick Case Automotive Group's expansion announcement in South Florida, that the company will create 130 new jobs. Rick and his wife Rita have grown their small business into one of the largest car dealerships in the country, and their continued growth in Florida has provided great opportunities for families in our state. It is Florida businesses like this that are helping our state become the global destination for jobs."
Rick Case said, "We are very excited to be opening new dealerships and creating new jobs here in South Florida. As we open new dealerships here in Florida, and grow our dealerships in other states, we found it necessary to increase our corporate staff. By doing that, we needed to build a much larger national office to accommodate the additional employees all in one office here in Sunrise, Florida. We really appreciate the Governor's ongoing commitment to create more jobs, which means more car sales for us, which in turn helps us create even more jobs."
Founded in 1962 in Akron, Ohio and relocated to Plantation Florida in 1986, the Rick Case Automotive Group is owned and operated Rita and Rick Case. With 15 dealerships in Florida, Georgia and Ohio, the Rick Case Automotive Group offers Acura, Audi, Hyundai, Volkswagen, Kia, Mazda, FIAT, Alfa Romeo and Honda Automobiles & Motorcycles, including the World's Largest Honda, Hyundai, Kia and Volkswagen dealerships located in Broward County, Florida. They currently employ over 1,000 team members.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/02/27/governor-scott-highlights-130-new-jobs-at-rick-case-automotive-group/
