Public Statements
Governor Scott Presents More Than $124 Million in School Recognition Awards
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 25, 2015
Location: Miami, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced the distribution of more than $124 million in School Recognition Program funding this year to Florida's high performing schools across the state. Over 1,500 schools will receive the financial awards based on sustained or significantly improved student achievement.
Governor Scott said, "Florida's teachers and schools prepare our students to pursue a college degree or excel at a great career when they graduate. It's important to continue to provide our teachers and schools the resources they need to ensure our students are successful in the classroom. That is why I am excited to award more than $124 million in school recognition awards to help recognize schools for their success and help increase student achievement. During this year's legislative session, we will continue to invest in our K-12 classrooms by proposing record per-student funding."
Commissioner Stewart said, "The School Recognition Program award allows us to honor the schools that have been successful in improving student achievement. I am so appreciative of the hard work that Florida teachers contribute every day to ensure students are prepared for college, a career and life."
Schools eligible for recognition awards include those receiving an "A" school grade, improving at least one letter grade from the previous year, or improving more than one letter grade and sustaining the improvement the following school year. Alternative schools that increase their school improvement rating or are rated "Improving" also qualify for awards.
The school staff and school advisory council at each recognized school jointly decide how to use the financial award. Schools may use their award for faculty or staff bonuses, to purchase educational equipment or materials, or hire temporary staff to help maintain or improve student performance.
As part of his 2015-16 "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" budget, Governor Scott has requested a record $19.75 billion in K-12 education funding, an increase of $261 per student over this year and $50 per student over the previous record in 2007-08.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/02/25/governor-scott-presents-more-than-124-million-in-school-recognition-awards-2/
