Public Statements
Governor Scott Hosts Teacher of the Year Summit
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today launched his annual Teacher of the Year Summit, bringing the state's top teachers to the Capitol for a two-day workshop and celebration. Nearly 50 teachers of the year are participating in this year's summit.
Governor Scott said, "We know a great job starts with a great education, and everyday Florida teachers are helping our students prepare for college and careers. Florida has made great strides in improving the quality of education for our students and we are committed to doing all we can to continue to build on that success. I am honored to host the Teacher of the Year Summit again and I look forward to learning more from our teachers as we work together to make our education system the best in the nation."
The District Teachers of the Year will join Governor Scott and Education Commissioner Pam Stewart for a summit that will provide a forum for Florida's best teachers to share ideas and suggestions that will help improve Florida's public school system. The two-day event includes workshops, professional learning activities, a roundtable discussion with Governor Scott, and opportunities for teachers to learn and share with their colleagues.
"Florida's educators are the foundation of our state's education system," said Commissioner Stewart. "This is a great opportunity for our Teachers of the Year to share their thoughts and experiences about education in the Sunshine State. We all share the same commitment to ensuring every student is poised for success in college, career or in life."
Governor Scott's 2015-16 "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING" Budget proposes increasing the state's per-pupil funding to a historic level. In addition, the budget includes additional funding for district and state teacher of the year recipients. If approved, district teachers of the year would receive $10,000; state finalists would receive $15,000, and the statewide winner would receive $20,000.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/02/24/governor-scott-hosts-teacher-of-the-year-summit/
