Public Statements
Governor Scott: We Must Reduce Testing in Florida Schools
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 18, 2015
Location: Unknown

Today, upon completing a testing investigation requested by Governor Rick Scott, Education Commissioner Pam Stewart recommended a reduction in the number of tests Florida students in public schools are required to take.
Governor Rick Scott said, "A quality education prepares students to succeed in college or a career so they can pursue their dreams. It's important to measure students' progress and achievements, but we must not lose sight of our goal to provide every student with the very best education. As I have traveled the state, I have heard from parents and teachers that there are too many tests and I agree. I would like to thank Commissioner Stewart for leading an investigation of standardized testing and helping to determine which tests can be eliminated. I look forward to working with the Legislature to implement the Commissioner's recommendations and reduce the number of tests this year."
The investigation conducted by the Commissioner included: a comprehensive inspection of district-level assessments to better understand the number, frequency, and purpose; and an evaluation to determine whether the local assessment was already assessed by a statewide, standardized assessment.
Education Commissioner Pam Stewart said, "We worked closely with each school district to understand how many standardized tests are currently being administered. I appreciate that our state's school districts took the time to provide the department with detailed information regarding the tests their students are taking. There is, without a doubt, an excess of testing in Florida schools, and I look forward to working with Governor Scott and the Legislature to ensure we strike the appropriate balance between accountability and instruction."
Senate President Andy Gardiner said, "My Senate colleagues and I share Governor Scott's belief that we can effectively measure student learning through fewer and better tests. As we head towards the start of session, we look forward to a continued dialogue with Governor Scott as well as the parents, teachers and students across Florida who have played a role in this important discussion."
Speaker of the House Steve Crisafulli said, "Governor Scott has shown tremendous leadership on the issue of testing and accountability. Our shared goal is to ensure that our students receive a high quality education to prepare them for their futures. These recommendations will be carefully reviewed and considered by the House. I know our members have already embraced many of these ideas for the upcoming Session."
Florida has a strong, established statewide, standardized testing program that measures student progress and provides useful information to educators and parents. During the course of the Commissioner's investigation, the department identified several opportunities where the state requirements should be reduced.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/02/18/governor-scott-we-must-reduce-testing-in-florida-schools/
