Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Breaks Ground on I-4 Ultimate Project
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 17, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today participated in a groundbreaking ceremony for the $2.3 billion I-4 Ultimate project, which will rebuild Interstate 4 through metro-Orlando. Governor Scott broke ground on the project at the Maitland Interchange, and the project will rebuild 21 miles of I-4 from Kirkman Road in Orange County to just east of State Road 434 in Seminole County, adding two new tolled Express Lanes in each direction, replacing more than 140 bridges, reconfiguring 15 major interchanges and reconstructing the entire existing roadway. The use of a public-private partnership for the I-4 Ultimate project will help deliver these improvements nearly 20 years sooner than using conventional methods. With roughly 1.5 million daily trips on I-4, the I-4 Ultimate project will greatly reduce congestion for travelers.
Governor Scott said, "Today, I'm proud to announce that we have broken ground on the I-4 Ultimate project, a $2.3 billion investment that will dramatically improve and expand the I-4 corridor in the Orlando area. The I-4 Ultimate project will reduce congestion while continuing to make our roadways better, safer and easier for Florida families and our visitors. Transportation projects like this will encourage people and businesses from around the world to move to our state and keep us on a path to become the global leader in job creation."
The I-4 Mobility Partners team has been selected to design, build, finance, operate and maintain the project through a public-private partnership concession agreement. FDOT is advancing this project on an expedited basis. The I-4 Ultimate could see nearly 2,000 people working on the project, including engineers and designers behind the scenes. The project is also expected to benefit businesses and workers supporting the project, such as construction material suppliers and manufacturers.
In the coming weeks and months, motorists will see work along the corridor beginning to take shape. Project completion is expected in 2021.
FDOT Secretary Jim Boxold said, "I appreciate the leadership of Governor Scott and the legislature for moving this signature project forward. The department will work around-the-clock to ensure that we do all we can to lessen the impact of this major reconstruction project on the traveling public."
Senate President Andy Gardiner said, "The Orlando area is an international destination. This project improves mobility and safety for the millions of people who visit the region every year. It also brings jobs and enhances the local economy."
House Speaker Steve Crisafulli said, "The I-4 Ultimate will provide critical infrastructure that will enable us to continue to expand our business development, cultivate growth, and create jobs. This is a big step forward for Central Florida."
Senator Jack Latvala said, "I am encouraged to see Florida is growing again. Projects like these keep up the momentum and benefit Florida families and visitors."
Senator Jeff Brandes said, "This is one of the most exciting projects in the state of Florida today," stated Senator Brandes. "This project in Orlando has a positive reach that will be felt statewide."
Senator Kelli Stargel said, "These improvements along I-4 will serve all of Florida and benefit the entire I-4 corridor and our economy as a whole. As a Senator who spends many hours driving on I-4, I'm looking forward to these needed improvements."
Representative Patrick Rooney said, "I know that as transportation goes, so does the regional and state economy. This major project along I-4 benefits economic development regionally and statewide."
Representative Robert Cortes said, "This critical infrastructure project will spur economic development and create thousands of jobs in central Florida and beyond. This project will also improve the region's entire transportation system, helping move people, freight, and services in a more efficient manner."
Representative Tom Goodson said, "Major projects like this one are job creators; improving business prospects and the quality of life for residents and visitors."
Representative Mike Miller said, "Transportation is the economic engine that fuels Florida's economy. As a public private partnership, the I-4 Ultimate project will save hardworking taxpayers' dollars while delivering the project nearly two decades sooner than could otherwise be expected."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/02/17/governor-rick-scott-breaks-ground-on-i-4-ultimate-project/
