Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott and First Lady Ann Scott Announce 2015 Black History Month Student and Teacher Contest Winners
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 16, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott and First Lady Ann Scott today announced the 2015 Black History Month student and teacher contests winners. The winners will be honored tonight during the Black History Month reception at the Governor's mansion. The reception celebrates the contributions African-American community leaders, educators and students make to Florida's communities, culture and history.
Governor Scott said, "Each year, Black History Month signifies a time to celebrate our nation's rich and diverse culture, and recognize the great African American leaders who have helped define freedom and equality. Their influence has made an incredible impact on Florida's heritage, and contributed to making our state the best place to live, work, and raise a family. I applaud the Florida teachers and students who participated in this year's contests and learned more about African American history."
First Lady Ann Scott said, "We are very excited to recognize the Florida K-12 students who participated in the 2015 Black History Month art and essay contests. I have traveled across our beautiful state, and have had many opportunities to visit elementary, middle, and high schools. Education is very close to my heart, and the creativity of Florida's students and teachers is a constant inspiration. Thank you to all who have participated in this month's celebration of African American heritage, and helped to preserve its significance."
Lt. Governor Carlos Lopez-Cantera said, "Florida's cultural heritage has been shaped in large part by the contributions of African American leaders. I hope that all Floridians take the time to recognize the significance of Black History Month, and the many contributions of the African American community in Florida."
The 2015 Black History Month featured artist is George Miller, II. Miller's artwork advocates for the education and well-being of children. He is a self-taught artist and his work has been commissioned by numerous child advocacy organizations across the country. Miller's studio is based in Jacksonville, Florida.

Source:
