Public Statements
Governor Scott to Lead Domestic Mission Trip to Philadelphia from February 23-24
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 12, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today announced February 23-24 as the dates he will lead a domestic business development mission to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Governor Scott will meet with job creators and business leaders to discuss why they should move their business to Florida and buy a one-way ticket to the Sunshine State. Accompanying Governor Scott on the economic development mission will be incoming CEO of Enterprise Florida Bill Johnson; VISIT FLORIDA president and CEO Will Seccombe; Department of Economic Opportunity executive director Jesse Panuccio; and Department of Education Commissioner Pam Stewart.
Governor Scott said, "Our goal is to make Florida the number one destination in the world for jobs. Unlike Governor Tom Wolf, we are focused on creating an environment where our families and job creators can succeed. This year we are proposing to cut $673 million in taxes while making record investments in education. I look forward to traveling to Philadelphia in the coming weeks to let businesses and families know that in Florida they will keep more of their hard-earned money in their pockets."
Beginning Monday February 23rd, Governor Scott will be in Philadelphia. At 9:30 AM, Governor Scott will be meeting with prospective companies. At 12 PM, Governor Scott will be having a luncheon with site selectors that facilitate expansion and relocation opportunities. At 2 PM, the Governor will have another round of business development meetings, followed by a reception with prospective companies. On February 24th, Governor Scott will continue economic development meetings before returning to Florida.
While Florida has no individual income tax, Pennsylvania's income tax is 3.07 percent, and Governor Tom Wolf wants to raise it even higher. Additionally, Pennsylvania's corporate income tax is nearly double Florida's. Pennsylvania also has taxes on inheritance and capital stock, neither of which exists in Florida. Overall, Florida's business climate is ranked 5th, while Pennsylvania is ranked 24th by the Tax Foundation. Florida's debt has dropped $7.5 billion since 2010. Florida has a better bond rating according to all three top bond rating agencies, and has less debt per capita than Pennsylvania.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/02/12/governor-scott-to-lead-domestic-mission-trip-to-philadelphia-from-february-23-24/
