Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces Volkswagen To Create 100 Jobs in Jacksonville
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 11, 2015
Location: Jacksonville, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Volkswagen Group of America has chosen JAXPORT as the location of its import facility and Southeastern distribution center. The Jacksonville location will create 100 jobs and a capital investment of $3 million in the region.
Governor Scott said, "We are excited Volkswagen has chosen Florida to create new jobs. Florida's ports are one of the many reasons why companies are choosing our state as the best place to grow their business. That is why our "KEEP FLORIDA WORKING' budget recommends more than $109 million in seaport infrastructure improvements so Florida can keep working to provide the resources companies like Volkswagen need to succeed in our great state."
Volkswagen Group of America will move their import facility for cars and SUVs and its Southeast U.S. distribution operations to Jacksonville. The renovated plant and properties will be used to receive and process factory-new Volkswagen, Audi and Bentley vehicles. Volkswagen, Audi and Bentley expect to transport 100,000 cars within one year, and approximately 550,000 units in the next five years.
"Floridians have demonstrated a strong support for the Volkswagen Group of America brands, and selecting the Port of Jacksonville as our Southeastern U.S. port is part of our growth strategy," said David Geanacopoulos, Executive Vice President for Public Affairs and General Counsel, Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. "In utilizing JAXPORT, we will be able to bring Audi, Bentley and Volkswagen products closer to our Florida customers, and provide enhanced customer service in this key market. We are proud to be joining Governor Scott in making this exciting announcement."
JAXPORT is situated at the crossroads of the nation's rail and highway network. Industry-leading quality control training for workers, fast and efficient turn times, exceptional ocean carrier options and 300,000 square feet of on-site auto processing make JAXPORT the port of choice for thousands of businesses worldwide. JAXPORT is the nation's no. 1 port for vehicle exports.
"This announcement reflects what all of us at JAXPORT already know: our tenants, partners and employees are dedicated to offering creative shipping solutions and unmatched customer service, reinforcing our reputation for vehicle-handling excellence each and every day," said JAXPORT Board Chairman John Falconetti. "Through their unwavering commitment to long term investments in a state-of-the-art seaport and transportation network, Governor Scott and our state leadership give us the tools we need to grow jobs and opportunity."
"On behalf of all of the employees of AMPORTS, I thank Volkswagen for their trust and for this opportunity," said Steve Taylor, President, AMPORTS. "AMPORTS' commitment to quality, efficiency and safety paired with our strong working relationships and reputation throughout the supply chain help make us--and keep us--a leader in the industry."
"Thanks to Governor Scott's support and leadership, Florida is becoming a global hub for trade, and creating the foundation to support jobs and economic prosperity for Floridians," said Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) Secretary Jim Boxold. "The department is pleased to partner with JAXPORT in terminal and waterway improvements that positioned JAXPORT to secure the Volkswagen Group business. Businesses, like Volkswagen Group, bring significant new cargo to our state."
Florida has the second ranked transportation infrastructure in the U.S., making it an ideal location for logistics and distribution for companies like Volkswagen. As the Western Hemisphere's commercial gateway, Florida's logistics and distribution industry is poised to grow further with the Panama Canal expansion in 2016, and continued infrastructure development.
Secretary of Commerce and president & CEO of Enterprise Florida, Gray Swoope, said, "Florida offers easy access to global markets, which makes our state the ideal location for companies looking to import and export goods both nationally and internationally. Florida has a strong infrastructure and large workforce that helps companies succeed. We appreciate Volkswagen's commitment to Florida and look forward to their growth in the state."
Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "The Scott Administration has made historic investments in Florida's ports because we know that strong infrastructure is key to making Florida a global leader in international trade. With this exciting project at JAXPORT, Volkswagen Group of America has chosen the perfect place to expand operations and utilize a growing and talented workforce."
"Volkswagen's decision to expand to Jacksonville shows real confidence in our city and our growing economy. It's proof the city has more and more economic momentum," said Mayor Alvin Brown. "As chair of the U.S. Conference of Mayors Task Force on Ports and Exports, I know that global trade will play an increasing role in our national economy. By leveraging our reputation as a logistics center, we can attract more international trade and bring even more opportunities for our residents and grow our economy."
"This is an exciting announcement for Jacksonville as we continue our push to grow international business in our region," said Mark Frisch, Chair of JAXUSA Partnership. "Volkswagen is a high-profile name in the automotive industry, and we are pleased to see the continued growth of European companies in Northeast Florida, particularly in logistics -- an industry we've strategically targeted for growth. Volkswagen's partnership with AMPORTS, a global leader in the automotive services industry, makes this development another important step in the right direction for Jacksonville."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/02/11/gov-scott-announces-volkswagen-to-create-100-jobs-in-jacksonville/
