Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Medytox to Expand Corporate Headquarters in Palm Beach
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 10, 2015
Location: West Palm Beach, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Medytox Solutions, Inc. will expand its corporate headquarters in West Palm Beach. The expansion will create 60 new jobs, in addition to retaining 40 jobs, and a capital investment of $7 million.
Governor Scott said, "Every job helps shape Florida's future as we continue toward our goal of becoming the top destination for job creation. Medytox Solutions' decision to expand its corporate headquarters in Palm Beach County means more Floridians will be able to find opportunities to provide for their families. Florida businesses have created over 728,000 private-sector jobs in four years, and we will work every day to make Florida the best place to grow business and create jobs."
Medytox Solutions, Inc. is a holding company that owns and operates businesses in the medical services sector. The company's principal line of business is clinical laboratory testing services to physicians, clinics and rehabilitation facilities in the United States.
"Medytox's growth was made possible because of the entrepreneurial spirit of its management team and employees. Our ability to expand in our current Palm Beach County location is an ideal situation that will support future growth. Florida provides a pro-business climate and the resources we need to continue our success," said Seamus Lagan, CEO, Medytox Solutions, Inc.
Life science clusters across the state have allowed Florida to establish itself as a premier location for life sciences innovation and industry growth. Florida is home to world-renowned biomedical research institutes and nearly 1,000 biotech, pharmaceutical and medical device companies. In total, there are more than 44,000 healthcare establishments in Florida.
Secretary of Commerce and president & CEO of Enterprise Florida Gray Swoope said, "All across Florida, we are seeing more innovative life science companies establish and grow. Florida has become a well-known location for life sciences innovation and industry growth. Medytox is a great example of companies that are able to grow in the state, and these 60 jobs are more proof that Florida is a premier business destination."
This project was made possible with the help of close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, West Palm Beach, Palm Beach County and the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "The expansion of Medytox Solutions is exciting news for Floridians, as it will create 60 new, private-sector jobs over the next three years in West Palm Beach. We continue to see growth in the STEM fields as Florida further solidifies its status as a destination for the life science industry."
"Medytox's decision to not only remain in West Palm Beach, but to expand and create 60 additional jobs in our city proves West Palm Beach continues to be the destination of choice for corporate headquarter expansions and relocations," said West Palm Beach Mayor Jeri Muoio. "West Palm Beach continues to be not only open for business, but open to business."
"I'm pleased that Medytox continues to prosper and that it is committed to job growth in Palm Beach County," said Palm Beach County Mayor Priscilla Taylor.
Kelly Smallridge, President and CEO of the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County said, "Medytox is a key player in the area's growing health care and life sciences industry. The company's decision to expand in West Palm Beach signals that they are highly satisfied with the county's educated workforce and strong business climate."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2015/02/10/governor-scott-announces-medytox-to-expand-corporate-headquarters-in-palm-beach/
