Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Expansion of Kellstrom Defense in Miramar
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 16, 2015
Location: Miramar, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced Kellstrom Defense Aerospace, Inc., a Merex Group company, will expand its South Florida operations to the IDI Corporate Park in Miramar. The expansion will create 20 new jobs, in addition to retaining 106 jobs, and make a capital investment of $5.9 million in the Miramar community.
Governor Scott said, "Over the last four years Florida's businesses and the hardworking people of Florida have created more than 700,000 new jobs, and we are excited that companies like Kellstrom Defense continue to grow. These new jobs will give even more Miramar residents the opportunities they need to succeed and provide for their families. We will keep Florida working to grow jobs for all our families so we can become the global leader for job creation."
Florida is already home to more than 2,000 aerospace and aviation companies that employ more than 82,000 Floridians and create an annual payroll impact of more than $5 billion in the state. Florida has long been the world's premier gateway to space, the undisputed air traffic hub of the Western Hemisphere, a major hub for flight training, and maintenance, repair and overhaul, and home to leading manufacturers of all types of aircraft and aircraft components.
Strategically located in the Greater Fort Lauderdale area, Kellstrom Defense has been a leader in providing distribution and program management/supply chain services in the aviation industry since 2001, and is well positioned to manage the Merex Group's respective divisions from the Greater Fort Lauderdale location.
"The investment in our new South Florida facility and the availability of highly trained and experienced aerospace talent in the Greater Fort Lauderdale area supports the business growth we are expecting in the coming years," said Chris Celtruda, CEO for the Merex Group and Kellstrom Defense.

Source:
