Public Statements
Issue Position: Fighting to Cut Fees for Floridians
Issue Position
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 1, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Scott has been fighting to eliminate fees and unnecessary regulations since his first day in office. For every one government job that was eliminated because of increased efficiencies, 177 new private sector jobs have been gained under Governor Scott. Governor Scott's Fighting for Florida's Future budget includes $8.1 million in additional annual fee cuts for Florida's seniors, teachers, veterans and businesses, all while maintaining the quality of services provided. Some of the fee cuts include:
Fee Cuts for Seniors
Waives Fees for Transferring Vehicle Title for Surviving Spouses
Spouses who lose their loved one should not be required to pay the fee to retitle a vehicle. The Fighting for Florida's Future budget proposes waiving the $70.00 retitling fee due to a spouse's death. This is expected to save Floridians $1.6 million annually.
Free Replacement and Renewal ID Cards for Citizens 80 and Over
The Fighting for Florida's Future budget proposes to exempt seniors from paying the $25 fee on renewal or replacement ID cards. This is expected to save Floridians $700,000 annually.
Free Original ID Cards for Citizens 80 and Over Who Surrender Their Driver License
Many senior citizens are forced to or decide to no longer hold a driver license to operate a motor vehicle, yet still need an ID card. The Fighting for Florida's Future budget exempts citizens over the age of 80 from paying the $25 fee who surrender their license. This is expected to save $2.3 million for Florida's seniors.
Fee Cuts for Veterans
Free Veterans Designation on New Identification, Licenses and Renewals
Florida is the most military friendly state in the nation, and having a veteran's designation on an ID or driver license makes accessing some of these advantages easier. The Fighting for Florida's Future budget recommends eliminating the $1 or $2 fee required to get this designation on ID or driver license when either renewing or replacing a license. This is expected to save Florida's veterans about $58,000 annually.
Free Original Commercial Driver's Licenses for Veterans
Governor Scott will continue making Florida the most military and veteran friendly state in the nation by eliminating the $75 fee for veterans who obtain an original commercial driver's license. This is expected to save Florida's veterans about $141,000 annually.
Fee Cuts for Businesses
Reduces All Fees Associated with Commercial Driving Schools by 50%
This will cut the new application fee from $50 to $25, the new issuance fee from $200 to $100, and the annual renewal fee from $100 to $50. This is expected to save Floridian's $25,000 annually.
Reduces Delinquency Fees
Individuals who are late renewing their license must currently pay a separate "delinquency fee" in addition to their renewal fee ranging from $25 to $260. The Fighting for Florida's Future budget recommends reducing delinquency fees to a flat rate of $25, saving licensees $680,000 annually.
Reduces Building Permit Surcharge
Currently, to help fund the enforcement of the Florida Building Code, local builders are required to pay a 1.5% surcharge on building permits. The current surcharge amount creates increased construction costs for consumers. The Fighting for Florida's Future budget will reduce the surcharge amount from 1.5% to 1%, resulting in nearly $2.6 million in annual savings for consumers while still maintaining sufficient funds for code enforcement activities.
Eliminates Sales and Use Tax Registration Fees Using Paper Applications
Many businesses are required to pay sales and use taxes each year. Currently businesses are not required to pay any fee if filed online, however, if filed using paper application they are charged a $5 fee. The Fighting for Florida's Future budget eliminates this $5 fee, saving Florida businesses more than $130,000 annually.

Source: http://fightingforfloridasfuturebudget.com/content/current/Fees.htm
