Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Highlights $3.8 Million for Southeast Florida Rural Roads
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Dec. 11, 2014
Location: Belle Glade, FL

Governor Rick Scott highlighted today the three rural communities in Southeast Florida -- Belle Glade, Pahokee, and South Bay -- that will receive $3.8 million in transportation improvement funds. This funding is part of Governor Scott's Rural Areas of Opportunity program that is designed to help Florida's rural communities continue to grow.
Governor Scott said, "Building and repairing roadways in rural communities is a top priority to help Florida continue to be the world's number one tourist and business destination. This $3.8 million investment will allow our rural communities in Palm Beach County to make important roadway upgrades so they can continue to grow. We are committed to increasing economic activity and job creation across Florida so every family can get a great job and live their dreams in the Sunshine State."
The communities selected for funding, the projects and the award amounts are listed below:
Southeast Florida
South Bay, Palm Beach Co Martin Luther King Blvd/
Palm Beach Rd & Main St $1,416,687
Pahokee, Palm Beach Co East Main Pl $1,374,512
Belle Glade, Palm Beach Co SE Ave G, SW Ave H,
SW 12th St, SE 7th St,
South Canal St,
West Ave A $1,038,834
The funding is an extension of the Small County Outreach Program which FDOT has used to support Florida's rural counties for many years.
FDOT Secretary Ananth Prasad said, "I applaud the leadership of the Governor and Legislature for extending the benefits of this program which demonstrate the great statewide need for projects to maintain roadways in rural areas."
Senator Jack Latvala said, "Today's announcement is great news for citizens and businesses in Florida's rural areas as it will strengthen infrastructure and boost economic opportunities. I commend Governor Scott and all involved for their commitment to invest in Florida's future through transportation enhancements."
Senator Joseph Abruzzo said, "Representing the communities of Belle Glade, South Bay, and Pahokee is a true privilege. It was a pleasure working with Governor Scott, the Florida Department of Transportation, and the Legislature to respond to the critical need for improved infrastructure throughout Florida. Securing this transportation funding is a major triumph; it will provide sustainable solutions by encouraging ease of movement and enriching the overall quality of life for the residents of western Palm Beach County. As the economies of the Western Communities continue emerging and attracting year-round industry, this targeted assistance will provide tangible benefits to some of our most in-need communities."
Representative Kevin Rader said, "This is great news. The funding of these projects reflects the need to improve these roadways in these communities. The projects will provide much needed sidewalks and other safety features for motorists, pedestrians and bicyclists."
The department will work closely with these communities so that work on the selected projects can begin early next year.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/12/11/governor-rick-scott-highlights-3-8-million-for-southeast-florida-rural-roads/
