Public Statements
Florida Ends Year with Consumer Confidence Up and Strengthening Housing Market
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Dec. 30, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Florida's strong economic and job growth is fueling Floridians' consumer confidence and housing market which have both seen success at the end of 2016. Consumer confidence rose nearly seven points in December to 97.2 points, the highest level in 2016. Meanwhile Florida's housing market showed strengthening in November with statewide median sales price for single-family existing homes up 10 percent from the previous year's median price and home sales increasing 12 percent over the last year.
Governor Scott said, "Florida is a great place to live, work and raise a family and people from around the nation know that moving to Florida is a great way to provide new opportunities for their families. As Florida continues to outshine other states with our economic success, growing consumer confidence and strengthening housing market, it is clear that this is truly the best state in the nation to achieve your dreams."
All five components measured in Florida's Consumer Sentiment Index rose in December, including personal finance indicators and expectations of future economic growth.
In November, the metro areas with the highest growth in sales over-the-year were Pensacola at nearly 34 percent, The Villages at 32 percent, Lakeland at 28 percent, Sebastian-Vero Beach at 23 percent, Tampa at nearly 22 percent and Gainesville at 20 percent. In November, 8,240 new building permits were issued in Florida, accounting for 9 percent of new building permits issued nationwide.
Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Cissy Proctor said, "As we end the year, it is great to see Florida building upon our economic success with growing consumer confidence and a strong housing market. By making the investments we need to attract jobs and keeping taxes low, Florida families are able to live their dreams here in our state."

Source:
