Public Statements
NFWF Announces $34.3 Million for Gulf Restoration Projects in Florida
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 17, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott and The National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) announced the funding of $34.3 million for nine Florida projects that address high priority conservation needs. The projects, developed in consultation with the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection and federal resource agencies, are designed to remedy harm or reduce the risk of future harm to natural resources that were affected by the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
Governor Scott said, "This $34.3 million in funding is great news for families in the Panhandle. Florida's natural treasures must be protected so that future generations will be able to experience all that our great state has to offer."
The money is the second obligation from NFWF's Gulf Environmental Benefit Fund, created 18 months ago as part of the settlement between the U.S. Department of Justice and BP and Transocean to resolve certain criminal charges against both companies in relation to the spill. Under the allocation formula and other provisions contained in the plea agreements, a total of $356 million will be paid into the Gulf Fund over a five year period for conservation projects in the state of Florida.
"The model for the Gulf Environmental Benefit Fund is one of partnership," said Jeff Trandahl, executive director and CEO of NFWF. "In order to succeed, NFWF must bring together state resource agencies, federal agencies, and other public and private partners, all working in harmony to fund the best projects that will do the most good for the Gulf of Mexico and the communities that depend on it each and every day. The projects we announce today demonstrate the value of our efforts to work in a collaborative fashion to select projects that will provide significant benefits to wildlife and people for many years to come."
In early 2013, a U.S. District Court approved two plea agreements resolving certain criminal charges against BP and Transocean related to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Provisions within the plea agreements direct a total of $2.544 billion to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation over a five-year period. The funds are to be used to support projects that remedy harm or reduce the risk of future harm to natural resources that were affected by the oil spill.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/11/17/nfwf-announces-34-3-million-for-gulf-restoration-projects-in-florida/
