Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Awards North Florida Business with Governor's Business Ambassador Award
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 12, 2014
Location: Unknown

During today's meeting of the Florida Cabinet, Governor Rick Scott recognized Certified Manufacturing Enterprises with the Governor's Business Ambassador Award for the company's commitment in creating jobs for families in North Florida. The Governor's Business Ambassador Award is given to individuals for their efforts in creating jobs and opportunities in Florida.
Governor Scott said, "Certified Manufacturing Enterprises is creating opportunities and jobs for Florida families and it was an honor to recognize them with the Governor's Business Ambassador Award. With a total of 651,300 private sector jobs created since December 2010, businesses like Certified Manufacturing Enterprises show that our job creation efforts are working."
Certified Manufacturing Enterprises Director of Administration Michelle Rasbeck said, "Certified Manufacturing is very honored to receive the Business Ambassador Award from Governor Rick Scott. Twenty-five percent of our staff are military veterans; a fact we are extremely proud of. We at Certified Manufacturing take our mission to provide quality product to those defending the freedoms of our great country with great diligence."
Certified Manufacturing Enterprises, Holt, Florida -- Certified Manufacturing Enterprises (CME) was founded in 2009 by Mr. John Bailie and Mr. Robert Bechtold. Mr. Bailie is a service disabled veteran who developed his engineering and project management background through his service in the Army Corp of Engineers. CME provides a diverse array of manufacturing services to meet the constantly changing requirements of its customers. CME offers long term, multi-year, turn-key programs that include kitting, laser wire marking, cable and harness assembly, electro-mechanical assemblies and circuit card assembly. CME prioritizes coordination of resources to ensure future supply needs and delivery dates are met or exceeded.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/11/12/governor-rick-scott-awards-north-florida-business-with-governors-business-ambassador-award/
