Public Statements
Florida Veterans Foundation Installs First Brick in Veterans Walk of Honor at State Capitol
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 12, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott joined the Florida Veterans Foundation in laying the first brick in the Florida Veterans Walk of Honor on the grounds of the Florida Capitol. The event marked the beginning of a collaborative effort by the Florida Veterans Foundation, the Florida Legislature and the Governor to honor and support individual Florida veterans through personalized bricks along a dedicated walkway at the Capitol.
Governor Scott said, "I am proud that Florida is recognized as one of the most veteran-friendly states in the country. We can never do enough to recognize the outstanding sacrifice veterans have made to this country, and the Walk of Honor is an extraordinary way for our state to show our appreciation for those who have given so much in service to our nation."
The Florida Veterans Walk of Honor will be a 12-foot-wide, 500-foot-long walkway running through the Capitol Courtyard between the old and new Florida Capitol buildings. The Walk of Honor will also connect to the House and Senate Office Buildings.
The first dedication brick in the Walk of Honor was engraved in honor of Florida Marine Lance Cpl. Daniel B. Chaires, who was killed in Iraq in the line of duty in 2006. Lance Cpl. Chaires, who was only 20 when he died, was a descendent of one of Leon County's pioneer families, and was completely devoted to his country and to those he loved. Lance Cpl. Chaires truly lived the values of the United States Marine Corps: honor, courage and commitment.
"It is with great pride, honor and enthusiasm that the Florida Veterans Foundation begins construction on the Walk of Honor," said Maj. John Haynes, Chairman Emeritus of the Florida Veterans Foundation. "Purchasing a brick is a great way for loved ones, friends and other patriotic citizens to honor and memorialize veterans, knowing the proceeds will go toward helping even more veterans in our state."
For $250 each, a brick will be engraved showing the honoree's name, rank, branch and dates of service and other pertinent information. A smaller commemorative version of the brick can also be ordered as a keepsake for the donor, for an extra $25.
"The Florida Department of Veterans' Affairs is working hard to serve Florida's more than 1.5 million veterans each day by providing them access to the services they've earned," said Mike Prendergast, FDVA Executive Director. "Honoring our veterans in this way is a small token of our gratitude compared with all they have done for us."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/11/12/florida-veterans-foundation-installs-first-brick-in-veterans-walk-of-honor-at-state-capitol/
