Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces US Supreme Court Agrees to Take Up Water Wars Case
Press Release
By: Steve Southerland Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 3, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to take up Florida's suit regarding Georgia's overconsumption of waters that's impacting the Apalachicola Bay region.
Governor Scott said, "This is huge news and a major victory for Florida, and marks the first of many important victories for the families and businesses of Apalachicola. We took bold action last year to protect the waters of Apalachicola from Georgia's unchecked use of these critical resources. For 20 years, Florida has tried to work with Georgia, and families have continued to see their fisheries suffer from the lack of water. The Supreme Court takes up so few cases, and their willingness to hear Florida's demonstrates the merits of our case before the Court. We are fighting for the future of this region, and we won't quit until these resources are restored."
Attorney General Pam Bondi said, "We are pleased with the United States Supreme Court's decision to grant Florida's motion and to allow the lawsuit against Georgia to move forward. Georgia has delayed long enough, and this lawsuit is essential to protect Florida from the environmental and economic harms caused by Georgia's overconsumption of water. We look forward to continuing our fight to protect Florida's fair share of water in the United States Supreme Court."
Congressman Steve Southerland said, "This marks a big step forward for the North Florida families who live and work along Apalachicola Bay. Georgia has stolen our water for far too long, and I'm pleased the Supreme Court is prepared to consider a resolution to the crisis. As Floridians, we have an obligation to continue fighting for the people, jobs, and treasured heritage of Apalachicola Bay."
The Governor announced last year that the State of Florida would file suit against Georgia.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/11/03/governor-scott-announces-u-s-supreme-court-agrees-to-take-up-water-wars-case/
