Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces $650,000 Investment for Tampa Bay Defense Alliance and Polk County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 27, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the Tampa Bay Defense Alliance and Polk County will receive $650,000 in grants from the Florida Defense Support Task Force to protect the military communities.
Governor Scott said, "We must support our military installations in the Tampa area, and this $650,000 Defense Support Task Force grant will help both MacDill Air Force Base and the Avon Park Air Force Range. Florida continues to be the best place in the nation for military service members and their families to live and work, and with these grants we can make sure we are providing the support they need to keep our state and nation safe."
The Florida Defense Support Task Force was created in 2011 with the mission to make recommendations to preserve and protect military installations, support the state's position in research and development related to military missions and contracting, and improve the state's military-friendly environment for service members, military families, military retirees and businesses that bring military and base-related jobs to the state.
Secretary of Commerce and president & CEO of Enterprise Florida, Gray Swoope said, "These grants are vital to our military and defense programs, and the local economies that rely on the operation of those facilities. Because of the grants, military communities around the state are able to improve working environments for Florida's service men and women. Florida's military and defense sector is one of the strongest in the country because of our commitment to preserve and protect our military installations. Enterprise Florida, through its work with the Florida Defense Task Force, is committed to supporting these critical assets."
"The Florida Defense Support Task Force has again been able to provide local defense communities around the state the resources to keep vital missions at Florida's military installations. These grants will help protect, preserve and enhance Florida's military installations that generate billions of dollars for our economy as well as stable, high-paying jobs for Floridians. I applaud Governor Scott and the Florida Legislature for their support of the Task Force and commitment to keeping Florida as the most military-friendly state in the nation," said Chairman and State Representative Jimmy Patronis from Panama City.

Source:
