Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces $2.59 Million in Defense Grants Given to 13 Florida Projects
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 27, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that 10 counties were awarded $2.59 million through the Florida Defense Support Task Force Grant Program. The funding will support 13 projects to strengthen Florida's bases ahead of any potential Department of Defense realignment or closure actions, thereby protecting more than $73.4 billion in economic impact, and more than 758,000 jobs that the defense industry supports in the state.
Governor Scott said, "We will continue to work to make Florida the best place in the nation for military service members and their families to live and work, and this $2.59 million in Florida Defense Support Task Force Grants will further help us support our military installations. Florida is home to more than 758,000 service men and women, and we thank them for the sacrifices they make to keep our state and nation safe."
The Florida Defense Support Task Force was created in 2011 with the mission to make recommendations to preserve and protect military installations, support the state's position in research and development related to military missions and contracting, and improve the state's military-friendly environment for service members, military families, military retirees and businesses that bring military and base-related jobs to the state.
Senate President Don Gaetz said, "The work of the Defense Support Task Force is critical to preserving and protecting Florida's bases and missions. As the sponsor of the enabling legislation, I am especially grateful to our Senate appointees James Montgomerie, Judge Patt Maney, Tom Neubauer and JR McDonald. Their hard work and commitment to keeping Florida the most military-friendly state in our nation will produce lasting dividends for our military personnel, retirees and their families as well as Florida's economy."
House Speaker Will Weatherford said, "The Florida Defense Support Task Force Grant Program has been instrumental in supporting our local military installations and military families. These grants will make an immediate economic impact on our state's economy and will bring security for thousands of hard working Floridians."
Senate President-Designate Andy Gardiner said, "Earlier this year, the Florida Legislature passed and Governor Scott signed into law the Florida GI Bill, moving our state further towards our goal of making Florida the most military-friendly state in the nation. The work of Florida's Defense Support Task Force builds on that commitment through resources that support, build and grow the defense industry and military communities across Florida."
House Speaker-Designate Steve Crisafulli said, "I'm proud to see these funds used to assist our military communities and businesses that go the extra mile to protect our state. Florida's Defense Support Task Force plays a critical role in furthering Florida's status as the most military friendly state in the nation. We will continue to support our military installations and the more than 700,000 Floridians employed in the defense industry.
"The Florida Defense Support Task Force has again been able to provide local defense communities around the state the resources to keep vital missions at Florida's military installations. These grants will help protect, preserve and enhance Florida's military installations that generate billions of dollars for our economy as well as stable, high-paying jobs for Floridians. I applaud Governor Scott and the Florida Legislature for their support of the Task Force and their commitment to keeping Florida as the most military-friendly state in the nation," said Chairman and State Representative Jimmy Patronis from Panama City.
Secretary of Commerce and president & CEO of Enterprise Florida, Gray Swoope said, "These grants are vital to our military and defense programs, and the local economies that rely on the operation of those facilities. Because of the grants, military communities around the state are able to improve working environments for Florida's service men and women. Florida's military and defense sector is one of the strongest in the country because of our commitment to preserve and protect our military installations. Enterprise Florida, through its work with the Florida Defense Task Force, is committed to supporting these critical assets."
A combined $2.59 million was awarded to 13 worthy projects in the state, helping to protect and improve Florida military installations, and furthering Florida's reputation as the most military friendly state in the nation.
Ten counties received a Florida Defense Support Task Force Grant, which will be utilized to protect, preserve and enhance Florida's military missions and installations while maintaining Florida's reputation as the most military friendly state in the nation.
The 2014-15 Florida Defense Support Task Force Grants were awarded to defense partners in the following counties: Polk, Brevard, Duval, Santa Rosa, Okaloosa (3), Clay, Hillsborough, Escambia, Orange, and Bay (2).
This grant program is administered by Enterprise Florida, Inc. The grants are awarded annually, on a project priority basis, to organizations and communities working to protect, preserve and enhance Florida's military installations and missions as well as improving the state's military-friendly environment for service members, families and veterans.
Enterprise Florida, Inc. (EFI) is a partnership between Florida's businesses and government leaders and is the principal economic development organization for the state of Florida. EFI facilitates job growth for Florida businesses through recruitment and retention, international trade and exporting, promotion of sporting events, and capital funding programs to assist small and minority businesses.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/10/27/governor-scott-announces-2-59-million-in-defense-grants-given-to-13-florida-projects/
