Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announces $500,000 Investment for Florida 8 (A) Alliance and Clay County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 27, 2014
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the Florida 8 (a) Alliance in Jacksonville and Clay County will receive $500,000 in Florida Defense Support Task Force Grants.
Governor Scott said, "This $500,000 grant to the Jacksonville area will help to benefit the Florida 8 (a) Alliance and Camp Blanding, and the men and women who serve the military at these locations. I'm proud that our state recognizes the value of our military installations, and continues to support them with these grants."
The Florida Defense Support Task Force was created in 2011 with the mission to make recommendations to preserve and protect military installations, support the state's position in research and development related to military missions and contracting, and improve the state's military-friendly environment for service members, military families, military retirees and businesses that bring military and base-related jobs to the state.
Secretary of Commerce and president & CEO of Enterprise Florida, Gray Swoope said, "These grants are vital to our military and defense programs, and the local economies that rely on the operation of those facilities. Because of the grants, military communities around the state are able to improve working environments for Florida's service men and women. Florida's military and defense sector is one of the strongest in the country because of our commitment to preserve and protect our military installations. Enterprise Florida, through its work with the Florida Defense Task Force, is committed to supporting these critical assets."
"The Florida Defense Support Task Force has again been able to provide local defense communities around the state the resources to keep vital missions at Florida's military installations. These grants will help protect, preserve and enhance Florida's military installations that generate billions of dollars for our economy as well as stable, high-paying jobs for Floridians. I applaud Governor Scott and the Florida Legislature for their support of the Task Force and commitment to keeping Florida as the most military-friendly state in the nation," said Chairman and State Representative Jimmy Patronis from Panama City.
DUVAL COUNTY
The Florida 8 (a) Alliance will receive $100,000 to provide a gateway for industries looking for high quality small business suppliers as well as support for veteran-owned and defense industry businesses through training, mentoring, marketing, and development. This will help them connect with other small businesses and large business/contractors in the defense industry in Florida.
Senator Aaron Bean said, "Duval County is appreciative of the Governor and the Florida Defense Support Task Force for their efforts to support our military communities and the men and women who serve our country. This grant award will go a long way to help preserve this positive economic impact."
Representative Daniel Davis said, "The $100,000 funding the Florida 8 (a) Alliance is receiving supports veteran-owned and defense industry businesses by educating them in support of federal contracting and job creation. We are thankful to Governor Scott for addressing this need."
Representative Charles McBurney said, "I am thankful to the Florida Defense Support Task Force for including Duval County in these awards. Our community is proud to support our military and veterans and we're proud to call Florida the most military friendly state in the nation."
Representative Lake Ray said, "The military sector in Duval County employs more than 108,000 people, resulting in $671 million in economic impact. Governor Scott continues to recognize the economic importance of our military communities."
"The Florida 8(a) Alliance is honored to receive funding through the Florida Defense Support Task Force to continue providing training to Veteran and Minority owned small businesses throughout the state of Florida supporting our military installations and making and economic impact," said Stephanie M. Landing, Executive Director, Florida 8(a) Alliance.
CLAY COUNTY
The Clay County Development Authority will receive $400,000 for the purchase of 159 acres adjacent to Camp Blanding to provide buffer from incompatible land development and encroachment. This will help protect Camp Blanding and facilitate training capability growth.
Senator Rob Bradley said, "The military installations throughout the state have such a significant impact on our economy with more than 750,000 jobs and more than $73 billion in economic impact. I applaud Governor Scott for his continued, steadfast support of Camp Blanding."
Representative Charles Van Zant said, "Clay County is fortunate to receive this grant funding from the Florida Defense Support Task Force. I am grateful to Governor Scott for always helping to prevent anything from affecting Camp Blanding and the revenue it provides to the Clay County economy."
Representative Travis Cummings said, "This grant will help preserve the economic impact our military bases and families have in Florida. Camp Blanding comprises almost one fifth of Clay County and is tied to our economic viability. Our community is grateful to receive this funding as it will assist in protecting the installation."
"In accordance with our principal purpose of promoting sound economic development of Clay County, the Clay County Development Authority is pleased to receive this grant that will strengthen the strategic partnerships with Camp Blanding Joint Training Center to improve the quality of life for our citizens by securing a buffer from future development and encroachment thus protecting the installation that compromises almost one-fifth of the county and is tied to its economic viability," said Debbie Ricks, Chair, Clay County Development Authority.
The 2014-2015 Florida Defense Support Task Force grants, totaling $2.59 million, have been awarded to 13 worthy projects that serve to protect military installations across the state.
The Florida Defense Support Task Force grants are awarded to local community organizations which support Florida military installations. These grants will be utilized to protect, preserve and enhance Florida's military missions and installations while maintaining Florida's reputation as the most military friendly state in the Nation.
The Florida Defense Support Task Force grants are awarded to local community organizations which support Florida military installations. These grants will be utilized to protect, preserve and enhance Florida's military missions and installations while maintaining Florida's reputation as the most military friendly state in the nation. Additionally, these grants will strengthen Florida's bases ahead of any potential Department of Defense realignment or closure actions, thereby protecting more than $73.4 billion in economic impact, and more than 758,100 jobs that the defense industry supports in the state.
This grant program is administered by Enterprise Florida, Inc. The grants are awarded annually, on a project priority basis, to organizations and communities working to protect, preserve and enhance Florida's military installations and missions, as well as improving the state's military-friendly environment for service members, families and veterans. For more information on the Florida Defense Support Task Force, visit their website at: http://www.enterpriseflorida.com/fdstf/
Enterprise Florida, Inc. (EFI) is a partnership between Florida's businesses and government leaders and is the principal economic development organization for the state of Florida. EFI facilitates job growth for Florida businesses through recruitment and retention, international trade and exporting, promotion of sporting events, and capital funding programs to assist small and minority businesses.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/10/27/governor-rick-scott-announces-500000-investment-for-florida-8-a-alliance-and-clay-county/
