Public Statements
Florida Continues to Lead Large States in Private-Sector Job Growth
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Dec. 7, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Florida businesses had the fastest annual private-sector job growth rate of the 10 most populous states for the second month in a row. Over the year in October, Florida added 237,100 new private-sector jobs, resulting in a private-sector job growth rate of 3.3 percent, far outpacing the nation's rate of 1.8 percent. Florida's manufacturing industry led the nation in job gains over the year in October for the third consecutive month, adding 14,300 new jobs in the last year. Florida's October home prices were also higher across the state than a year ago.
Governor Scott said, "I am proud to announce that Florida continues to lead the nation's largest states, including top jobs competitors like Texas and California, in private-sector job growth. With more than 1.2 million jobs created over the past six years, a strong private-sector job growth rate, and a growing housing market, it is clear that our focus on making Florida the best place for businesses and families to succeed is working."
The statewide median sales price for single-family existing homes last month was $220,000, up 11.7 percent from the previous year's median price of $197,000. In October, the metro areas with the highest increase in sales over-the-year were Pensacola with 18 percent growth, Tallahassee with 14 percent growth and Gainesville with 11 percent growth. The Villages, Daytona, Punta Gorda, Melbourne, Ft. Walton Beach and Port St. Lucie areas had the strongest median sales price growth, all exceeding 15 percent. In October, 10,156 new building permits were issued in Florida, accounting for 10 percent of new building permits issued nationwide.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Cissy Proctor said, "Florida continues to prove our economic excellence across the nation and with more than 1,000 people moving into Florida each day, it's no surprise that our housing market continues to improve. Governor Scott's success in cutting taxes and attracting new business to our state has resulted in a brighter future for so many Floridians, and we will continue to take our economy to new heights."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/12/07/gov-scott-florida-continues-to-lead-large-states-in-private-sector-job-growth/
