Public Statements
Sales of Florida Prepaid College Plans Continue to Smash Records
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 24, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott and Florida Prepaid Chairman Duane Ottenstroer were proud to celebrate the Florida Prepaid College Board's announcement of record-setting plan sales. For the first week of open enrollment, total prepaid plan sales were up 208% over last year, with more than 6,000 plans purchased by Florida families working towards an affordable college education.
Florida Prepaid Chairman Duane Ottenstroer said, "Governor Scott worked with the Legislature to sign HB 851 to hold the line on tuition. The results: tuition is lower, families are getting refunds and there's more excitement for Florida Prepaid Plans. Governor Scott and the Legislature succeeded in putting hundreds of dollars back into the pocketbooks of Florida families each month and making the dream of a college education a reality for many more families."
Governor Scott said, "With our effort to hold the line on tuition more-and-more families are excited to send their children to Florida schools. Families shouldn't have to put themselves under mountains of debt for their children to receive a good education, and that's exactly what the previous administration's policies forced them to do. The Florida Prepaid College Board's announcement demonstrates an affordable education benefits our students, our schools and our state, and we'll continue working to make education accessible for every family."
The incredible surge in sales is credited to lower plan prices that were made possible because of House Bill 851, which passed during the 2014 Legislative Session and was signed by Governor Scott.
The four-year university plan dropped by more than half this year from $53,729 to $27,379, or from $350 to $173 a month. The plan, the most popular offered by Florida Prepaid, is the now the lowest since 2008-2009.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/10/24/sales-of-florida-prepaid-college-plans-continue-to-smash-records/
