Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announces SeaLand to Open Miramar Headquarters Location
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 23, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that SeaLand will locate its corporate headquarters in Miramar. The shipping company will create 65 jobs and a capital investment of $350,000 in the South Florida community.
Governor Scott said, "The opening of SeaLand's headquarters in Miramar is great news for area families, and the 65 new jobs that will be created will help more families live the American Dream here in Florida. Since December 2010, we have created 651,300 private-sector jobs and we will continue working to create an opportunity economy where every Floridian who wants a job can get one."
In January of 2014, Maersk Line, the world's leading ocean transportation company and a unit of the A.P. Moller-Maersk Group, announced the formation of a regional, containerized shipping company -- SeaLand -- dedicated to the intra-Americas market.
With a structure similar to Maersk's other successful regional carriers, including intra-Asia carrier MCC Transport and intra-Europe carrier Seago Line, SeaLand will feature knowledgeable, local sales and support personnel positioned in North, Central and South America, as well as the Caribbean, to meet the unique needs of customers throughout the region. This agile framework will provide greater flexibility and a higher-level of customer-focused service to these local markets. Maersk Line's existing Intra-Americas service network will be the foundation for SeaLand's ocean products.
Craig Mygatt, SeaLand's CEO said, "We are excited to base our headquarters in Miramar, Florida. The SeaLand headquarters will act as the main hub for our business which spans throughout North, Central and South America, and the Caribbean. This location is ideal for our operation and will serve us well as we focus on delivering world-class shipping service for all of our customers throughout this vital region of the world. We believe Florida offers great opportunities for our team and their families. We thank Governor Scott, Secretary Swoope, the State of Florida, Enterprise Florida, and our local partners for their outstanding support on this project."
The broader wholesale trade, transportation and logistics industry employs more than half a million Floridians. Of those, nearly 85,500 work at companies specifically providing logistics and distribution services. As the gateway to Latin America, Florida's logistics and distribution industry is poised to grow further with the Panama Canal expansion, and the numerous infrastructure developments and upgrades underway around the state.
"SeaLand's decision to locate in Florida validates the state's success in maintaining a business climate that supports not only Florida's extensive logistics industry, but our headquarters sector as well," said Gray Swoope, president & CEO of Enterprise Florida. "Florida's resources, including a strong workforce, expansive infrastructure and strategic partnerships, have created one of the top business climates in the country. We're excited to see SeaLand take advantage of Florida's assets and I congratulate them on this establishment."
This project was made possible through the close partnerships of Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, CareerSource Florida, the Greater Fort Lauderdale Alliance and Broward County.
"Florida is a global trade hub and businesses that specialize in logistics, like SeaLand, thrive here," said Jesse Panuccio, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity. "This administration is focused on diversifying our economy and building our trade, transportation, and logistics industries so we can bring more jobs to our state for Florida families. With the creation of 65 new jobs over the next year by SeaLand, we are continuing to grow our opportunity economy."
CareerSource Florida provides performance-based partial reimbursement grants to qualifying new or expanding businesses for customized employee training through the Quick Response Training (QRT) program.
"CareerSource Florida strongly supports the growth of Florida's target industries through training grants that facilitate high-skill, high-wage jobs," said CareerSource Florida President and CEO Chris Hart IV. "With the location of SeaLand's new headquarters here, our beautiful state further strengthens its growing international reputation as the global hub for trade and logistics operations."
"We are proud to welcome SeaLand to our city and commend the company for partnering with us as we work to sustain a strong economic base for our community," said Miramar Mayor Lori C. Moseley.
"SeaLand is yet another example that "Broward Means Business.' The company has a long distinguished reputation in the marine industry, which is a prime targeted business and we thank them for bringing jobs and a considerable investment to Broward County," said Broward County Mayor Barbara Sharief. "Broward County continues its widespread effort to bring new companies to our area and we are pleased to welcome SeaLand to Miramar."
"The Alliance is excited that SeaLand has located in Miramar. The company's rich history and bright future in marine and logistics is a perfect match and strong addition to two of Greater Fort Lauderdale/Broward County's targeted industries. We wish the company continued success," said Alliance CEO Bob Swindell.
"SeaLand's 13,000 square foot headquarters in Miramar at MetLife's Huntington Centre is a highly significant leasing deal in terms of economic impact," said Taylor & Mathis Director of Leasing, Donna Korn. "The company will be an outstanding asset to Broward County." Korn, along with Jennifer Gemma, brokered the lease transaction on behalf of landlord MetLife
The Maersk Group is a worldwide conglomerate and operates in some 130 countries with a workforce of over 89,000 employees. In addition to owning one of the world's largest shipping companies, Maersk is involved in a wide range of activities in the shipping, logistics, and the oil and gas industries.
Enterprise Florida, Inc. (EFI) is a partnership between Florida's businesses and government leaders and is the principal economic development organization for the state of Florida. EFI facilitates job growth for Florida businesses through recruitment and retention, international trade and exporting, promotion of sporting events, and capital funding programs to assist small and minority businesses.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/10/23/governor-rick-scott-announces-sealand-to-open-miramar-headquarters-location/
