Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces Distribution of $60 Million for Cancer Centers
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 21, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott announced today record funding to improve cancer care, increase the number of National Cancer Institute (NCI) designated cancer centers and create a premier cancer research network in Florida. H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center and the University of Florida Health Cancer Center will receive funding in the amounts of $25,490,638, $16,000,000 and $18,509,362, respectively. Governor Scott led the effort to increase cancer funding and research, resulting in Florida now investing $80 million in cancer research.
Governor Scott said, "Florida's families deserve the best cancer care possible. This $60 million investment specifically for Florida's cancer centers will allow them to provide the most advanced care through innovative and collaborative research outcomes. This milestone is a testament to Florida's commitment to providing world class treatment to all cancer patients."
As a part of this investment, $60 million dollars will be allocated annually by the NCI Cancer Center Program to promote research and assist Florida's top cancer centers to meet the rigorous scientific standards required for the NCI designation. NCI-designated cancer centers provide the latest in medical discoveries to patients, serve the educational needs of health professionals and promote health equity throughout communities.
The other $20 million of cancer research funding is split between the James and Esther King Biomedical Research Program and the William "Bill" G. Bankhead and David Coley Cancer Research Program, which both award competitive grants to promising cancer research projects.
State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong said, "Excellence in cancer research and patient care is a top priority for Florida. Thanks to the vision of Governor Rick Scott and the Florida Legislature, this funding will position Florida as a leader in cancer research and help us to achieve our goal of becoming the premier destination for cancer treatment, research and prevention."
Dr. Alan F. List, President and CEO of Moffitt Cancer Center, said, "We are pleased with Florida's dedication to cancer research initiatives and delighted to receive funding that will allow Moffitt to continue working toward our mission to contribute to the prevention and cure of cancer. As we make strides in cancer research, Florida moves closer to becoming the nation's destination for cancer treatment and research."
Pascal J. Goldschmidt, M.D., Senior Vice President for Medical Affairs and Dean of the Miller School of Medicine and Chief Executive Officer, University of Miami Health System, said, "The Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center is proud to contribute to research initiatives that enhance treatment for Floridians with cancer, and applauds the state for its vision in allocating funds that will allow our cancer center to achieve NCI designation. This funding will be used to elevate Sylvester and the state of Florida to new heights, creating a top-tier research and treatment environment in our state to the ultimate benefit of all Floridians."
David S. Guzick, M.D., Ph.D., University of Florida senior vice president for health affairs and UF Health president said, "The University of Florida Health Cancer Center is encouraged by Florida's devotion to research and treatment and proud to be recognized in our effort to help our state become a national leader in cancer care. This funding will help our cancer center reach our goal of generating tomorrow's answers for today's patients through state-of-the-art cancer treatment, prevention, control and education."
Senate President Don Gaetz said, "In some form or another, cancer touches the lives of millions of Americans every year. Governor Scott and the Legislature share a passion for keeping Florida on the cutting edge of cancer treatment and research so that more cancer patients can become cancer survivors. I look forward to learning about the good work these cancer centers are doing to bring us closer to a cure."
House Speaker Will Weatherford said, "Cancer is a terrible disease that sadly affects too many people. Floridians should be thankful we have a Governor like Rick Scott and a principled state legislature that recognize the importance of making such a strategic investment in cancer research. These funds will pave the way for improved treatment and prevention strategies for years to come."
Senate President-Designate Andy Gardiner said, "Cancer has taken a toll on Florida's families for far too long. Governor Scott's commitment to cancer research will yield positive results for the thousands of Floridians affected by this disease and position our state as the leading destination for cancer research and treatment."
House Speaker-Designate Steve Crisafulli said, "Working together, we can make a meaningful difference in providing Florida's families with the care and treatment they need. This funding is a monumental step in the right direction for cancer research in Florida, and I am grateful for Governor Scott's strong leadership on this critical issue."
Senator Lizbeth Benacquisto said, "We are fortunate to live in a state that strives to be a leader in cancer treatment and prevention. It was a pleasure to be a part of the team that passed this bill and I am thankful for Governor Scott's longstanding support for cancer patients."
Senator Denise Grimsley said, "The announcement of this $60 million to be shared among three top-tier cancer centers will help Florida continue on the path toward having more NCI-designated centers. Governor Scott has Florida on the right path to help more Florida centers achieve this rigorous designation."
Senator Aaron Bean said, "As I've said before, our efforts to serve and care for people who are battling cancer demonstrate Florida's commitment to do whatever is necessary to bring health and healing. I am pleased to continue supporting Governor Scott as he leads the transformation of cancer research funding in our state."
Senator Rene Garcia said, "Florida's first-class cancer centers help people from all over the world beat this terrible disease. I am proud to stand in support of Governor Scott and this cancer funding."
Senator Bill Galvano said, "Governor Scott is always looking for ways to help Florida lead the nation. With this new cancer center funding, he has again positioned Florida to be a leader in the nation. I am proud to stand in support of this initiative."
Senator Anitere Flores said, "Today's announcement for the new cancer funding reinforces Governor Scott's commitment to supporting cancer research in Florida. This funding will make a difference in the lives of Florida families and I am proud to stand in support."
Representative Marti Coley said, "Governor Scott's efforts to promote Florida's Cancer Centers should assure our residents that our state is committed to leading the way in finding an end to a disease that takes so much from so many."
Representative Dana Young said, "I commend Gov. Scott for his leadership in making Florida a destination for cancer research and care. This visionary program will give Florida based cancer centers the opportunity to earn the designation of "Comprehensive Cancer Center' by the National Cancer Institute. Moffitt Cancer Center is currently the only Florida based center with this most prestigious award. This program will improve the care, and most importantly the outcomes, for Floridians and the visitors who receive their care here."
Representative Matt Hudson said, "This $60 million in cancer research funding will help Florida's centers continue on their paths to making our state the cancer treatment destination. Governor Scott understands how terrible this disease is and through this funding he has demonstrated his commitment to creating healthier communities."
Representative Richard Corcoran said, "Florida is a leader in so many industries and Governor Scott's announcement of more than $60 million for funding cancer research will continue to propel our state forward with cutting edge research."
Representative Jose Oliva said, "Governor Scott's $60 million investment in cancer research has become a reality as funding has begun to flow to the three top-tier cancer centers in Florida. This funding will continue to help build the research enterprise and attract additional research dollars from outside the state."
Representative Jose Felix Diaz said, "Sadly, most Floridians know someone whose life has been touched by cancer. This announcement by Governor Scott for cancer prevention and treatment should bring renewed hope to many Florida families."
Representative Debbie Mayfield said, "Governor Scott's budget invests in research, technology and state-of-the-art prevention, diagnosis and treatment makes Florida a leader in the battle against this terrible disease and a beacon of hope for countless families."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/10/21/gov-scott-announces-distribution-of-60-million-for-cancer-centers/
