Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott: Florida National Guard Rapid Response Teams Will Further Prepare for Ebola
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 20, 2014
Location: Unknown

After meeting with Major General Emmett Titshaw today, Governor Scott announced that the Florida National Guard is currently establishing two Rapid Response Teams to further enhance Florida's Ebola preparedness efforts. Each National Guard Rapid Response team of 16 will include doctors, nurses and equipment personnel. These two teams are undergoing intensive training and will be ready by the end of the October to assist healthcare workers, if they are ever needed to supplement a hospital's existing personnel.
Governor Scott said, "Today, I met with General Titshaw on the Florida National Guard's preparedness efforts -- in the event we ever have a case of Ebola in Florida. While our first responders and healthcare workers are the front line of care in the event of an Ebola case, our Florida National Guard is currently establishing two Rapid Response teams that can manage Ebola cases and provide support to hospitals, if needed.
"I want to thank the CDC for working with our healthcare workers on a conference call today and supporting our work to repurpose more than $7 million in federal funding to buy equipment that enhances our preparedness for Ebola. We continue to not wait for the federal government as we prepare for any Ebola response in Florida. The Department of Health is currently acquiring more high-level PPEs so our healthcare workers on the front lines are protected. Additionally, the personnel at 55 Florida hospitals have completed Ebola preparedness training, and ACHA is continuing to reach out to all 210 hospitals to ensure they are all trained quickly.
"We are preparing for the worst, while hoping for the best. The Guard's resources will provide Florida communities with an extra layer of protection -- in the event we ever see a case of this horrible disease in our state."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/10/20/governor-rick-scott-florida-national-guard-rapid-response-teams-will-further-prepare-for-ebola/
