Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces $310,000 Investment for Okaloosa County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Okaloosa County was awarded $310,000 through Florida's Defense Infrastructure and Reinvestment Grant Programs. The funding will allow Eglin Air Force Base, Hurlburt Field, and Duke Field to continue successfully carrying out their missions.
Governor Scott said, "We must continue to support our military installations like Eglin Air Force Base, Hurlburt Field and Duke Field so that the service men and women stationed in Northwest Florida are prepared to protect and defend Florida families. This more than $300,000 in Defense Infrastructure and Reinvestment grants will help to grow the economy in Okaloosa County and the surrounding areas."
For more than 15 years the defense grants have been successful tools in assisting local defense partners in supporting the State's military installations. Florida's military and defense sector is responsible for 9.4 percent -- or $73.4 billion -- of the Sunshine State's economy. This translates to 758,112 statewide direct and indirect jobs.
Okaloosa County was one of twelve counties to receive a Defense Reinvestment Grant, which is designed to support relationships between military installations and their community. The $110,000 to the Economic Development Council of Okaloosa County will help to protect Florida's military installations, as well as promote economic diversification strategies in defense dependent communities.
The Defense Infrastructure Grant is awarded to local projects deemed to have a positive impact on the military value of the installation in addition to benefitting the community. Okaloosa County was awarded $200,000 for the purpose of encroachment protection.
Senate President Don Gaetz said, "Our task is to ensure Northwest Florida's bases and missions are protected and expanded. By these grants, we are making our community more military-friendly and helping our military installations to be even better neighbors."

Source:
