Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces $251,000 Investment for Duval County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the City of Jacksonville was awarded $251,000 through Florida's Defense Infrastructure and Reinvestment Grant Programs. The funding will be used to sustain Naval Air Station Jacksonville, Naval Station Mayport, and Marine Corp Support Facility Blount Island.
Governor Scott said, "This $251,000 investment is vital to maintaining the high level of operations and missions in the region. We are committed to investing in our military installations in Duval County. We appreciate Florida's service men and women, veterans and military families for their sacrifices and dedication."
For more than 15 years the defense grants have been successful tools in assisting local defense partners in supporting the State's military installations. Florida's military and defense sector is responsible for 9.4 percent -- or $73.4 billion -- of the Sunshine State's economy. This translates to 758,112 statewide direct and indirect jobs.
Duval County was one of twelve counties to receive a Defense Reinvestment Grant, which is designed to support relationships between military installations and their community. This $51,000 grant will help to protect Florida's military installations, as well as promote economic diversification strategies in defense dependent communities.
The Defense Infrastructure Grant is awarded to local projects deemed to have a positive impact on the military value of the installation in addition to benefitting its community. This $200,000 grant will work to protect Naval Air Station Jacksonville from encroachment.
Senator Aaron Bean said, "These grants go a long way in helping to preserve the economic impact our military bases and families have on Florida. I sincerely thank Governor Scott and the Legislature for recognizing the value of our military communities and funding these important grant programs."
Representative Daniel Davis said, "Home to four military installations, Jacksonville is heavily dependent on the defense industry's economic impact. I appreciate the $200,000 Defense Infrastructure Grant award that will be utilized to buffer Outlying Landing Field Whitehouse. Jacksonville was also awarded $51,000 through the Defense Reinvestment Grant that will support our military installations and benefit our local community."
Representative Charles McBurney said, "Florida's military installations are vital to Florida in so many ways, from defending our citizens to billions in economic impact. This $51,000 Defense Reinvestment Grant will support a number of bases in Duval County, and the $200,000 Defense Infrastructure Grant is critical to keeping NAS Jacksonville in our community."
Representative Lake Ray said, "The City of Jacksonville appreciates Governor Scott's support in the form of two Florida Defense Grants, totaling $251,000. The Defense Infrastructure Grant will be tasked with protecting Naval Air Station Jacksonville's Outlying Landing Field Whitehouse from light and sound encroachment."
Representative Janet Adkins said, "Military funding is incredibly important to Duval County. The military sector in this region employs more than 108,000 people, resulting in $671 million in economic impact. We are thankful to Governor Scott and the Legislature for continuing to support these programs."
"The Florida Defense Grants Programs are vital for our military and defense industry, and strengthen Florida's workforce through the highly skilled former military personnel who enter the employment market each year. I am proud to play a part in supporting our military installations and communities, and appreciate what our service men and women do to protect our state," said Gray Swoope, Florida Secretary of Commerce and President & CEO of Enterprise Florida.
A combined $2,450,000 was awarded to 14 counties in the state, helping to protect and improve 19 installations, and furthering Florida's reputation as the most military friendly state in the nation.
"The military presence in Jacksonville is responsible for 110,000 jobs and $12 billion in annual economic impact," said Mayor Alvin Brown. "These numbers are growing thanks to our success in securing additional military resources, highlighted by the recent arrival of the Iwo Jima Amphibious Ready Group at Mayport. This state grant will support our ongoing efforts to advocate at the federal level for continued military growth in Jacksonville, which in turn means more economic opportunity for the people of our community."
"The military is a vital part of Jacksonville's economy," continued Mayor Brown. "This state grant will strengthen our continuing efforts to protect infrastructure and ensure the safety and effectiveness of a site that's critical to Navy flight operations in our area."
The 2014-15 Defense Grants were awarded to defense partners in the following counties: Polk, Brevard (2), Duval (2), Santa Rosa (2), Okaloosa (2), Clay (2), Pinellas, Escambia (2), Orange (2), Bay (2), Miami-Dade, Hillsborough, Walton and Highlands.
The Florida Defense Grants Programs are administered by Enterprise Florida, Inc. The grants are awarded annually through a competitive process to communities hosting military installations.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/10/14/governor-scott-announces-251000-investment-for-duval-county/
