Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Proposing 5% Pay Raise for State Law Enforcement
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Dec. 1, 2016
Location: Orlando, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that he will propose a five percent pay raise for all sworn state law enforcement officers in his 2017-2018 recommended budget. Governor Scott will recommend $11.7 million to reward these officers for their life saving work. The State of Florida has nearly 4,000 sworn state law enforcement officers who work around the clock to protect Florida communities and make sure Florida is the safest place to live and raise a family.
Governor Rick Scott said, "Since becoming Governor I have been to 32 funerals for fallen officers who died bravely in the line of duty protecting the communities we call home. I've cried with their families and seen the pain and grief in their eyes as they laid their loved one to rest. Becoming a law enforcement officer is a special calling and one that requires a conscience choice each and every day to put your life on the line to protect our communities. We must always do everything we can to recognize our law enforcement officers and let them know how much we appreciate their service.
"Today, I am proud to announce that I will propose a five percent pay raise for all sworn state law enforcement officers as part of my 2017-18 recommended budget. This year, Florida's state law enforcement officers were put to the test like never before. In June, we experienced the horrific terror attack at Pulse Nightclub in Orlando -- the deadliest mass shooting in American History. Just a few months later, two major hurricanes and a tropical storm swept across our state. In each of these storms, our brave men and women in uniform reached out a helping hand to those in need and courageously rescued many Floridians trapped by the rising water. Through these times of adversity, our state law enforcement fearlessly answered the call and put themselves in harm's way -- standing strong in the face of danger. It is thanks to their hard work and sacrifice that Florida persevered through these difficult times and has achieved a 45-year crime low -- and I am humbled by their service, dedication and fortitude."
Florida Department of Law Enforcement Commissioner Rick Swearingen said, "I applaud Governor Scott for his continued support of Florida's law enforcement community. The men and women who serve as FDLE agents and Capitol Police officers are absolutely committed to the Governor's mission of making Florida the safest state in the nation. FDLE appreciates Governor Scott's strong leadership and advocacy for law enforcement officers and their families and this proposed pay raise is a testament to the Governor's support of those in uniform."
Florida Highway Patrol Director Colonel Gene Spaulding said, "On behalf of the more than 1,900 sworn members of the Florida Highway Patrol, I applaud Governor Scott for his steadfast dedication to our state's law enforcement and proposal for a pay raise for our sworn members. Our troopers work tirelessly to patrol Florida's roadways and respond to the needs of the tens of millions of motorists that travel our roads each year. The continued support of Governor Scott is keeping our roads and communities safe."
Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission Division of Law Enforcement Director Col. Curtis Brown said, "Governor Scott understands that effective law enforcement helps make Florida the best place to live, work and raise a family. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission applauds Governor Scott's incredible support and offers our gratitude for this proposed pay raise for our dedicated law enforcement professionals."
This pay raise will include sworn officers from the following state agencies: The Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, the Florida Department of Financial Services, the Florida Lottery, the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation, the Florida Department of Legal Affairs and the Florida School for the Deaf and Blind.
Additional announcements on Governor Scott's 2017-2018 recommended budget will be made in the near future.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/12/01/gov-rick-scott-proposing-5-pay-raise-for-state-law-enforcement/
