Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Florida Gulf Coast Restoration Moving Forward
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 7, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced the funding of the third and largest set of early restoration projects, as approved by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill Natural Resource Damage Assessment Trustees. Nearly $88 million represents 28 projects, which will take place throughout many communities along the Panhandle. Additionally, two U.S. Department of the Interior projects will take place at Gulf Islands National Seashore in Escambia County and total approximately $15 million.
Governor Scott said, "Today's announcement of more than $100 million in funding is great news for families in the Panhandle. We must protect our state's natural treasures so future generations of Floridians will be able to enjoy our state's great natural treasures."
Across the five Gulf States, $627 million will be allocated to implement 44 projects that will continue restoration of the natural resources and associated lost recreational services, which were affected by the spill. This third phase of early restoration includes many proposals suggested by Florida citizens, such as oyster and scallop restoration, seagrass restoration, artificial reefs, living shorelines, recreational beach restoration and state park improvements. Public comment was essential to the development of the final plan and projects.
On April 20, 2011, BP agreed to provide $1 billion in early restoration funds to the Natural Resource Damage Assessment Trustees for early restoration projects. The Department of Environmental Protection and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission have trustee representatives for the state of Florida. With the third phase of early restoration, Florida's portion, $100 million, will be completely funded; however, state officials will continue to participate in developing projects for the federal agencies to propose for implementation in Florida.
Senate President Don Gaetz said, "My hope -- and that of all Northwest Floridians--is that these projects selected by local leaders will produce a true return-on-investment and be managed with careful stewardship."

Source:
