Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Expansion of LabTech Software in Tampa
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 30, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that LabTech Software, the only remote monitoring and management (RMM) platform developed by an IT service provider for IT service providers, will expand its operations in Tampa. The company will create up to 100 new corporate headquarters jobs and create $643,750 in capital investment. The positions will fill a variety of key roles, including software development, sales, client support and marketing that allow the company to meet a growing demand for its services.
Governor Scott said, "LabTech's expansion and creation of 100 new jobs means even more Floridians in the Tampa area will be able to provide for their families and live the American Dream. We've worked hard to create an opportunity economy with jobs for the next generation, and thanks to companies like LabTech, Florida businesses have created 643,100 private-sector jobs since December 2010."
Founded in 2004, LabTech Software is the RMM platform of choice for more than 4,200 IT service providers worldwide. The product is designed to help global IT solutions providers transform their IT services business into successful managed services operations, delivering tools to effectively monitor and manage both physical and virtual IT environments through a single console, automate any IT task, resolve issues without interrupting the end-users' abilities to work, and much more.
"We're excited that LabTech Software is able to contribute to the continued expansion of IT jobs in the Tampa Bay area," said Matt Nachtrab, CEO, LabTech Software. "Tampa has become our home and we're thrilled that our commitment to the growth of the LabTech product and our commitment to the local economy can go hand-in-hand."
In July, LabTech Software was recognized as one of the fastest growing privately held businesses in Tampa Bay. The company currently employs more than 350 worldwide, with a majority located at its primary facility on George Road in Tampa.
Florida is ranked third in the nation for high-tech establishments. In addition, the state's software and computer systems design and integration industry is one of the largest in the U.S., with nearly 12,600 firms. Almost half of the more than 80,000 professionals who work in the field are employed by software development firms, with the rest working in related technology-intensive industries. Florida ranks second in the nation for tech job growth, and the Florida High Tech Corridor, anchored by the Tampa Bay region, has been named one of the top tech job hot spots in the United States. The Tampa metro area is home to approximately 20 percent of Florida's IT positions. In the past five years, local IT jobs have grown at nearly twice the rate of overall average job growth, and are projected to increase by 10 percent over the next five year period.
"Florida's IT sector continues to grow and impact the state's economy thanks to companies like LabTech Software. Because of Florida's resources, including a top-ranked workforce, expansive infrastructure and strategic partnerships, LabTech has the opportunity to thrive in our state. We continue to work toward making Florida's IT industry the best in the country and look forward to seeing LabTech's success." said Gray Swoope, President & CEO of Enterprise Florida.
This project was made possible with the help of Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation, Hillsborough County and the City of Tampa.
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "The expansion of LabTech Software is exciting news for Florida families in the Tampa region. We are continuing to see job growth in the STEM-related fields in the state as a result of our investment in a business-friendly environment, infrastructure, and workforce training. The creation of an additional 100 information technology jobs in Florida represents another step forward in the economic resurgence of the Sunshine State."
"Information technology is the cornerstone of the innovation economy," said the Hon. Mark Sharpe, Chairman of the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners. "We're committed to promoting the growth of this industry in Hillsborough County, and ensuring the continued success of existing local businesses like LabTech Software."
LabTech Software joins a growing list of companies that have recently made the decision to expand their IT workforce in Tampa and Hillsborough County, including Tribridge, Peak 10, ConnectWise, Cardinal Solutions Group, DTCC and OpenText.
"Companies like LabTech Software are bringing the jobs of tomorrow to Tampa today," said Mayor Bob Buckhorn, City of Tampa. "We're working hard to build a stronger, more diverse economy, and will continue to do all we can to support the success and expansion of our local IT industry."
"The competition for IT jobs is fierce, and this project was no exception," said Allen Brinkman, Chair of the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation and Chairman, President & CEO of SunTrust Bank Tampa Bay. "Thanks to the support of our state and local partners, LabTech Software selected Tampa in favor of potential locations in Ohio, Massachusetts and London, proving the Tampa Bay region is a premiere destination for high-tech business growth."
LabTech Software is the developer of the only remote monitoring and management (RMM) platform developed for IT service providers by IT service providers. Designed and developed by system administrators with years of experience in the IT services industry, the LabTech remote monitoring and management platform is focused to drive the power of IT automation. This affordable agent-based platform closely emulates what technicians do in the field by performing IT support and management tasks and processes remotely, efficiently and non-intrusively. LabTech is the most powerful, feature-rich and widely sought RMM platform in the IT service provider space worldwide today.
Enterprise Florida, Inc. (EFI) is a partnership between Florida's businesses and government leaders and is the principal economic development organization for the state of Florida. EFI facilitates job growth for Florida businesses through recruitment and retention, international trade and exporting, promotion of sporting events, and capital funding programs to assist small and minority businesses.
Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation is the lead economic development agency for Hillsborough County and the cities of Tampa, Plant City and Temple Terrace. Established in 2009 as a partnership between the public sector and private corporate investors, the EDC works to develop and sustain a thriving local economy through the attraction, retention and expansion of high-wage jobs and capital investment within targeted industry sectors. Working with C-level executives, site selection consultants, commercial real estate professionals and other influential decision-makers, the EDC provides customized, confidential relocation services to domestic and international companies interested in growing within Hillsborough County. Locally, the EDC helps existing businesses access the tools and resources they need to succeed, now and in the future.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/09/30/governor-scott-announces-expansion-of-labtech-software-in-tampa/
