Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces GE Oil & Gas to Create at Least 500 Jobs in Jacksonville
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 26, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that GE Oil & Gas will open a new advanced manufacturing facility in Jacksonville. The project will create at least 500 jobs over the next three years and a capital investment of more than $50 million in Duval County.
Governor Scott said, "The new GE Oil & Gas facility in Jacksonville will bring at least 500 jobs, giving even more Florida families the opportunity to live the American Dream. Last year we eliminated the sales tax on manufacturing equipment in order to build up manufacturing in our state, and now businesses like GE Oil & Gas can save money and be more competitive. Florida businesses have already created more than 640,000 private-sector jobs since December 2010, so let's keep working to provide even more opportunities for Florida families."
GE Oil & Gas is a world leader in advanced technology equipment and services for all segments of the oil and gas industry, from drilling and production, LNG, pipelines and storage to industrial power generation, refining and petrochemicals. GE Oil & Gas also provides pipeline integrity solutions, including inspection and data management, and designs and manufactures wire-line and drilling measurement solutions for the oilfield services segment. The site is expected to open in November 2014 and will manufacture GE's Mooney regulators and Becker control valves, among other oil and gas industry products. The company will create up to 500 manufacturing, administrative, engineering and other functional roles within the next three years.
"GE is committed to innovation in the technology solutions we develop, as well as delivering operational excellence for our customers with the upmost focus on quality and safety," said Chuck Nugent, Vice President of Manufacturing, GE Oil & Gas. "The new Jacksonville facility provides us the opportunity to use advanced manufacturing practices to meet our customers' growing technology needs faster, while bringing new job opportunities to Jacksonville."

Source:
