Public Statements
Gov Scott: Sales Tax- Free Holiday on Energy-Efficient Appliances Begins Today
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 19, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Scott reminds Florida families of the three-day sales tax-free holiday for energy efficient appliances, such as New Energy Star and WaterSense products, beginning Friday, September 19. The tax-free holiday is part of the $500 million reduction in taxes and fees included in the It's Your Money Tax Cut Budget, and is expected to save Floridians $1.7 million.
Governor Scott said, "During the sales-tax holiday, Floridians will be able to save money on the energy-efficient appliances they need for their homes and businesses. Because families deserve to keep more of their hard earned money in their own pockets, this is the third sales tax-free holiday this year. Let's keep working to keep the cost of living low for Florida families for generations to come."
During the holiday period, no sales or local option tax will be charged on the first $1,500 of the sales price of a new qualifying Energy Star or WaterSense product. The exemption is limited to a single purchase for each type of qualifying item having a sales price of $500 or more. There are no quantity limits on qualifying items with a sales price of less than $500.
An Energy Star item must be designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the United States Department of Energy as meeting or exceeding the requirements under the Energy Star Program, and must have an Energy Star label affixed to the product. Items such as air purifiers, ceiling fans, clothes washers, dehumidifiers, dishwashers, freezers, light bulbs, refrigerators, room air conditioners, swimming pool pumps and water heaters are examples of qualifying Energy Star Products.
A WaterSense item must be recognized as water efficient by the WaterSense Program sponsored by the EPA and a WaterSense label must be affixed to the product. Qualifying products include bathroom sink faucets, faucet accessories, high-efficiency toilets, showerheads, and weather or sensor-based irrigation controllers.
Qualifying items purchased by mail order, catalog, or through the internet are exempt when the order is accepted by the company during the holiday period for immediate shipment, even if delivery is made after the holiday period.
Earlier sales tax-free holidays this year included sales tax-free days for youth bicycle helmets, child restraint systems and booster seats in July and school supplies in August.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/09/19/gov-scott-sales-tax-free-holiday-on-energy-efficient-appliances-begins-today/
