Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announces Manufacturing Company to Locate in Ocala
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 12, 2014
Location: Unknown

Just In Time Machining, LLC, to create 25 jobs and a capital investment of $3.205 million
Today, Governor Rick Scott announced Just In Time (JIT) Machining, LLC, will locate its new production facility in Ocala. The company's first Florida facility will create 25 manufacturing jobs and a capital investment of at least $3.2 million.
Governor Scott said, "Just In Time's decision to locate its new production facility in Ocala is great news for Florida families. Every job positively impacts a family, and these 25 new jobs will allow more Floridians to provide for their families and live the American Dream. Last year, we rolled back the sales tax on manufacturing equipment and machinery for Florida's manufacturing companies like JIT. Since December 2010, we've created 620,300 private-sector jobs and we will continue working to create opportunities for each Floridian that wants a job."
Since its founding in 1996, JIT has applied its focus on being a full-service, family-owned, CNC or automated machinery shop providing prototyping, CNC and CNC-turn mill machining, drilling, milling, turning and sawing, welding and metal fabrication. The production facility will serve the company's southeast customers. JIT chose Ocala over Georgia, Alabama, and Texas because of Ocala's workforce, CNC skills training program, central location, and Florida's low cost of doing business.
President and CEO of JIT, Kelly Alexander said, "We have found Ocala and the state of Florida to be an ideal location for our new manufacturing facility. Ocala's central location, I-75 access, and a developed manufacturing workforce make it an idea location to serve our customers in the southeastern United States."
Florida's advanced manufacturing industries are diverse and include sectors producing intermediate and finished products ranging from plastics to tortillas and motor vehicles. In total, Florida is home to more than 18,200 manufacturers employing some 317,000 workers. Because JIT chose Florida for locating its manufacturing facility, the company will save $120,000 from the exemption of sales tax on manufacturing equipment.
President and CEO of Enterprise Florida, Gray Swoope said, "JIT's new manufacturing facility in Ocala will add value to Florida's growing manufacturing industry. The removal of the M&E sales tax is already creating increased interest in Florida as a location for manufacturers. News of that tax removal spread quickly and, when coupled with our strong workforce, low cost of living and quality life, makes it hard for businesses to pass up Florida when looking to locate or expand."
This project was made possible with the help of close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, the City of Ocala, Marion County and the Ocala Chamber and Economic Partnership (CEP).
Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "As the state's economic turnaround story continues, more businesses across the nation are recognizing Florida as the best state in the nation to start or grow a business, live, work, and play. JIT's new manufacturing operation in Ocala will bring new jobs, investment, and vigor to the area and is evidence that the pro-growth, business-friendly policies of this administration continue to produce results."
"The city is pleased to continue partnering with the Ocala CEP by awarding a Small Business Investment Program grant to Just In Time CNC Machining, LLC," said Ocala City Council President, John McLeod. "We are excited to welcome this new business to our community."
"We are proud to officially welcome a new manufacturing company, Just in Time Machining, to Marion County. Their CNC machine shop will bring 25 new full-time jobs to our local workforce with an average salary of $37,000 for CNC operators. Our Board's commitment of a $40,000 Economic Development Financial Incentive Grant will support capital improvements at the company's new facility. Knowing that Just in Time also considered Texas, Georgia and Alabama as possible locations, we are so pleased that they will be opening for business here in Ocala," said Carl Zalak III, Chairman of the Marion County Board of County Commissioners.
"The Ocala CEP is pleased to welcome another manufacturer to our community," said Doug Cone, CEP Chairman of the Board. "We are continuing to implement our Moving Forward plan by adding another company in one of our targeted sectors of aerospace/aviation paying wages at and above our wage goal.
Just In Time Machining (JIT) is a family-owned, CNC shop providing prototyping, CNC and CNC-turn mill machining, drilling, milling, turning and sawing, welding and metal fabrication. They have production facilities in Rochester and Dansville, New York. They were founded in 1996.
Enterprise Florida, Inc. (EFI) is a partnership between Florida's businesses and government leaders and is the principal economic development organization for the state of Florida. EFI facilitates job growth for Florida businesses through recruitment and retention, international trade and exporting, promotion of sporting events, and capital funding programs to assist small and minority businesses.
The Ocala/Marion County Chamber and Economic Partnership (CEP) was created to be a one-stop hub for the community's business attraction, creation and retention efforts. The CEP's mission is to be THE catalyst for a prosperous community. The Moving Forward plan seeks to impact the creation of 3500 new jobs with wages 15% above the county average and resulting in a capital investment of $225 million by 2018.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/09/12/governor-rick-scott-announces-manufacturing-company-to-locate-in-ocala/
