Public Statements
Gov. Scott and FWC Announce New License-Free Saltwater Fishing Day Sept. 6
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Sept. 4, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Scott and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC) announced that Saturday, September 6, visitors and residents are invited to participate in a saltwater license-free fishing day. On this day, the requirement to have a recreational saltwater fishing license is waived. All other regulations such as seasons, size limits and bag limits still apply on these license free days.
Governor Scott said, "The license-free fishing day is a great opportunity for families to enjoy the incredible saltwater fishing opportunities that Florida has to offer. Florida is the fishing capital of the world and a license-free day is the perfect opportunity to try fishing for the first time. I hope Florida's families use this Saturday to enjoy our waters and great weather while catching some fish."
"This is an excellent opportunity to enjoy the fun and togetherness of a fishing trip with friends and family or put a rod and reel in the hands of someone who has never experienced the excitement of a big fish on the line," said FWC Chairman Richard "Dick" Corbett.
Fishing is a low-cost, wholesome outdoor activity, which is why the FWC offers a total of eight days each year when a recreational fishing license is not needed. Can't make the September license-free fishing day? Annually, the first Saturday after Thanksgiving (Nov. 29, 2014) has also been designated a saltwater license-free fishing day. The first Saturday and Sunday in April (April 4-5, 2015) are the next license-free freshwater fishing days.
Visit MyFWC.com/Fishing for fishing tips, locations and rules, and learn more about license-free fishing days by visiting MyFWC.com/License and clicking on "Do I Need One?" and "Free Fishing Days."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/09/04/gov-scott-and-fwc-announce-new-license-free-saltwater-fishing-day-sept-6/
