Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Motor Vehicle Fee Reduction Effective Next Week
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 27, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted that the reductions in Florida's motor vehicle registration fees are set to take effect on September 1. Floridians will save approximately $17 to $25 when renewing their registrations, depending on the size of vehicle. The fee reductions were proposed by Governor Scott earlier this year as part of the It's Your Money Tax Cut Budget, and were approved by the Florida Legislature during the 2014 legislative session. While the reductions will save Floridians millions of dollars each year, it will not affect the level of service provided by the Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles.
Governor Scott said, "This year, we set out to cut many taxes and fees on Florida families, and starting next week we are rolling back many of the 2009 tax increases on annual motor vehicle registrations. This fee cut will result in an annual savings of about $25 per typical motor vehicle. Families deserve to keep more of their hard earned money, and we will now be able to save Floridians $400 million, because it's their money!"
"The reduction in vehicle registration fees will benefit both individuals, as well as the Florida business community," said DHSMV Executive Director Terry L. Rhodes. "There are more than 14 million registered vehicles here in Florida that are covered by these fee reductions and that is a lot of savings for the people of Florida."
The following are examples of the savings on vehicle registration fees as a result of the reductions:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
The reductions will apply to vehicle registrations renewed on or after September 1, 2014.
The Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles provides highway safety and security through excellence in service, education and enforcement. The Department is leading the way to a safer Florida through the efficient and professional execution of its core mission: the issuance of driver licenses, vehicle tags and titles and operation of the Florida Highway Patrol. To learn more about DHSMV and the services offered, visit www.flhsmv.gov, follow us on Twitter @FLHSMV or find us on Facebook.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/08/27/gov-scott-motor-vehicle-fee-reduction-effective-next-week/
