Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Design Interactive to Create 20 Jobs in Orlando
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Aug. 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Design Interactive will expand in Orange County. The company specializes in human-systems integration, including human performance assessment, training systems design and evaluation and usability engineering for the defense industry, other federal agencies and the commercial sector. The project will create at least 20 high-wage engineering and support positions and a capital investment of $800,000.
Governor Scott said, "Design Interactive's expansion is great news for Florida families, and 20 new jobs will be created for families in the Orlando area. With the help of businesses like Design Interactive, we are continuing to build an opportunity economy in Florida. Let's keep working so Florida families and businesses have every opportunity to succeed, invest in their future and live the American Dream."
Founded in 1998 as a woman-owned small business by Kay Stanney, Design Interactive creates software solutions that are commercial, research and government contract-related. The jobs created as a result of this expansion will be mostly Ph.D.-level jobs that specialize in human-systems integration research and development (R&D). As a result of its expansion, Design Interactive is moving its operations to a larger facility in Orlando after also considering Virginia and Washington D.C.
"Due to our strong, continued growth over the past three years, we are looking to add design, engineering and computer programming staff to our vibrant team," said Stanney, President of Design Interactive.
Design Interactive's human-systems R&D focuses on providing adaptive, engaging solutions that optimize human performance and profoundly enhance the user experience. To compete on a national level, Design Interactive employs a team drawn from a variety of industry experience and academic backgrounds, including a software team, psychologists, human factor engineers, computer engineers and industrial engineers.
Florida consistently ranks among the top five states in the nation in the receipt of Department of Defense contract awards. Florida defense and homeland security industry boasts more than 50,000 current defense professionals, more than 42,000 active duty military and large numbers of former military and NASA personnel comprise our impressive pool of workers with the skills and security clearances in demand by industry employers.
"Florida is home to one of the nation's largest defense and homeland security industries, and few states can even come close to matching the scale and scope of our network of major contractors and suppliers," said Secretary of Commerce Gray Swoope, who serves as President and CEO of Enterprise Florida. "The expansion of Design Interactive in Orlando is proof that Florida has the workforce and perfect business climate for companies to succeed."
This project was made possible with the help of close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Orlando Economic Development Commission, Orange County and the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity.
"Florida's skilled labor force and strong support for the defense and homeland-security industries have created an opportunity economy for businesses like Design Interactive. Design Interactive's decision to expand in Orlando will further Florida's reputation as a military-friendly state," said Jesse Panuccio, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity.
"We are thrilled to have Design Interactive become a part of the Orange County community," said Orange County Mayor Teresa Jacobs. "We have the world's largest cluster of Modeling, Simulation and Training companies and this project really adds to that incredible asset. Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, and we look forward to working with Design Interactive as they grow their business."
"Orlando is the global capital for Modeling, Simulation and Training, with companies working alongside both military and commercial partners. Design Interactive's expansion to grow its commercial customer base is evidence of the incredible synergies between industry, military and academia that are driving this industry's strength in our region," said Rick Weddle, President and CEO of the Orlando Economic Development Commission.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/08/14/governor-scott-announces-design-interactive-to-create-20-jobs-in-orlando/
