Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Northeast Florida Added 25,000 Jobs Over the Year
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 18, 2016
Location: St. Augustine, FL

Governor Rick Scott announced today that Northeast Florida, which includes the Jacksonville and St. Augustine areas, added 25,000 new private-sector jobs over the year in October. The area's unemployment rate was 4.7 percent in October, a decline of 0.1 percentage point in the last year. Florida businesses created 8,900 private-sector jobs across the state during October 2016, bringing the total number of jobs created since December 2010 to 1,232,400 jobs. Governor Scott made the announcement at Ideal Aluminum, an aluminum manufacturer in St. Augustine. The company has created more than 30 jobs in the past two years and currently employs more than 110 Floridians.
Governor Scott said, "I was proud to visit Ideal Aluminum today, a manufacturer that has created more than 110 jobs for families in St. Augustine. In the last year, 25,000 new jobs were created by businesses like Ideal Aluminum in Northeast Florida, which is great news. We will continue to do all we can to make Florida the most business-friendly state in the nation so job creators can continue to invest in our state and provide more opportunities for our families."
Ideal Aluminum Products manufactures aluminum fence, gates and railing in residential, commercial and industrial grades. The company sells its products, all of which are made in the U.S., to distributors and contractors in approximately 25 states and also exports internationally.
Doug Brady, co-owner of Ideal Aluminum, said, "We are overwhelmed with the honor of Governor Scott's visit and the recognition given to Ideal. This recognition actually validates the real value of our business- our great people. To know we have had a positive impact on so many is the greatest reward."
Michael Siegel, co-owner of Ideal Aluminum, said, "Today we are humbled. This visit and what we have accomplished together with the State of Florida and St. Johns County validates that the entrepreneurial and financial risks we took have been worthwhile."
The industries with the largest job gains in the Jacksonville area over the year were leisure and hospitality with 5,100 new jobs and professional and business services with 4,500 new jobs. The Jacksonville area remains among the top five metro areas in job demand, with 18,335 openings, including 5,218 job openings in high-skill, high-wage STEM occupations.
The state's unemployment rate was 4.8 percent in October, as a result of the rapidly growing labor force which nearly doubled over the month. For the 55th consecutive month, Florida's annual job growth rate of 3.3 percent is exceeding the nation's rate of 1.8 percent. Nearly 38,000 Floridians were placed in jobs by CareerSource Northeast Florida and the state's other 23 regional workforce boards.
To view the October 2016 employment data visit www.floridajobs.org/labor-market-information/labor-market-information-press-releases/monthly-press-releases.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/11/18/gov-scott-northeast-florida-added-25000-jobs-over-the-year/
