Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announces Expansion of GE Energy Management in Clearwater
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 24, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that GE's Energy Management business will create a new 190,000 square feet manufacturing Center of Excellence (COE) in Clearwater. The COE will include the existing instrument transformer facility as well as new manufacturing operations for capacitors. The expansion encompasses a capital investment of $50 million that will create 250 new jobs.
Governor Scott said, "General Electric Energy Management's investment in Clearwater is great news for Florida families. The creation of 250 jobs means more Floridians will be able to provide for their families and pursue their dreams in the Sunshine state. Florida businesses have already created more than 620,000 private-sector jobs since December 2010, and we will continue to create an opportunity economy where every Floridian can love the American Dream."
The company currently manufactures instrument transformers for use by utilities and industrial customers to protect their equipment and ensure the safe and reliable operation of electrical systems.
"Thanks to the support from Governor Scott, Commissioner Roche and Mayor Cretekos, we are well positioned to more quickly deliver improved outcomes for our customers and solve some of the world's toughest energy problems," said GE Energy Management CEO Mark Begor. "From this facility, we'll serve customers as close as Duke Energy right here in Florida, and as far away as Southeast Asia and South America."
Florida is home to industry leading producers of power generation systems, a variety of solar technology companies, biofuel producers, and battery and fuel cell manufacturers. The depth and breadth of Florida's cleantech industry base can help businesses find the talent and suppliers to succeed.
"The expansion of GE Energy Management in Clearwater is a great boost for Florida's cleantech and manufacturing industries," said president and CEO of Enterprise Florida Gray Swoope. "Florida's position in both industries is rising as more and more companies in those sectors look to locate and expand here. World leaders like GE have been leading the energy industry from Florida for decades and we look forward to their continued growth."
This project was made possible with the help of close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the City of Clearwater, Pinellas County, Duke Energy, Pinellas County Economic Development and the Department of Economic Opportunity.
Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio said, "GE Energy Management's expansion is another win for Florida's resurgent economy and a return on our investment in the state's manufacturing industry. This is further evidence that the pro-growth and business-friendly policies of this administration are bringing high-quality jobs to Florida families in Clearwater and across the state."
Clearwater Mayor George Cretekos said, "The City of Clearwater is committed to expanding job opportunities, and this investment by GE in our community will provide economic benefits to the entire Tampa Bay area."
"We're so pleased to welcome these new jobs and to celebrate GE Energy Management's expansion and newest manufacturing "Center for Excellence' in Pinellas County," said Pinellas County Commissioner Norm Roche. "Manufacturing in Pinellas is a point of pride, and GE's innovators here in Clearwater are an important part of over 30,000 experienced manufacturing professionals in our county."
"We value our partnership with The City of Clearwater and commend their leadership and shared focus on economic development," said Alex Glenn, Duke Energy state president -- Florida. "They acted quickly to assemble the right partners to win the GE expansion, and we appreciate being a part of the team from the beginning. The GE expansion is a win for the City, the County and the Tampa Bay region resulting in new high-wage jobs and significant capital investment."
GE's new manufacturing COE is expected to be fully operational by the fourth quarter of 2015.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/07/24/governor-rick-scott-announces-expansion-of-ge-energy-management-in-clearwater/
