Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Fee Reductions for Various Real Estate Licensees
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 23, 2014
Location: Unknown

The Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation (DBPR) is introducing permanent fee cuts for Florida Real Estate Commission licensees this month. Effective July 1, 2014, these permanent fee reductions will save real estate licensees on average more than $2.7 million every year on initial and renewal licensure fees. Impacted real estate licensees will include brokers, sales associates, corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies (LLCs), limited liability partnerships and real estate instructors and schools.
Governor Scott said, "We have worked hard to reduce fees and regulations on Florida's job creators, and this fee reduction will total more than $2.7 million that Florida's real estate industry will be able to save. Lower fees will allow the real estate licensees to reinvest into their businesses and continue growing jobs for Florida families. I thank DBPR and the Florida Real Estate Commission for joining our mission to keep Floridians' hard earned money in their own pockets."
"I commend the Florida Real Estate Commission's decision to reduce the licensure fees for real estate applicants and licensees," said DBPR Secretary Ken Lawson. "Lower fees will enable the real estate industry to flourish in the state and make it easier for our current licensees to grow with Florida's improving economy."
"DBPR's revenue is generated directly from the pockets of hardworking Florida licensees, not sales tax revenues. These permanent fee cuts provide a tangible impact on the hundreds of thousands of Floridians whose livelihoods depend on the success and growth of the real estate industry. Real estate professionals across the state are very appreciative of these reductions," stated John Sebree, Senior Vice President of Public Policy at the Florida Realtors Association.
Real estate sales associates and brokers will see permanent reductions in the initial licensure fees and biennial renewal fees effective July 1, 2014. The initial licensure fees and biennial renewal fees for sales associates, brokers and branch office brokers will be reduced by 20 percent.

Source:
