Public Statements
Second Annual Paychecks for Patriots Hiring Events to Take Place Statewide
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 15, 2014
Location: Unknown

Tomorrow, Governor Rick Scott, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, the Florida Department of Veterans' Affairs, Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR), and the Florida National Guard will partner with Dollar General and nearly 500 participating employers throughout the state to connect Florida's veterans and their families with immediate career opportunities through 17 Paychecks for Patriots regional events. Governor Scott also proclaimed tomorrow, July 16, as Paychecks for Patriots Day.
Governor Scott said, "The Paychecks for Patriots hiring events provide our veterans with great opportunities to find a job and provide for their families. We are working to be the most military-friendly and veteran-friendly state in the nation, and this is another way in which Florida supports the brave men and women who have selflessly served our country."
At 18 locations throughout the state tomorrow, as well two virtual hiring fairs, Paychecks for Patriots will match veterans and their families with employers who value knowledge, skills, and attributes attained during military experience. Some of this year's statewide participating employers will include: Bank of America, Comcast, Dollar General, Edward Jones, Wal-Mart, Wells Fargo, Macy's, UPS, and many more. Plus, many local community employers will participate in their local event.
Last year's nine event locations hosted more than 1,500 veterans with more than 200 employers participating and resulted in nearly 500 placements across the state.
Lt. Governor Carlos Lopez-Cantera, who will attend the Tallahassee event, said, "I am honored to attend the Tallahassee Paychecks for Patriots event and witness first-hand the connection of our local veterans to employers who are looking to invest in their valuable skills."
Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Executive Director Jesse Panuccio, who will attend the Ft. Lauderdale event, said, "We are honored to again coordinate the Paychecks for Patriots hiring events and are very appreciative of the support from state and local agencies, businesses, and the military community. Florida veterans are hardworking, well-trained, loyal employees, and it is a privilege to help them find rewarding jobs in our state."
Florida Department of Veterans' Affairs Executive Director Mike Prendergast, who will attend the New Port Richey event, said, "With the continued drawdown of military forces, we will continue to see more and more veterans looking for employment after they get out of the military. We're confident that the annual statewide collaboration of public, private and government organizations is one of the most effective and expeditious ways to match skilled veterans with meaningful, long-term employment in Florida."
Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation Secretary Ken Lawson, who will attend the Jacksonville event, said "As a veteran, I am proud to participate in Paychecks for Patriots and see this as a great initiative that is moving Florida another step closer to being the most military-friendly state in the country. Through the Florida GI Bill signed by Governor Scott, it is now easier than ever for military personnel, veterans and military spouses to enter licensed professions in Florida, includhttp://www.flgov.com/2014/07/15/second-annual-paychecks-for-patriots-hiring-events-to-take-place-statewide/ing real estate, construction services, cosmetology and more. At DBPR, fees are waived for professional licenses within 60 months of anyone who has been honorably discharged from the Armed Forces. And for the first time, active Florida National Guard members will be reimbursed for continuing education fees and examination fees. Reducing fees and regulatory burdens helps our veterans get to work in our great state easily and affordably making Florida a number one destination for our brothers and sisters in uniform."
CareerSource Florida President and CEO Chris Hart IV said, "The CareerSource Florida network is honored to host the second annual Paychecks for Patriots job-matching event at locations throughout the state on July 16 to connect interested veterans with immediate employment opportunities. We are privileged to serve those who have so nobly served us. Our regional partners also provide Local Veterans Employment Representatives and Disabled Veterans Outreach Program specialists year-round to connect veterans with employment and training opportunities, and the Military Family Employment Advocacy Program to deliver priority workforce services for active duty military spouses and family members near Florida's major military installations."
Tomorrow's Paychecks for Patriots hiring event locations included:
ARCADIA - CareerSource Heartland
CRESTVIEW - CareerSource Okaloosa Walton
FORT LAUDERDALE - CareerSource Broward
JACKSONVILLE - CareerSource Northeast Florida
LAKE CITY - CareerSource Florida Crown
LAKELAND - CareerSource Polk
LEESBURG - CareerSource Central Florida
MADISON - CareerSource North Florida
NAPLES - CareerSource Southwest Florida
NEW PORT RICHEY - CareerSource Pasco Hernando
ORANGE CITY - CareerSource Flagler Volusia
ORLANDO - CareerSource Central Florida
ROCKLEDGE - CareerSource Brevard
SARASOTA - CareerSource Suncoast
SEBRING - CareerSource Heartland
TALLAHASSEE - CareerSource Capital Region
WAUCHULA - CareerSource Heartland
Veterans or their family members interested in pursuing Florida career opportunities who are unable to attend a Paychecks for Patriots hiring event can view and apply for available positions online at www.employflorida.com. A special employment portal for Florida's Veterans is always available at https://www.employflorida.com/portals/veteran/Default.asp with positions and resources geared towards Veterans. DEO's Veterans Employment Program promotes the employment of Florida's veterans, especially veterans with barriers to employment. For more information on the program, visit http://www.floridajobs.org/office-directory/division-of-workforce-services/workforce-programs/veterans-employment-program. Since January 1, Florida's CareerSource regions have placed more than 14,200 veterans into jobs.
About DEO
The Florida Department of Economic Opportunity combines the state's economic, workforce, and community development efforts. This new approach helps expedite economic development projects to fuel job creation in competitive communities. For more information, including valuable resources for employers and job seekers, please visit www.floridajobs.org.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/07/15/second-annual-paychecks-for-patriots-hiring-events-to-take-place-statewide/
