Public Statements
Gov. Scott Reminds Floridians to Get A Plan
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 15, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott was joined today by state and local emergency management officials to remind Floridians that hurricane season has already started and now is the time to get a plan if they don't have one already. Hurricane season extends from June 1 through November 30 and covers the time frame when hurricanes are most likely to form in the Atlantic Ocean.
Governor Scott said, "With the 2014 hurricane season underway, I want to encourage every family to get a plan. So far this year, there has been one named storm--Hurricane Arthur--and Florida was lucky that we were not directly impacted by it. But, Hurricane Arthur should serve as a reminder for everyone to get a plan if they don't already have one. Preparing for the upcoming hurricane season should be a priority for every Florida family, and we must take action now before it's too late."
Floridians and visitors are advised to develop a plan centered on self-sustainability for the first 72 hours following a disaster. FloridaDisaster.org includes valuable information on building a plan for individuals, families and businesses, taking into account those with special needs, persons with pets, and the elderly.
FDEM Director Bryan W. Koon said, "Hurricane Arthur was the first named storm of the season, and at its closest, it was less than 85, miles from our coast. Hurricane Arthur didn't impact us significantly, but it did underscore the need for all Florida families, visitors and businesses to get a plan and to be prepared for when severe weather does strike us."
Representative Dana Young, Majority Whip, said, "Hurricane season started back in June, but I'm sure many Floridians still don't have a plan. I can't stress enough how important it is to account for what you will do with your family and your pets when the next hurricane comes our way."
Maj. Gen. Emmett R. Titshaw, Jr., Adjutant General of Florida said, "The Florida National Guard, alongside other Florida first responders, remains ready to safeguard our citizens. We've conducted numerous exercises over the past several months to minimize complacency and maximize our readiness."
To get tips on how you can protect your family, visit www.FloridaDisaster.org. This website will provide critical tips for supplies, including:
Water -- one gallon per person, per day, with a three day supply
Batteries and flashlight for each person
All Hazards Radio -- in a disaster you will be able to receive important updates from the National Weather Service
Battery or hand-powered radios -- to receive valuable information from local radio stations
First Aid kits
Other important items to include are canned or non-perishable foods, clothing, blankets and pillows, extra set of house and car keys, and activities for children.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/07/15/gov-scott-reminds-floridians-to-get-a-plan/
