Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Advanced IT Concepts Corporate Headquarters Expansion in Winter Springs
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: July 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Advanced IT Concepts, Inc. (AITC) will expand its corporate headquarters in Seminole County. AITC provides systems integration, professional services and value-added resale of Information Technology (IT) solutions to both the government and private sectors.
The expansion in Winter Springs will bring 50 new jobs and a capital investment of $1.87 million, including land, to the area over the next five years.
Governor Scott said, "AITC's addition of 50 jobs in Seminole County is great news. Now more Floridians will have the opportunity find a job and support their families. Since December 2010 Florida businesses like AITC have created more than 580,000 private-sector jobs. This announcement is further proof that Florida is the best place in the nation to get a job and raise a family."
Founded in 2010, AITC is a Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business and is among the fastest-growing small businesses in Seminole County. It was recently named by the Orlando Business Journal as one of Central Florida's 50 fastest-growing, privately owned companies and ranked 39th for fastest-growing small business in Florida. AITC considered moving to Texas, Georgia, North Carolina and Virginia but chose Florida for its expansion to better suit the company's clients.
"We sincerely thank Governor Scott, his team and Seminole County government for providing the environment, resources and support needed for this significant step. The support received by AITC will allow us to focus on growing the company and creating new jobs to better serve our clients," said Gabriel Ruiz, AITC's President and CEO.
AITC was founded by former military IT professionals to assist customers through the design and implementation of innovative IT solutions for the defense industry. AITC draws on significant telecommunications and IT experience to provide advisory services, strategic planning, program management, system deployment and technology specialists, as well as engineering, logistics and training support.
Florida's high-tech economy and workforce make it a great location for homeland security and defense businesses looking for workers with the expertise needed to compete in this rapidly-evolving industry. Florida is ranked third in the nation for high-tech establishments. In addition, the state's software and computer systems design and integration industry is one of the largest in the U.S., with nearly 12,600 firms. Nearly half of the more than 80,000 professionals who work in the field are employed by software development firms, with the rest working in related technology-intensive industries throughout the state.
Enterprise Florida's President and CEO, Gray Swoope, said, "AITC adds value to several of Florida's industries. This expansion is great for Florida's IT and defense sector, and the company has proven its ability to thrive as a small business in the Sunshine State. Florida's resources, including a strong workforce, expansive infrastructure and strategic partnerships, have created one of the top business climates in the country. We're excited to see the growth of AITC and I look forward to their continued success."
This project was made possible with the help of close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Orlando Economic Development Commission, Seminole County and the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity.
"AITC's story of growth as a Florida business is confirmation that our sound economic policies and business-friendly environment are working. The accomplishments achieved by AITC's founders demonstrate that Florida is a great place for veterans to start or grow their businesses. Florida's economy is a place where everyone has the opportunity to succeed through innovation, creativity, and hard work," said Jesse Panuccio, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity.
"On behalf of Seminole County, I am excited to welcome Advanced IT Concepts, Inc. to our community. AITC's decision to relocate to Seminole County means increased opportunities for Seminole County area residents, and is a testament to the pro-business atmosphere we continually strive to foster," said Seminole County Chairman Bob Dallari.
"Orlando is a world leader in defense technology -- by both large and enterprising small businesses. We're pleased with AITC's decision to expand locally and create jobs that will bolster our region's reputation as a premier location for innovation and skilled workforce," said Rick Weddle, President and CEO of the Orlando Economic Development Commission.
AITC was founded by former Military IT professionals to assist customers through the design and implementation of innovative IT solutions. AITC is a SDVOSB and SBA 8(a) Certified IT Systems Integrator, Value-Add Reseller and Service Provider to government and private sectors.
Enterprise Florida, Inc. (EFI) is a partnership between Florida's businesses and government leaders and is the principal economic development organization for the state of Florida. EFI facilitates job growth for Florida businesses through recruitment and retention, international trade and exporting, promotion of sporting events, and capital funding programs to assist small and minority businesses.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/07/14/governor-scott-announces-advanced-it-concepts-corporate-headquarters-expansion-in-winter-springs/
