Public Statements
Governor Scott Signs Legislation Honoring Florida Veterans
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 12, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced he has signed House Bill 559, which further honors and recognizes Florida's veterans for their service and sacrifice. House Bill 559 changes statutory references from the Korean Conflict to the Korean War and Vietnam Era to Vietnam War, a change requested by veterans to more accurately reflect the nature of the fighting in these two wars. The change in the name is also reflected on the Korean War Veteran license plate. This legislation also redesigns Florida's military and veteran special use plates to include images of the awards and decorations on the plate. This allows the plates to be more recognizable and increases awareness of the special use plates.
Governor Scott said, "I am pleased to sign this legislation that properly honors the service of our heroes who served our nation in Korea and Vietnam. With more than 1.5 million veterans in Florida, we have the third largest population of veterans in the nation, and I am proud to sign H.B. 559 that will redesign the Korean War license plate and establish eligibility guidelines for other veterans' license plates. This legislation is one more way we thank our veterans for their service and sacrifice."
House Speaker Will Weatherford said, "As Americans, we are grateful for the sacrifices made by our veterans to keep us safe and free. This session, we were proud to honor their sacrifices and also create a Combat Medical Badge to recognize the contributions of field medics in our military."
Senator Charlie Dean, Senate bill sponsor, said, "As a veteran myself, I was honored to be able to sponsor this bill which created the Combat Medical Badge special use license plate. These veterans protected our freedoms and I am excited the State of Florida will be providing those who have earned this badge another well deserved recognition."
Senator Thad Altman said, "We thank Governor Scott and the Legislature for supporting our military and their families, and this legislation will serve as a reminder of those who fight to protect the freedom, liberty, and democracy we enjoy in America."

Source:
