Public Statements
Gov. Scott and FWC Announce Saltwater and Freshwater License-Free Fishing Days
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: June 4, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Scott and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission announced Floridians and visitors will be able to fish without a saltwater recreational fishing license on June 7 and 8 and freshwater recreational fishing license on June 14 and 15.
Governor Scott said, "Florida is the Fishing Capital of the World, and fishing is an economic engine for our state, providing jobs from Pensacola to the Keys. These designated license-free fishing days are a great opportunity for Floridians to celebrate summer with their families and loved ones, enjoy the freedom of the great outdoors, cast a line and get hooked on fishing."
"We hope visitors and residents alike will be able to join in the excitement of Florida's saltwater and freshwater fishing this year by participating in one of our license-free fishing days," said FWC Chairman Richard Corbett. "This is an excellent opportunity to share the fun and togetherness of a fishing trip with the entire family or to introduce someone to a lifelong hobby of fishing."
These four license-free fishing days fall near National Fishing and Boating Week, a national celebration of fishing and boating, which started June 1 and runs through June 8. The Recreational Boating and Fishing Foundation's www.TakeMeFishing.org website is a place to learn about events sponsored by businesses and communities during National Fishing and Boating Week, as well as locating fishing sites, identifying recreational species and finding fishing tips. In conjunction with National Fishing and Boating Week and FWC's license-free event is the first-ever KeepAmericaFishing Day on June 7.
The first Saturday in September (Sept. 6, 2014) and the first Saturday after Thanksgiving (Nov. 29, 2014) have also been designated license-free saltwater fishing days, and the first Saturday and Sunday in April (April 4-5, 2015) have been designated a license-free freshwater fishing weekend. All bag limits, seasons and size restrictions apply on these dates.
To make your fishing day successful, check out MyFWC.com/Fishing for fishing tips, locations and rules. Learn more about license-free fishing days by visiting MyFWC.com/License and clicking on "Do I Need One?" and "Free Fishing Days."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/06/04/gov-scott-and-fwc-announce-saltwater-and-freshwater-license-free-fishing-days/
