Public Statements
Gov. Scott Signs Legislation that Creates Sales Tax Holiday for Hurricane Supplies
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: May 12, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott, joined by Representative Ritch Workman, local leaders, emergency management personnel, first responders, health and medical professionals, and industry and business representatives, signed House Bill 5601 that cuts more than $121 million in taxes for Florida families and creates a nine-day sales tax holiday for hurricane supplies beginning May 31.
Governor Scott said, "Hurricane season begins June 1 and Florida families need to get a plan. While we always hope for the best, Florida families need to be prepared for anything. Everyone should have a family disaster kit with supplies and medications, be prepared to evacuate if advised to do so by emergency management officials, know your evacuation route and where you can take your pets if you have to shelter, and have all of your important documents and cash together to take with you.
"I am excited to announce Florida will have a tax holiday on hurricane supplies starting May 31. During the hurricane supply sales tax holiday, Floridians will be able to purchase items to prepare for a hurricane, such as flashlights, batteries, weather radios, and other essential items. Florida's first responders and emergency officials are the best trained in the world, but it's no substitute for Floridians being prepared."
Senate President Don Gaetz said, "If past is prologue then Floridians must always be ready for hurricanes. The tax cut legislation Governor Scott is signing today will reduce the costs of hurricane preparation and protection for every Florida family and business. Governor Scott is keeping his commitment to broad based tax relief. He means it when he says "Help is on the way!'"
"Floridians understand the importance of being prepared, which is why the Legislature included a sales tax holiday for hurricane supplies as part of our $500 million tax relief package," said House Speaker Will Weatherford (R-Wesley Chapel). "I join Governor Scott in encouraging all Floridians to be prepared for the upcoming Hurricane season."
Senator Rob Bradley said, "I appreciate Governor Scott for suggesting the hurricane sales tax holiday as part of his overall proposal to cut $500 million in taxes this year. The sales tax holiday is one of the items from this year's legislation that helped us surpass his savings goal. I am proud to have sponsored this important language and I encourage all Floridians to take advantage of the tax holiday to pick up the supplies they need."
Representative Matt Gaetz said, "Every year we talk about how important it is to get a plan and be prepared for hurricane season. This year, I was pleased to sponsor the portion of HB 5601 that related to the sales tax holiday on hurricane supplies that was recommended by Governor Scott. I support Governor Scott and the signing of this important piece of legislation that allows Floridians to save on taxes while getting what they need to be prepared."
City of Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer said, "It has been 10 years since Orlando residents endured one of our worst hurricane seasons. And while we have been fortunate in recent years to have calmer hurricane seasons, it is important to not get complacent. I encourage our residents to take full advantage of the tax free period to get prepared for the hurricane season."
"Hardening our homes and businesses to weather Florida's storms is a key element of hurricane preparedness," said Orange County Mayor Teresa Jacobs. "This sales tax holiday, specifically for hurricane preparedness, is a great way for Central Florida families to stock up for hurricane season, without putting as big of a dent in their pocketbooks."
"The hurricane tax supply holiday will serve as an annual reminder for all Floridians to get a plan and be prepared for the hurricane season," said Florida Division of Emergency Management Director Bryan W. Koon. "We appreciate Governor Scott's commitment to keeping Florida families safe, and to helping families reduce the costs associated with stocking their disaster supply kits."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/05/12/gov-scott-signs-legislation-that-creates-sales-tax-holiday-for-hurricane-supplies/
