Public Statements
Governor Scott: Florida At A 43-Year Crime Low
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 23, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott was joined by Florida Department of Law Enforcement Commissioner Gerald Bailey, Florida sheriffs and police chiefs to announce Florida's crime rate dropped 4.7 percent compared to 2012, putting Florida at a 43-year crime low. The findings were based on the Uniform Crime Report.
Governor Scott said, "Today we have more good news for families. Even while Florida's population grows, the total number of crimes continues to drop, which is a testament to our brave men and women who serve in our communities each and every day. Florida is now at a 43-year crime low. Our lower crime rate means that not only are our families and communities safer, but Florida is in a better position to create more opportunities for Floridians. This drop in crime shows everyone that Florida really is the best place to raise a family."
"Making Florida a safe place to live, work, and raise a family is my main goal, and thanks to the hard work of our superior law enforcement officers and prosecutors, we have the lowest crime rate in 43 years. I am grateful to all of the public servants who work tirelessly to make our communities safer. Their work has made a tremendous difference, as evidenced by a crime rate that has dropped for the past three consecutive years," stated Attorney General Pam Bondi.
The total number of crimes fell 3.8 percent from last year which translates into 27,380 fewer crimes in 2013. The number of violent crimes was also down 2.4 percent.Murder is down 3.9 percent, forcible sex offenses and robbery each declined 2.8 percent and aggravated assault is down 2.1 percent.
"It is noteworthy, that while our population continues to increase, overall crime continues to decrease," said Florida Department of Law Enforcement Commissioner Gerald Bailey. "My thanks to Florida's dedicated law enforcement professionals for making this a better place to live."

Source:
