Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces Palm Beach Schools to Receive $8.4 Million
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 7, 2014
Location: Unknown

At the Palm Beach Strategic Forum, Governor Rick Scott today announced 83 schools in Palm Beach County will share $8.4 million in school recognition bonuses. The funds are awarded based on the schools' sustained high student academic performance or substantial improvement in student performance in reading, mathematics, science, and writing since last year.
Governor Scott said, "Our students and teachers in Palm Bach County deserve to be rewarded for their hard work and I am pleased to recognize them for their achievements with this $8.4 million investment. One of my top priorities as Governor is to create jobs and opportunities for Florida families. We know that a good job starts with a great education and Florida continues to be a leader in education. I look forward to continued gains."
Schools eligible for recognition awards include those receiving an "A" school grade, improving at least one letter grade from the previous year, or improving more than one letter grade and sustaining the improvement the following school year. Alternative schools that increase their school improvement rating or are rated "improving" also qualify for awards.
Commissioner Pam Stewart said, "I'm pleased these schools are receiving School Recognition bonuses because of their outstanding efforts to prepare Florida students for success in college, career and life."
The school staff and school advisory council at each recognized school jointly decide how to use the financial award. Schools can use their award dollars for faculty or staff bonuses, to purchase educational equipment or materials, or hire temporary staff to help maintain or improve student performance.
The School Recognition Program is funded by the Florida Lottery. Award distributions are based on $100 per full-time equivalent student for each eligible school for school grades earned in 2012-13.
For further information about the School Recognition Program, including individual school award amounts, visit http://www.fldoe.org/evaluation/schrmain.asp.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/04/07/governor-scott-announces-palm-beach-schools-to-receive-8-4-million/
