Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces the Advancement of Major Interchange Project in Daytona Beach
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 3, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today was joined by the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) and local leaders in announcing the advancement of construction dollars for a new interchange in Daytona Beach, as well as widening of the last four lane section of Interstate 95.
Funding of $246.3 million, is being advanced to the next fiscal year beginning in July, covering a new interchange at I-95 and Interstate 4, as well as funding to widen I-95 from State Road (SR) 44 in New Smyrna Beach to just south of Daytona Beach, which is the last section of four lane configuration to undergo widening on I-95 in Florida.
Governor Scott said, "By advancing the funding of $246.3 million for these projects we are helping to improve Florida's infrastructure, which will allow local businesses to grow and create more jobs and opportunities for families in the Daytona area. An important part to growing Florida's economy is making improvements to our transportation system, which will create more connectivity throughout the state. These improvements will also help to create a safer environment for pedestrians along the International Speedway Boulevard."
A separate, $18 million pedestrian safety project is also planned in the nearby US 92/International Speedway Boulevard corridor, featuring wider sidewalks and a pedestrian bridge, with construction proposed in the next fiscal year.
Senator Dorothy Hukill said, "The Daytona Beach area is an international destination. This project improves mobility and safety for the millions of people who visit the region every year. It also brings jobs and enhances the local economy."
Senator John Thrasher said, "I commend Governor Scott for advancing this important project by the Florida Department of Transportation. These improvements along the I-95 and I-4, and beyond, serve the entire east coast of Florida and benefit the state as a whole."
Senator Joe Negron said, "Job creation and infrastructure improvements are vital to the state. Governor Scott recognizes this and I applaud his efforts, which are benefiting Florida's families, businesses and visitors."
Representative Dave Hood said, "Florida is growing again. Projects like these keep up the momentum, benefit Florida families and visitors and add an important element to the continuous growth of the Daytona Beach area."
Representative David Santiago said, "Major projects like this one are job creators; improving business prospects and the quality of life for residents and visitors."
Secretary Ananth Prasad said, "Thanks to Governor Scott, we are able to advance critical transportation projects throughout the state. The pedestrian overpass and sidewalk project increase safety and mobility, and compliment economic development occurring in the International Speedway Boulevard corridor."
The projects benefit businesses--large and small--along the corridor, including the region's major tourist magnets; the Daytona International Speedway; US 92 and beach businesses, hotels and condos just to the east.
Jim Rose, Chairman of the Daytona Regional Chamber said, "The interchange project is more good news for the Daytona Beach area, which has recently seen the opening of new restaurants, new businesses, and major projects under construction, such as the Daytona Rising project at the Daytona International Speedway."
Joie Chitwood III, President of Daytona International Speedway said, "Daytona International Speedway is supportive of both the interchange project as well as the enhancements along the International Speedway Boulevard. These improvements, once completed, will enhance pedestrian safety for our guests along International Speedway Blvd., ease vehicular traffic flow during event times as fans travel to and from Daytona International Speedway and improve the overall quality of life in our community."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/04/03/governor-scott-announces-the-advancement-of-major-interchange-project-in-daytona-beach/
