Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces the Advancement of I-75 Improvements in Pasco County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: April 3, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today announced the advancement of $128 million in widening projects along the I-75 corridor in Pasco County by more than five years. These two projects will support 400 jobs in the Tampa area. These projects will address the growing transportation needs in the Tampa Bay area by widening the current interstate from two lanes in each direction to three, providing interregional connection vital to our economy.
Governor Rick Scott said, "Today we are announcing that not only are we advancing the projects by five years, but we are starting construction in just two weeks. I-75 is an important part of Florida's transportation system as it supports tourism, economic development and trade. Funding these widening projects will create more job opportunities and improve mobility and connectivity. By investing in our infrastructure, Florida will continue to be a place where businesses can grow and all citizens can achieve the American Dream."
Widening I-75, one of the most important freight and tourism corridors in the state, is critical to the state's economic competitiveness and quality of life. These projects will accommodate current and future traffic growth in the area, create jobs, and enhance public safety and emergency evacuation.
Work is set to begin later this month on a 7.8 mile stretch of I-75 just north of State Road 52 to the Pasco/Hernando County Line. In May, construction crews will begin work on an additional 6.7 mile segment of the interstate, from north of County Road 54 to north of State Road 52. This portion of the project also includes major work on State Road 52, widening 1.6 miles to six lanes with frontage roads on the west side of I-75, and adding a westbound State Road 52 "loop" entrance ramp to southbound I-75. Total funding for both projects is $128.6 million.
House Speaker Will Weatherford said, "I applaud Governor Scott's continued commitment to enhancing Florida's infrastructure. The widening projects on I-75 will not only enhance mobility, but it will also create more jobs and opportunities for families in the Tampa area."
Senator Tom Lee said, "The widening of I-75 will generate numerous jobs and allow Florida to meet the demand for future growth. Governor Scott should be commended for recognizing the need in our area."
Senator John Legg said, "The announcement by Governor Scott today is such wonderful news for our community. Interstate 75 needs this additional capacity so it can continue to serve as a vital trade corridor and regional lifeline."
Senator Wilton Simpson said, "Today's announcement is a key step towards keeping Florida's transportation system among the best in the nation. I applaud Governor Scott and FDOT Secretary Prasad for their work to strengthen the region and create jobs."
Representative Dana Young, Majority Whip, said, "The announcement today by Governor Scott will help provide relief to a critical freight and tourism corridor in the state of Florida. Interstate 75 needs the added capacity not only for our community, but also for the many visitors to our state. This is very exciting news."
Representative Richard Corcoran said, "These advancements are a win for Pasco County. Governor Scott's efforts to advance these projects help Florida's economic future."
Representative Ross Spano said, "Governor Scott's announcement today will help relieve congestion and accommodate increased traffic. I-75 is an important tourism corridor and six-laning this facility is critical to Florida's economy."
Representative Daniel Raulerson said, "This is very exciting news for businesses, travelers, and the citizens in the Tampa Bay area. Widening I-75 will improve motorist and freight mobility and accommodate current and future traffic growth."
Representative Jake Raburn said, "Widening I-75 will enhance public safety and emergency evacuation in the state. We applaud Governor Scott for this major announcement today."
Secretary Ananth Prasad said, "I commend Governor Scott for recognizing the value to Florida citizens and businesses to make these critical enhancements to I-75. These projects will further strengthen Florida's infrastructure while boosting the local economy. By addressing capacity needs today, we will be better prepared for future growth in the region."
These I-75 projects in Pasco County will utilize an alternative contracting method, known as design-build, to accelerate completion and minimize impacts to the traveling public.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/04/03/governor-scott-announces-the-advancement-of-i-75-improvements-in-pasco-county/
