Public Statements
Gov. Scott Signs House Bill 7015
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 31, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott was joined by Senate President Don Gaetz, Speaker of the House Will Weatherford, Senator Thad Altman, Senator Garrett Richter, Representative Doc Renuart, Representative Jimmie Smith and Representative Jimmy Patronis to sign House Bill 7015 which creates the "Congressman C.W. Bill Young Tuition Waiver Program," that waives out-of-state tuition fees for honorably discharged veterans.
Governor Scott said, "My top priority is to create jobs for Florida families, and since every good job begins with a great education, I am proud to sign H.B. 7015 that will waive out of state tuition fees for honorably discharged veterans. I am pleased to also sign this legislation that will help our veterans find employment and expand career opportunities for veterans and their spouses. We are working to be the most military-friendly state in the nation, and this is another step to support our brave men and women who serve our nation."
Major General Emmett R. Titshaw, Jr. said, "The men and women of the Florida National Guard are grateful for the support of the Governor and the actions by the legislature to pass the Florida GI Bill, and especially provisions directly benefiting members of the Florida National Guard. The enhanced educational benefits associated with Educational Dollars for Duty and funding for the Florida Armory Renovation Program (FARP) are especially helpful for Florida National Guard members, and the licensing provisions, veteran hiring preference and out-of-state tuition waiver will help all veterans."
Retired Army Colonel Mike Prendergast, executive director of the Florida Department of Veterans' Affairs said, "Waiving out-of-state tuition fees for returning veterans has been the primary focus of Florida's collegiate veterans for several years. From expanded education benefits and veterans' outreach to enhanced hiring preferences and improved access to services, this remarkable legislation signed into law today truly means Florida is the most veteran and military friendly state in the nation."
Florida Senate President Don Gaetz said, "The Florida GI Bill makes Florida the most military-friendly state in the nation and supports the brave men and women who protect us at home and abroad. Through this bill, tens of thousands of active duty servicemen and women, military retirees and their families will see expanded education and employment options. Additionally, critical investments will be made to protect our military base missions and strengthen our National Guard Armories. It is an honor to stand alongside Governor Scott, Speaker Weatherford and service men and women of my district today as the Florida GI Bill is signed into law."
House Speaker Will Weatherford said, "The Florida GI Bill increases our commitment to our servicemen and women by providing them with a meaningful opportunity to receive an education. I thank Governor Scott for signing this bill and standing up for our veterans."
Senator Thad Altman, bill sponsor said, "I am proud to join the Governor today in signing HB 7015. Not only will this new legislation waive out-of-state tuition rates for veterans, it will also fund scholarships for National Guard members. This law will benefit our veterans by providing them with a full range of options and possibilities that will better prepare them for their future.\
Representative Jimmie Smith, bill sponsor said, "Thanks to the support of the Governor and the Legislature, this new law can now lead the way to making sure our men and women in uniform can find jobs when they return home. I was happy to sponsor this legislation and to be on hand to see this bill get signed today. I commend Governor Scott for his support on this issue."
Representative Marti Coley, Speaker Pro Tempore said, "Making Florida the most military-friendly state in the nation is a top priority of the Governor's as well as both the Florida House and Senate. This bill will help the men and women who have served our country receive the education they need and have even more job opportunities than ever before. It is truly a small way to show our gratitude for their service."
Representative Jimmy Patronis said, "I commend Governor Scott for signing this legislation to help our veterans find employment and expand career opportunities when they return home. This legislation reinforces the message that Florida makes our veterans a top priority."
Representative Ronald "Doc" Renuart said, "This bill continues to keep Florida as the most veteran friendly state. And it serves those who serve us."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/03/31/gov-scott-signs-house-bill-7015/
