Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Highlights Early Learning Funding in Jacksonville
Press Release
By: Daniel Davis Marlene O'Toole Janet Adkins Bill Montford John Thrasher Aaron Bean Charles McBurney, Jr. Rick Scott
Date: March 21, 2014
Location: Jacksonville, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott highlighted increased funding for early childhood education at All About Kids in Jacksonville. The Governor's "It's Your Money Tax Cut Budget" proposes $1.1 billion in state funding for early childhood education and care. This is an increase of $100 per child, which is the largest boost for early learning in the past decade.
Governor Scott said, "Children who get a quality early learning opportunity are on the right path for success in school and in life. Investing in early learning is an investment in the future of our children, our families and our state. Florida is a leader in early learning, and is ranked first in the nation with regards to prekindergarten access. The additional $100 per child budget increase for VPK will help ensure that our VPK students are better prepared from kindergarten."
Citing a recent report, the Governor noted that for the fifth consecutive year Florida students who completed the VPK Education Program were better prepared for kindergarten than those who only attended part of the program or did not participate in VPK at all.
Senator John Thrasher said, "I commend Governor Scott for his commitment to providing Florida's early learning programs with the support they need to prepare our children for future education."
Senator Aaron Bean said, "Children across the state rely on early learning systems to be prepared for starting school. Florida is number one in the nation for access to prekindergarten and I would like to thank Governor Scott for keeping this crucial education a priority."
Senator Bill Montford said, "Governor Scott's commitment to investing in early learning programs is a commitment to ensuring all of Florida's children have the opportunities to succeed in their education for years to come. With this investment, Florida will continue to be a leader in early learning and families across the state will continue to see their children succeed."

Source:
