Public Statements
More than $27 Million to Improve Central Florida Water Quality
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

~Clean Water State Revolving Fund program provides low-interest loans for wastewater and stormwater projects~
Governor Rick Scott was joined by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection and Secretary Herschel Vinyard today to announce the 11 wastewater and stormwater projects receiving more than $27 million in loan funding through the Department's Clean Water State Revolving Fund program in Central Florida.
Governor Scott said, "We've made protecting Florida's natural treasures a top priority, and this $27 million investment will make critical upgrades to water infrastructure so we can help improve water quality for families in our Central Florida. Helping improve Florida's water quality is another step in the right direction towards making Florida the best state in the nation to live, work and raise a family."
Orange County Mayor Teresa Jacobs said, "It's wonderful to hear that Orange County has been included in today's Clean Water State Revolving Fund program announcement. We are deeply committed to protecting our cherished natural resources, and to ensuring and maintaining water quality. Upgrading the Eastern Water Reclamation Facility will help us maintain our excellent water quality record, and will help to ensure clean water for future generations."
Senator Alan Hays said, "This money will help the residents of Umatilla reduce the potential for flooding and also treat stormwater, which carries nutrients into our waterbodies. Governor Scott and DEP continue to show a willingness to address these issues throughout Florida."
Senator Charlie Dean said, "Governor Scott continues to show his support for improving Florida's water quality with today's announcement. The rural counties in my district and across the state greatly appreciate the Governor's support of DEP's loan program to upgrade wastewater treatment facilities. Clean water is of upmost importance and this program and the projects which it funds help accomplish our mission."

Source:
