Public Statements
Governor Scott Visits with Child Protective Investigators
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 13, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott visited Child Protective Investigators to thank them for their dedication to Florida's children and spoke about his 2014-2015 "It's Your Money Tax Cut Budget" that commits more than $31 million for child protection services. These funds would be targeted at protecting at-risk children and families by expanding investigation initiatives that are currently being piloted by the Department of Children and Families (DCF). An additional $8 million will go to sheriffs' offices that conduct child protective investigative services.
Governor Scott said, "Our child protective investigators are on the front lines when it comes to protecting Florida's most vulnerable children. That is why my "It's Your Money Tax Cut Budget' proposes $39 million to support child protective investigative services. While we have made significant changes already, we still have much to do to protect the most vulnerable among us. Even one child death is a death too many."
"I applaud Governor Scott for his steadfast commitment to improving child safety and for his proposal of more resources for our child protective investigators," said Hillsborough County Sheriff David Gee. "His recommendation for additional investments in these areas will further bolster the state's systems that protect some of our most vulnerable children."
"The child protective investigators of the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office work shoulder-to-shoulder with the department and our Community-Based Care partners to protect Florida's vulnerable children,"said DCF Interim Secretary Esther Jacobo. "The Governor's proposed budget recognizes the importance of such partnerships and the effectiveness of their contributions to community solutions."
"This proposed budget will add valuable resources, both financially and in personnel, that will strengthen our efforts to protect Florida's children,"said DCF Suncoast Regional Managing Director Mike Carroll. "The Governor's proposed budget will result in an additional $5 million in funding for sheriff's office child protective investigations in the Tampa Bay area and will have a profound impact on children, families and our community as a whole."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/03/13/governor-scott-visits-with-child-protective-investigators/
