Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Highlights JAXPORT Intermodal Container Transfer Facility Project
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 10, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott was joined by state and local officials today to highlight the Intermodal Container Transfer Facility (ICTF) project at JAXPORT's Dames Point Marine Terminal, which will allow ships and freight trains to transfer cargo containers efficiently, giving JAXPORT faster access to Southeast markets. According to JAXPORT, the project is expected to create over 340 construction jobs, and 800 direct and indirect jobs over the next four decades.
Governor Scott said, "We're committed to making Florida the trade gateway to the world. That's why we committed funding for this project to create more than 1,000 jobs for Florida families. This project will allow the port to be more competitive and grow more volume, which will create more opportunities for families in the Jacksonville community. We continue to invest in our seaports because they are tremendous economic generators and provide jobs for Florida families."
The ICTF project will provide on-dock rail service to JAXPORT's North Jacksonville marine terminals. It will facilitate the direct transfer of containers between vessels and trains, speeding up the shipment process and reducing the number of trucks on the road. It will also decrease the cost for draying trailers and containers between the Dames Point and Blount Island Marine Terminals and shippers' and receivers' facilities.
U.S. Representative Ander Crenshaw said, "There is no time to waste in strengthening the port to take full advantage of trade growth, create more jobs, and stay competitive in the regional, national, and international marketplace. Governor Scott understands that projects like the Intermodal Container Transfer Facility and the deepening of the St. Johns are two examples of initiatives that will open the door wider to tremendous economic opportunity. He and everyone on the Port team deserve our thanks. If we do not act quickly, JAXPORT will fall behind competitors on the East Coast, and the economic engine that has driven this community for the past decade will be put in danger."
Senator John Thrasher said, "The addition of the Intermodal Container Transfer Facility is a necessary improvement to prepare JAXPORT for additional capacity. Governor Scott's leadership at JAXPORT and our entire port system is critical in preparing Florida for continued economic growth."
Senator Aaron Bean said, "JAXPORT is a vital economic driver for not only the City of Jacksonville but the state as a whole. I applaud Governor Scott for his investment in this important project which will further strengthen the competiveness of the port."
Representative Daniel Davis said, "The new facility will enhance Florida's ability to be an international hub for trade and commerce. The Governor's investment today is yet another example of his commitment to make critical enhancements to Florida's seaports."
Representative Lake Ray said, "This project is the next step in making JAXPORT a key gateway for international trade and logistics. We appreciate the Governor's support in accomplishing our vision."
Representative Charles McBurney said, "Today's groundbreaking is an exciting time at JAXPORT as the new facility will greatly benefit the port by speeding up the shipment process. Thanks to Governor Scott, Florida is moving ahead with another significant port enhancement project."
Representative Janet Adkins said, "This new facility will make JAXPORT more competitive and provide tremendous economic benefits to the region. I commend Governor Scott's commitment to the port in Jacksonville and the recognition of this port's vital role to Florida's economy."
Jacksonville Mayor Alvin Brown said, "We appreciate the Governor's strong leadership in support of JAXPORT to make sure our city and state stay competitive in the global economy. We must build the very best port infrastructure to create more jobs and make the most of the growing business opportunities offered by international trade."
The $30 million project is made up of both state and federal funds. Governor Scott and FDOT have committed $20 million to the development of the ICTF while JAXPORT was awarded a $10 million TIGER Grant in 2011 from USDOT.
JAXPORT Chairman Joe York said, "Governor Scott has demonstrated many times over his support for the growth and development of our ports and infrastructure. The construction of an ICTF is an absolute requirement for our port and region to grow competitively and to ensure we are offering the best services to our customers, and we are pleased to move forward on this project."
FDOT Secretary Ananth Prasad said, "Since taking office, Governor Scott has been a true champion for Florida's seaports. The new facility marks another step forward in growing our infrastructure and economy for our state."
Florida Ports Council President and CEO Doug Wheeler said, "Investing in facilities such as the ICTF at JAXPORT not only improves Florida's competitiveness in today's global market, but also provides continuing benefits to local and regional economies through job creation and business expansion. Florida continues to show its dedication to establishing the critical transportation infrastructure needed to best position Florida as the trade gateway to the Americas."
The new facility, expected to be complete in late 2015, will complement existing on-dock rail facilities at the Blount Island Marine terminal and will further enhance the competitiveness of the TraPac Container Terminal at Dames Point.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/03/10/governor-rick-scott-highlights-jaxport-intermodal-container-transfer-facility-project/
