Public Statements
Gov. Scott Announces CTD Holdings Expands Corporate Headquarters
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 26, 2016
Location: West Palm Beach, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that CTD Holdings, Inc., a biotechnology company that develops pharmaceutical products for the treatment of disease, will establish their corporate headquarters in Jupiter. The company will add 51 jobs and invest $2.75 million in the region. CTD Holdings, Inc. was established in Florida in 1990 with operations beginning in 1992.
Governor Rick Scott said, "Today I was proud to announce CTD Holdings' creation of 51 new jobs in Jupiter. While CTD had the opportunity to expand in other states, they ultimately chose Florida as the best place to grow their business. I look forward to their continued growth and am proud of their commitment to Florida families."
"CTD Holdings is pleased to be locating to Jupiter in order to build out our company and our drug development programs," said N.Scott Fine, CTD Chairman & CEO. "We are grateful to Governor Scott and his team, as well to our local colleagues and officials in Palm Beach County and the City of Jupiter for all their support as we make this important move."
Florida is home to the nation's No. 2 medical device manufacturing industry, the third-largest pharmaceuticals manufacturing industry, and the No. 7 biotech R&D industry. More than 27,000 professionals work in Florida's biotechnology, pharmaceutical manufacturing, and medical device manufacturing industries.
Cissy Proctor, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, said, "CTD Holdings' relocation to Jupiter is great news for our state and highlights Florida's strong business-friendly environment. Companies like CTD recognize the opportunities our state provides to grow their business. I look forward to the company's bright future in Florida."
The project was made possible through strong partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, CareerSource Florida, Town of Jupiter and the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County.
"We are delighted to welcome CTD Holdings, Inc. to the Jupiter Community, and excited about the discoveries and breakthroughs their strong research and development efforts will produce," said Jupiter Mayor Todd Wodraska. "In Jupiter, we treasure our unique quality of life, so it's rewarding to see that a company like CTD, who offers treatments to improve the quality of life for their patients, will soon call Jupiter home."
Kelly Smallridge, President and CEO of the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County said, "CTD Holdings is an example of the many sophisticated biotechnology companies that are locating to and expanding in Palm Beach County. To further strengthen and grow Palm Beach County's life science ecosystem and proactively attract more businesses like CTD Holdings, the BDB created a Life Science Advisory Council. The Council is a collaborative effort between the BDB, educators, research institutes, hospitals, government, and medical device, pharmaceutical / nutraceutical, venture capital, and technology transfer companies."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/10/26/gov-scott-announces-ctd-holdings-expands-corporate-headquarters/
