Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Highlights $80 Million for Cancer Research as Part of the "It's Your Money Tax Cut Budget"
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 10, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today joined leaders from University of Florida Health and Orlando Health to highlight an $80 million commitment for cancer research in the "It's Your Money Tax Cut Budget." The budget includes $60 million for existing Florida Cancer Centers to assist in achieving National Cancer Institute (NCI) designation, and another $20 million commitment for peer-reviewed research grants.
Governor Rick Scott said, "I am proud to join UF Health Cancer Center at Orlando Health to highlight our $80 million commitment for cancer treatment centers across Florida. We must put our state in a position to be on the cutting edge of cancer research, and this investment goes a long way towards that goal. We remain committed to fighting this terrible disease, and we continue to work towards a cure."
University of Florida President Bernie Machen said, "Governor Scott's effort to increase state support for cancer research is timely and needed in light of the rising human toll from cancer in Florida. With this additional funding, UF Health and Orlando Health can accelerate our collaborative work to make the best possible cancer care and treatment available to patients."
Dr. Mark Roh, President, UF Health Cancer Center at Orlando Health, said, "As oncologists we are always looking for newer, better and more advanced ways to treat cancer and provide options and hope for our patients. Thanks to the support from Governor Scott to pledge valuable funds for cancer research, we will continue to make strides and move forward in finding new drugs and treatment options which will save lives and take cancer care in Florida to the next level."
State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong said, "The "It's Your Money Tax Cut Budget' demonstrates Governor Scott's commitment to helping Floridians beat cancer with state-of-the-art care and innovative research. This budget will create a statewide network of National Cancer Institute designated centers that will make Florida the preferred destination for cancer care and research investment."

Source:
