Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott Announces $194 million in State Funding to Expand Capacity at Tampa International Airport
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: March 5, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today announced state funding of $194 million that will help create the Tampa Gateway Center at Tampa International Airport (TIA). The Gateway Center will expand the capacity of TIA by creating a 2.3 million square foot rental car center with a transit stop and constructing a 1.3 mile Automated People Mover (APM) which will connect the economy parking garage and rental car center to the terminal.
Governor Scott said, "This critical investment of $194 million in TIA not only helps make it one of the world's premier airports, but it also increases the passenger capacity and creates jobs for Florida's families. We are investing a record $8.8 billion in transportation improvements, which will enable Florida's world-class transportation system to be a global hub for trade and commerce. Florida's airports continue to expand because we are creating an environment where business can grow and create jobs and opportunities for future generations."
Construction of the APM and Gateway Center will generate approximately 7,141 jobs. Once operational, 1,112 permanent jobs are projected (277 immediate and 835 shortly after completion of Phase 1).
The Governor's investments and commitments for Tampa International Airport include,
$18.7 million for construction is in the FY 2014-2015 budget
$175.3 million for future construction will be included in the department's requested Work Program
The current main terminal transfer level, curbsides and rental car facilities will reach capacity by 2017. Completion of the airport projects will extend the usable life of the main terminal complex by about 30 years.
House Speaker Will Weatherford (R-Wesley Chapel) said, "As Florida's economy continues to improve, projects like the expansion of Tampa International Airport are critical to handle future growth. This project will mean more jobs, more tourists and more investment for the Tampa-area economy."
Senator Tom Lee said, "Tampa International is one of Florida's top airports. Thanks to Governor Scott's investment the airport will be able to address the needs of today and ensure a successful future welcoming Florida's visitors."
Senator Bill Galvano said, "The Gateway Center and Automated People Mover projects will help relieve congestion, improve connectivity and create additional parking at the airport. I commend Governor Scott for his efforts to ensure Tampa International will be able to accommodate future tourism growth."
Senator Jeff Brandes said, "Governor Scott's investment to expand Tampa International Airport will help meet the growing demand of families and business owners who come to experience our great state. These improvements will create jobs and solidify Tampa's position as a world class airport."
Senator John Legg said, "The Governor's announcement today will allow Tampa International to increase the number of passengers it serves and prepare for business growth at the airport. This investment will further boost the aviation industry in the Sunshine State."
Representative Dana Young said, "The announcement by Governor Scott today is such wonderful news for our community. The improvements at TIA will create more jobs, bring more tourists, and allow more people to enjoy the Tampa Bay area."
Representative Ed Hooper said, "With millions of travelers coming through TIA each year, this expansion project was definitely needed to keep up with the growing demand for air travel to and from the Tampa Bay region. We applaud Governor Scott for this major announcement today."
Representative Jamie Grant said, "I'm proud of our city's airport and am excited to see TIA's continued growth. Governor Scott's announcement will help the best airport in the world more efficiently service the increased traffic."
Representative Ross Spano said, "The creation of the Tampa Gateway will make a lasting impression with TIA travelers while providing a quick and stress-free travel experience. The investment by Governor Scott is a critical piece for TIA and will serve many generations to come."
Representative Jake Raburn said, "Governor Scott's announcement regarding the TIA Gateway Center will help remove cars and buses from the curbsides and expand the main terminal. This is very exciting news for businesses, travelers, and the citizens in the Tampa Bay area."
Secretary Prasad said, "Aviation plays an important role in the vitality of Florida's economy and the strength of our tourism industry. Governor Scott's investment is a game changer for Tampa International Airport and will ensure that the airport can continue to meet the needs travelers and businesses at the airport."
Tampa International Airport Chief Executive Officer Joe Lopano said, "We truly appreciate this support from Governor Scott and the Florida Department of Transportation. This is teamwork at its best. Tampa International, Gov. Scott and FDOT are creating thousands of jobs and investing in the future of tourism for the West Coast of Florida and the entire state."
Florida Airports Council Executive Director Bill Johnson said, "Once again, Governor Scott and Secretary Prasad demonstrate they understand how to stimulate Florida's economy through its transportation infrastructure. The Governor is providing the vision and leadership needed to not only keep Florida's airports competitive in this global economy but to also provide thousands of short and long-term jobs for the state."
Florida Ports Council President and CEO Doug Wheeler said, "Florida's seaports are encouraged by the continued investment by the Florida Department of Transportation in freight and passenger transportation projects, that will help Florida move people and goods more efficiently. In order for Florida to become a true international trade hub, we must continue to provide state of the art facilities to attract and capture future opportunities."
In addition to the state funding, Tampa International Airport will invest $749 million in the Tampa Gateway Center to build the Consolidated Rental Car Facility and Automated People Mover as well as taxiway reconstruction, terminal expansion and parking/concession redevelopment.
Construction is expected to begin this year and be completed by 2017.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/03/05/governor-rick-scott-announces-194-million-in-state-funding-to-expand-capacity-at-tampa-international-airport/
