Public Statements
Letter to Barack Obama, President of the United States - We Must Stand In Solidarity with the People of Venezuela
Letter
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 28, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, in a letter to President Obama, Governor Rick Scott requested the White House take swift action to stand up with the people of Venezuela who are struggling for democracy. Governor Scott, Lt. Governor Carlos Lopez-Cantera, and U.S. Senator Rubio will meet with families in Doral at 12:15 pm to discuss the unrest in Venezuela.
FULL LETTER BELOW
Dear President Obama,
Thank you for listening to my concerns during the NGA meeting at the White House on Monday.
Among the important topics raised during this meeting, I urged you to consider sanctions against the current oppressive Venezuelan regime. Despite our discussion, it's been four days since we met, and the people of Venezuela are still experiencing unrest and repression.
Senator Marco Rubio captured the sentiments of Florida families perfectly when he said on the floor of the U.S. Senate, "If America and its policy makers are not going to be firmly on the side of freedom and liberty, who in the world is?"
With ongoing reports of violence and repression of free speech, this issue demands your immediate attention. That's why I am again respectfully requesting that we stand in solidarity with the people of Venezuela who are struggling for democracy with swift U.S. action. We must target regime officials with sanctions, such as freezing the bank accounts of Maduro and his gang and revoking the U.S. visas of anyone involved in attacking peaceful demonstrators. We must stand squarely for liberty and democracy and against the forces of oppression and tyranny. It is also my hope that you will use all diplomatic measures to denounce the unjust arrest and treatment of the peaceful pro-democracy leader Leopoldo Lopez.
Additionally, with your planned visit to Florida in March, I would like to encourage you to visit the community of Doral to hear the stories of freedom loving families who are concerned for the safety of their loved ones in Venezuela.
I look forward to your immediate action on this issue which is so important to those yearning to be free in Venezuela, Cuba and every place in the world that does not enjoy the blessings of liberty that we do in the United States of America.
Sincerely,
Rick Scott
Governor

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/02/28/gov-scott-to-president-obama-we-must-stand-in-solidarity-with-the-people-of-venezuela/
