Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Creative Foam Medical Systems Manufacturing Facility in Ocala
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Feb. 19, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that Creative Foam Medical Systems, a wholly owned subsidiary of Creative Foam Corporation, will open a manufacturing facility in Ocala. The new project will create 20 jobs and make a capital investment of $2 million.
Governor Scott said, "It is great news that more jobs are being created in Ocala. With more than 462,000 private-sector jobs being created since December 2010, and our unemployment rate down to 6.2 percent, we are seeing more and more private companies relocating and growing in Florida. I am proud to congratulate Creative Foam Medical Systems on their growth, but there is still more work to be done. We must continue to help ensure that Florida continues to build our economic momentum and all Floridians can find a great job."
Based in Michigan, Creative Foam Medical Systems is a contract manufacturer of Diagnostic Imaging equipment that includes: RF flex coils, patient positioners, system table pads and acoustical treatments. This advanced manufacturing site will also include rapid prototyping equipment, like their new Fortus 400mc 3D printer, which gives them the ability to turn CAD files into real functional parts.
"We are very excited to become part of the Ocala community, who has supported us from the concept stage of this development and continues to with their assistance in helping us locate the right personnel," said Kent Lutian, VP-General Manager, Creative Foam Medical Systems. "We are eager to start this next chapter of growth and look forward to prospering for many years with in the Ocala community. Creative Foam Corporation is deeply committed to the Ocala area and is eager to display this by being a responsible and supportive corporate citizen."
Florida's manufacturing sector has nearly 18,000 companies that employ more than 311,000 Floridians statewide. In addition, the state's multicultural and multilingual workforce provides Florida manufacturers with an excellent advantage in conducting business overseas, accounting for 93 percent of Florida's exports last year.
President & CEO of Enterprise Florida Gray Swoope said, "Creative Foam Medical Systems' establishment in Florida will add value to our extensive manufacturing industry. Florida is ranked among the top 10 states for manufacturing establishments, thanks to our pro-business climate. In April of this year the removal of sales tax on manufacturing equipment goes into effect and that will only improve our efforts to attract new and expanded operations."
This project was made possible with the help of close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, the Ocala Chamber and Economic Partnership and Career Source Citrus, Levy and Marion.
"Creative Foam Medical Systems joins Marion County's growing portfolio of specialized economic enterprises with innovative products that directly support our goal of a diverse economy," said Marion County Commission Chairman Carl Zalak III. "We are eager to welcome the 20 new, specialized positions this company is bringing to our community and the tremendous growth potential of this industry within our region."
"The City is excited to have been able to collaborate with the Ocala Chamber and Economic Partnership and the County to bring this new business to Ocala. We look forward to continuing the joint efforts that will further diversify our business community," said Ocala City Council President John McLeod.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/02/19/governor-scott-announces-creative-foam-medical-systems-manufacturing-facility-in-ocala/
