Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Cancer Treatment Centers of America® Selects Boca Raton as Site for New Corporate Headquarters
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 27, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today announced that Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), a national network of five hospitals that treat patients fighting complex and advanced-stage cancer with innovative, world-class options and "care that never quits"©, has selected Boca Raton, Florida as the site for its corporate headquarters. The company expects to employ 225 full-time staff, including executives who relocated from its current headquarters in suburban Chicago, and new hires. Several office sites are currently under evaluation with a decision to be announced.
The relocation decision followed a thorough examination of the alternatives available to the company in order to best position it for continued growth and accelerated investment in the talent, technology, and related resources needed to provide the services cancer patients seek to conquer their disease. Florida's favorable business climate, coupled with the quality of life offered to residents of Boca Raton, and its proximity to three international airports, factored heavily in the company's decision to relocate.
Governor Scott said, "We're proud that Cancer Treatment Centers of America took a one-way ticket to the Sunshine State, and will add more than 200 new jobs to the region. This great news builds on Office Depot's recent announcement that following their merger with OfficeMax, they too will setup their global head quarters in Boca Raton. To continue this success, we're working to cut $500 million in taxes and fees this upcoming session to create an opportunity economy that provides generations of families with great careers, so they can pursue the American Dream."
"Selecting Boca Raton as our new corporate headquarters represents a major step in positioning Cancer Treatment Centers of America to serve even more patients in the future, while simultaneously providing our dedicated and valued employees with exciting opportunities for further personal and professional development," stated CTCA President and CEO Gerard van Grinsven. "We deeply appreciate the support we received from the State of Florida, the City of Boca Raton, Palm Beach County and its Business Development Board, under the leadership of President and CEO Kelly Smallridge, in coming to this decision. We also want to acknowledge the special efforts of Florida Governor Rick Scott and Enterprise Florida for their assistance with our evaluation of the benefits associated with our relocation."
"Across our state, life science companies continue to locate and expand, making the industry one of the most rapidly-growing in the nation," said Enterprise Florida President & CEO Gray Swoope. "Add to that the relocation of great companies like Cancer Treatment Centers of America and you can see why Florida is climbing the ranks as a life science leader. Our business climate, workforce and global access allow companies to be extremely innovative and successful. We're proud to add CTCA and their expertise to our growing foundation of life science leaders."
Workforce Florida President/CEO Chris Hart IV said, "Florida welcomes Cancer Treatment Centers of America's corporate headquarters to the rapidly expanding life sciences industry here in our beautiful state. We are proud to support the relocation of an industry leader committed to winning the fight against cancer and promoting health and well-being. With an estimated 225 high-skill, high-wage jobs anticipated over the next 18 months, Cancer Treatment Centers of America also will be a valued contributor to Florida's continued economic growth."
"Cancer Treatment Centers of America's decision to relocate to Florida is yet another example of businesses across the country recognizing the advantages of Florida's pro-business climate, advanced technology environment, and exceptional talent pipelines," said Jesse Panuccio, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity. "Our policies are focused on making Florida the number one state in the nation for economic growth, and we look forward to welcoming more businesses like Cancer Treatment Centers of America in relocating to the Sunshine State."
City of Boca Raton Mayor Susan Whelchel is pleased that the Cancer Treatment Centers of America selected Boca Raton for its new headquarters and believes that the company will be another important asset in the City. "We are excited to have Cancer Treatment Centers of America become part of our community", she said.
"We look forward to welcoming Cancer Treatment Centers of America to Palm Beach County, as the company's relocation will have a significant economic impact on the entire county and elevate our awareness as an emerging destination for leading healthcare companies," said Kelly Smallridge, President and CEO of the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/01/27/gov-scott-cancer-treatment-centers-of-america-selects-boca-raton-as-site-for-new-corporate-headquarters/
