Public Statements
FOX "Hannity" - Transcript: Americans Fleeing Blue States for Red States?
Interview
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 23, 2014
Location: Unknown

SEAN HANNITY, HOST: And welcome back to "Hannity." So after New York Governor Andrew Cuomo revealed his true colors last Friday when he said conservatives like me have no place in the united socialist state of New York, well, I told the governor, I have no problem. When time is right, next couple years, I'll be moving out. And one of the states that I and lots of Americans are considering fleeing to, where unemployment rate happens to be lower than the national jobless rate, no state income tax, water, warm weather, is beautiful Florida.
Joining me now, the governor of the Sunshine State, Republican Rick Scott. Governor, good to see you. How are you?
GOV. RICK SCOTT, R-FLA.: Sean, come on down. Look at our weather. You probably have to have a jacket today. We're in short sleeves -- the fishing capital of the world, no income tax...
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: I caught 20 fish and a shark the last time I was down there.
SCOTT: So you know, was it fun? Did you have a good time?
HANNITY: Yes, I had a great time.
You know, on a serious note, if there can be one here, to me, this has provided a much bigger opportunity to compare and contrast. There's governors like yourself -- I've spoken to you, I've spoken -- I spoke to the lieutenant governor of North Carolina today, the governor, lieutenant governor of Texas Here you get to see 10 percent state income tax for me in New York, no state income tax in Florida. Let me put up on the screen -- your unemployment rate when you took office, correct me if I'm wrong, was 11.1 percent. Now it's down to 6.4 percent, which is well below the national average. You know, New Jersey, for example, they lost $70 billion in household wealth.
What is happening in states that have historically been run by liberals and states where there are no income tax? Why -- why is there such a disparity?
SCOTT: Well, look, here, you know, you get to keep your money. You get a big pay raise by coming down here. The weather's better. We love people. We have all these national treasures. We've got great lakes, rivers, beaches.
People are moving their businesses here because they can solve their customer needs better, lower income taxes, less regulation, faster permitting time. All these things mean we're going to have more business.
Approximately $100 billion of annual income has moved to our state in the last 20 years, $100 billion. That's bigger than our state budget.
And you know what? Sean, New York state budget is almost double ours for the same number of people.
HANNITY: Yes.
SCOTT: Why would -- why would New Yorkers pay for -- why -- why would they pay that? Come down here, get a pay raise and enjoy our great weather.
HANNITY: All right, so I looked at the latest Census that we had. Do you know that 3.5 million New Yorkers left New York? And I put up the figure about New Jersey, 70 billion left in a four-year period in terms of wealth.
Why are most of those people -- how many people came to Florida in that time, do you know?
SCOTT: Well, it looks like somewhere between 200,000 and 300,000 people are moving here a year right now.
HANNITY: Wow.
SCOTT: And they're moving -- and they're moving their wealth here. It helps our charities. It helps our social services. And they're moving here for a lot of reasons, but lower taxes, less regulation. You can get a job.
I have 285,000 job openings in the state right now, 285,000, unemployment down to 6.4 percent, below the national average. So we have businesses coming here. We're the gateway to Latin America. And you know what? We love people. This is a place where we're at a 42-and-a-half-year low in our crime rate. We just love people coming down here.
(CROSSTALK)
HANNITY: And you don't care that I'm pro-life and that I believe in the Second Amendment and that I have Barack Obama's view on marriage from two years ago? That' OK with you?
SCOTT: You know what we believe in? We believe in freedom. We believe in, you know, the right to live your dream.
Sean, I have a 2-year- old -- he wants to be a cowboy right now, 2-year-old grandson. He wants to be a cowboy. But you know what? In our state, you can be a cowboy. You can be an astronaut. You can build a technology company. You can do so many things down here. And that's is what I want. I want the dream in our state. And that's what we all want in our state.
HANNITY: Zero state income tax.
Governor, congratulations. And if you have 280,000 jobs available, that unemployment rate's going lower. I look forward to hearing that story. Thanks for being with us.
SCOTT: All right, nice seeing you. Come on down, one-way ticket to Florida.
HANNITY: All right. Appreciate it.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/on-air/hannity/2014/01/24/americans-fleeing-blue-states-red-states
