Public Statements
Governor Scott Directs FDOT to Expedite Opening of A1A in Flagler Beach
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 20, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott directed the Florida Department of Transportation to expedite the restoration of two-way traffic on A1A in Flagler Beach. FDOT will immediately proceed with an emergency procurement that will result in the reopening of A1A no later than 45 days after contract execution. Earlier this month, roughly 1.3 miles of A1A was compromised and damaged by Hurricane Matthew, causing the roadway to be closed and traffic to be diverted.
Governor Scott said, "Getting our communities back to work as quickly and safely as possible is our number one priority and we must make A1A operational as soon as we can. That's why I've directed FDOT to use all available resources to get A1A reopened as soon as possible. This expedited timeline will get residents and tourists back onto A1A so that families and businesses in the area can get back on their feet and return to their normal routines."
The contract for restoration is expected to be executed over the weekend, and construction will begin early next week. Once the contract is in place, the contractor will have no longer than 45 days to restore north-south traffic flow to the impacted area of A1A.
Secretary Jim Boxold said, "Restoring north-south traffic on A1A is the number one priority in the state for FDOT, and we have been working diligently since the storm passed to assess what needed to be done. We are now ready to procure the necessary services to complete this task without delay, and we will bring every resource the state has at its disposal to complete this project quickly. At the same time as we work to implement this intermediate fix to get A1A up and running, we will continue to work with our community members and elected officials to develop a more permanent solution for the section of road that was impacted by the storm."
The State of Florida and FDOT are responsible for reconstructing and reopening A1A, and all aspects and phases of the project will be managed and overseen by the agency. This will include installing temporary lanes on A1A in both northbound and southbound directions. The new lanes will shift A1A farther to the west, with southbound traffic using newly constructed temporary pavement. The existing lane that did not sustain extensive damage will be made traffic-ready and will be utilized by northbound traffic.
FDOT will also shorten the detour on the north and south sides of the impacted area, giving access to more businesses and homes, and lowering the number of vehicles using South Central Avenue as a thoroughfare. FDOT efforts to shorten the detours, as well as additional work on impacted areas to the north and south of the washed out section of A1A, are already underway.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/10/20/governor-scott-directs-fdot-to-expedite-opening-of-a1a-in-flagler-beach/
