Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces North American Surveillence Systems Expansion in Brevard County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Jan. 22, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, during a meeting of the Florida Cabinet, Governor Rick Scott announced that North American Surveillance Systems Inc. (NASS) has chosen Titusville's Space Coast Regional Airport to expand and consolidate its fixed and rotary-wing aircraft modification business. The company currently has operations offices in DeLand and will create 20 jobs over the next three years in manufacturing and engineering with the expansion. The project will create a capital investment of $1.3 million in land acquisition and $380,000 in construction and equipment.
Governor Scott said, "North American Surveillance Systems' is a veteran owned business that's growing jobs and opportunities for Florida families. We have been working hard to create jobs, and since I took office more than 446,300 private-sector jobs have been created. Additionally, Florida's unemployment rate is down to 6.4 percent -- the lowest it's been in more than five years. We will continue to work hard to create an opportunity economy in Florida that supports jobs for generations to come."
NASS considered locations in North Carolina, Kentucky and Georgia before choosing Brevard County. The company will lease existing office space in a small hangar at the airport, and build an additional 20,150-square-foot hangar to provide space to support its strategic growth and projected throughput needed for two recently awarded contracts.
NASS President Richard McCourt said, "We are absolutely delighted to become part of the dynamic Titusville business community. The cooperation we have received from the Economic Development Commission of Florida's Space Coast and North Brevard Economic Development Zone, and the outstanding support and assistance from the Cocoa-Titusville Regional Airport Authority and the City of Titusville helped convince us that Titusville was the right location for relocating and consolidating our business operations. The excellent Titusville business community support and incentives, coupled with the availability of a skilled workforce, made this an easy strategic business decision for NASS. We look forward to a lasting and prosperous relationship with the Titusville community."
The company offers design, systems engineering, integration, test, certification and logistics support. Its FAA-licensed mechanics are experienced on more than 80 different fixed and rotary wing aircraft types.
Florida is already home to more than 2,000 aerospace and aviation companies employing over 87,000 workers across the state. As the No. 2 state in aviation, aerospace, and space establishments, Florida is the world's premier gateway to space. Florida is a major hub for maintenance repair and overhaul (MRO) and flight training, and has been the undisputed air-traffic hub of the Western Hemisphere for both passengers and cargo. The Sunshine State is home to leading manufacturers of all types of aircraft and aircraft components, and was recently ranked No. 1 in PricewaterhouseCoopers' national aviation manufacturing attractiveness index.
"This expansion will add to Florida's extensive aviation and aerospace industry and create more opportunities for the state's manufacturing sector," said Secretary of Commerce and President & CEO of Enterprise Florida, Gray Swoope. "With Florida's great workforce, the exemption of sales tax on manufacturing equipment and knowledge of the industry, NASS will thrive in our state."
This project was made possible through close partnerships of Enterprise Florida, Inc., The Economic Development Commission of Florida's Space Coast, the North Brevard Economic Development Zone (NBEDZ), the City of Titusville, the Titusville-Cocoa Airport Authority and the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity.
The EDC of Florida's Space Coast President and CEO, Lynda Weatherman said, "With its national and international roster of customers and reputation for highly skilled work conducted efficiently and expertly, NASS mirrors the strengths of our aviation and aerospace segment on the Space Coast. The company's decision to relocate and expand here after a competitive process reinforces how the EDC and our key partners continue to work to grow our economy and make sure the business world understands the many strengths of our county."
"We are pleased that NASS has selected Titusville and North Brevard as the location for its business operations," said North Brevard Economic Development Zone (NBEDZ) Chairman George Mikitarian. "NASS is representative of the type of high-technology firm targeted through recruitment efforts of the NBEDZ, the EDC, and our many economic development partners in both the county and the City of Titusville as we work together to advance our local economy."
"The Titusville-Cocoa Airport Authority is grateful to have NASS expand with us here at Space Coast Regional Airport (TIX) and to everyone who played a role in bringing in this key growth," said Authority Chief Executive Officer Michael Powell. "The Authority continues working very hard to create a system of airports everyone can be proud of, and none of our many accomplishments would have been possible without the unmatched and unwavering support from our partners, including the State of Florida, Brevard County, the City of Titusville, our communities and community leaders, the Economic Development Commission of Florida's Space Coast, the Space Coast Economic Development Commission, the North Brevard Economic Development Zone, and the Greater Titusville Renaissance. The Authority is grateful to have NASS expand with us here at TIX and we look forward to their success and our bright future."
Titusville Mayor Jim Tulley said, "The City of Titusville is pleased that North American Surveillance Systems is relocating its operations, including personnel and surveillance aircraft to Space Coast Regional Airport, a Florida Spaceport Territory. This significant aerospace project is enhanced by incentives from the city, as well a review and approval of a new 20,150-square-foot hanger by the city's Development Services Department within 7 days of application. NASS has also executed a long-term lease of an adjoining 6,350-square-foot office and hanger. The client anticipates commencing shortly the construction a new two-story 11,000-square-foot office building to enhance their Titusville operations."
"We are excited that North American Surveillance Systems chose Titusville for its expansion. Florida's Space Coast is a perfect location for this aviation manufacturing company to grow and thrive," said Jesse Panuccio, Executive Director of the Department of Economic Opportunity. "The new high-skill, high-wage jobs that will be created are a welcome addition to the growing community. The recent PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP recognition of our thriving aviation manufacturing sector is further proof that the economic policies of the Scott administration are working to better our state for future generations."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2014/01/22/governor-scott-announces-north-american-surveillence-systems-expansion-in-brevard-county/
