Public Statements
Note Regarding Federal Disaster Assistance Following Hurricane Matthew
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 18, 2016
Location: West Palm Beach, FL

Yesterday, Governor Scott called on President Obama to immediately approve Florida's entire request for a major disaster declaration while he was in St. Augustine to encourage tourists to come back to the area that was severely impacted by Hurricane Matthew. A major disaster declaration from the federal government opens up federal resources to come to Florida to help impacted communities. Last week, the federal government only approved portions of the Governor's request, and had not approved funding for Individual Assistance which helps families and businesses pay for things like temporary housing, home repairs and living expenses while they are trying to rebuild. The federal government had also not approved funding for permanent work to roads, parks and government buildings in local communities.
Following Governor Scott's call yesterday for the President to approve this funding for Florida's communities, FEMA announced that Individual Assistance is now available for individuals in Flagler, Putnam, St. Johns and Volusia counties. FEMA is continuing to survey additional counties along Florida's east coast to determine if Individual Assistance and Public Assistance will be made available to families and businesses in those counties.
Please see the following statement from Governor Scott:
"Since Hurricane Matthew impacted our state, I have traveled Florida's east coast and met with affected families and businesses who are working hard to rebuild. I have seen homes destroyed from severe storm surge and flooding and many businesses are just now able to reopen because they regained power and cleaned up damange. While it took more than a week for this federal funding to be designated in Flagler, Putnam, St. Johns and Volusia counties, I am glad to know that impacted families and businesses will now have access to these resources to help with their recovery process. I continue to urge President Obama to make these designations today in the remaining counties on our east coast. Florida is strong and resilient, and while we are making every resource available from the state, we need the federal government to be a good partner and help all of our families get back on their feet." -- Governor Rick Scott

Source:
