Public Statements
Gov. Scott: We're Going to Undo the 2009 Automobile Tax Increases
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Dec. 17, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today visited the Volkswagen of Orange Park to discuss the around $400 million in tax and fee cuts in the "It's Your Money Tax Cut Agenda" that will go directly to Florida families by rolling back motor vehicle taxes and fees to pre-2009 levels. In 2009, Floridians experienced significant increases in various taxes related to the annual registration of motor vehicles, increasing the cost of registering a typical motor vehicle by an average of 54 percent.
Governor Scott said, "We want to create an opportunity economy in Florida that supports jobs for future generations. To do this, we have to make sure more families keep the money they earn so they can invest in their future. That is why we are going to undo the 54% tax increase Floridians saw in 2009 to register their motor vehicles. This means around $400 million annually will be given back to Florida families. This isn't government's money and I look forward to working with our partners in the Florida Legislature to return it back to Florida families.
Senator John Thrasher said, "I was proud to stand with Governor Scott today in continued support of his initiative to roll back fees. There is no doubt that we need to do all we can to return hard-earned tax dollars to Florida's families. I support Governor Scott in his efforts to roll back taxes and fees and look forward to helping him make these tax cuts a reality."
Senator Aaron Bean said, "High car fees are an unnecessary burden on Florida families. Governor Scott's plan to roll back car fees is a good start to giving them back more of their money."
Representative Travis Cummings said, "Governor Scott has laid out a clear agenda to return more money to Florida taxpayers. Now is a great time to make sure we reduce motor vehicle taxes and fees."
Representative Daniel Davis said, "It is totally appropriate for us to reduce the taxes for our hardworking families. I look forward to working with Governor Scott during the upcoming Legislative Session to do so."
Representative Charles McBurney said, "Because we have been fiscally responsible and made the tough decisions, we are now in a position to provide tax and fee relief to Florida families. I agree with Governor Scott that, where we can provide such relief, we should do so."
Representative Lake Ray said, "I appreciate Governor Scott's commitment to returning more money to the taxpayers who deserve it. I look forward to working with Governor Scott to return more hard-earned tax dollars to Florida families."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/12/17/gov-scott-were-going-to-undo-the-2009-automobile-tax-increases-2/
