Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Brink's Regional Services Locates Latin American Headquarters to Miami-Dade County
By: Rick Scott
Date: Dec. 5, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced Brink's Regional Services will establish its Latin American headquarters in Miami-Dade County, adding 105 jobs and $2.56 million in new capital investment within three years. Brink's Regional Services is a subsidiary of Brink's Nederland B.V. which is owned by The Brinks Company, a global leader in security-related services for banks, financial institutions, mines, retailers, diamond and jewelry industries, pharmaceuticals and a variety of other commercial and governmental customers.
Governor Scott said, "Job creators like Brink's have been the reason Florida's unemployment rate has remained below the national average in the last six months and why more families can live the American Dream in the Sunshine State. My priority since taking office has been to turn Florida's economy into the number state for business. With more than 440,000 private-sector jobs created since December 2010, IT'S WORKING in Florida and we will keep working until every Floridian has a job that wants one."
"Brink's decided to institute the LATAM Shared Service Center in Miami due to its ideal location and convenient access to all countries in Latin America, rich cultural ties to the region, and a highly qualified workforce with extensive experience and strong expertise working and serving the Latin American markets," said Orlando Bravo, Chief Financial Officer for Brink's Latin America.
Founded in 1859 and based in Richmond, Va., Brink's services includes money processing, long-distance transport of valuables, and vaulting. The new location in unincorporated Miami-Dade County will also house a financial services center supporting Latin American operations in more than 10 countries.
Florida has the 3rd largest finance and insurance cluster in the nation with some 850,000 workers at locations around the state. Florida has more than 122,000 Financial and Professional Services companies and the industry's designation as a "high impact" sector, further signifies its importance to the Florida economy.

Source:
