Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Establishment of Israeli Manufacturing Company in Ocala
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Dec. 4, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today announced that Krausz Industries, an Israeli manufacturer of products for the potable water supply industry, will establish their North American headquarters and future manufacturing facility in Ocala. The project will create 22 jobs with a capital investment of $2.45 million.
Governor Scott said, "Manufacturing businesses like Krausz can continue expanding in Florida because of our work to eliminate the tax on manufacturing equipment. Not only have we created more than 440,000 private-sector jobs since December 2010, but Florida's unemployment rate is lower than it's been in five years. But, our work is not done until every Floridian has a job that wants one."
In March 2013, Governor Rick Scott was recognized by the Consul General of the Israeli consulate and multiple chapters of the Jewish Federation for his Florida Families First Budget which enabled Enterprise Florida (EFI) to invest $100,000 to create an international economic development office in Tel Aviv, Israel. EFI's 15 international offices provide counseling services for Florida companies looking to export their products/services, as well as foreign companies interested in investing and/or doing business in Florida.
The company's new Ocala facility will serve as their North American headquarters and will be used to warehouse finished product, and to provide custom fabrication enhancements to base products made in Israel. Krausz considered North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Georgia before selecting Florida as their new home.
"Krausz Industries is proud to call Florida our North American home to serve customers with superior products and excellent service," said Danny Krausz, President of Krausz Industries. "We found Ocala to be an ideal location with convenient access to transportation across the continent and to shipping channels along the east coast. The highly skilled workforce in the area, with the skills we need, is also a huge advantage. We believe Ocala, Florida has the Perfect Climate for Business".
Since its founding in 1920, Krausz Industries has applied its focus on the manufacturing of pipe joining and repair devices built to the highest of standards. With complete manufacturing and engineering facilities located in the heart of Tel Aviv, Israel, Krausz continues the tradition of advancing the technology of pipe joining and repair, while providing a special focus on products for use in water and sewerage market sectors.
Florida's manufacturing sector has nearly 18,000 companies that employ more than 311,000 Floridians statewide. In addition, the state's multicultural and multilingual workforce provides Florida manufacturers with an excellent advantage in conducting business overseas, accounting for 93 percent of Florida's exports last year. To encourage additional manufacturing in the state, Governor Rick Scott along with the Florida legislature passed legislation eliminating sales tax on businesses purchasing manufacturing equipment. The new law goes into effect April 2014.
"Florida's manufacturing industry is expanding and this new Krausz Industries facility in Marion County will absolutely help the state continue that growth," said Gray Swoope, President & CEO of Enterprise Florida. "The removal of the M&E sales tax is already creating a renewed interest in Florida as a location for manufacturers. When you combine the tax removal with our strong workforce, low cost of living and quality life, it's hard to look past Florida."
This project was created with the help of close partnerships between Enterprise Florida, Ocala-Marion County Chamber & Economic Partnership (CEP) and the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity.
"For Ocala-Marion County this is the ideal project--combination of headquarters and manufacturing," said Carl Zalak, Chairman of the Marion County Board of County Commissioners. "Krausz will be a great addition to our community and we look forward to helping them grow here."
Ocala Mayor Kent Guinn added, "This represents the third corporate headquarters and the second with manufacturing to locate here this year. Adding the caliber of companies and jobs represented by Krausz is our focus."
"Thanks to the elimination of the tax of manufacturing equipment, Florida is now a top competitor for attracting the vitally important manufacturing industry to our state," said Jesse Panuccio, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity. "The new manufacturing facility that will be built by Krausz Industries creates stable employment opportunities for Marion County families and confirms that Florida is becoming the best place in the nation for manufacturers to grow and expand their businesses."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/12/04/governor-scott-announces-establishment-of-israeli-manufacturing-company-in-ocala/
