Public Statements
Gov. Scott: Additional $7 Million Allocated to Miami-Dade County to Combat Spread of Zika
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 11, 2016
Location: Tallahassee, FL

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that the Florida Department of Health (DOH) will allocate $7.4 million in additional state funding to Miami-Dade County to combat the spread of the Zika Virus through mosquito control. The funding will be used for additional mosquito control staff and increased mosquito spraying. This funding is part of the $61.2 million in state funds Governor Scott has authorized for Zika preparedness since June. To date, Miami-Dade has received $12.6 million in state funds.
Governor Scott said, "Miami-Dade County has more than 130 cases of locally transmitted Zika and more than 230 travel related cases. We are working to aggressively fight this virus, but it is clear that more resources are needed to keep Floridians safe. While Congress passed funding to fight Zika, we have not received any yet in Florida. Today, I directed DOH to immediately allocate $7 million in state funding to Miami-Dade County to ensure the community can continue aggressively fighting this virus.
"We also still have multiple outstanding requests to the Obama Administration for important Zika preparedness resources. Every day that passes that Florida does not receive funding or resources means more time is lost from researching this virus and protecting pregnant women and their developing babies. Our state will continue to dedicate every available resource to keeping pregnant women and their developing children safe and healthy."
Click HERE to see a detailed timeline of actions taken by Governor Scott to combat the Zika virus in Florida.
OUTSTANDING REQUESTS TO OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
The CDC to match Florida's $25 million investment in Zika research to help develop a vaccine. (Governor Scott requested on Sept. 28th)
The CDC to take immediate action to accelerate their testing process. (Governor Scott requested on Sept. 28th)
The CDC to provide Miami-Dade County and the City of Miami Beach with guidance on how to better control the mosquitos that carry Zika. (Governor Scott requested on Sept. 28th)
The CDC to host a call with community leaders and clinicians in Miami Beach to answer questions and provide the latest information and guidance on Zika. (Governor Scott requested on Sept. 16th)
An additional 10,000 Zika prevention kits. (Governor Scott requested on Aug. 19th)
A detailed plan from the Obama Administration on how they would like Florida to work with FEMA now that Zika has become mosquito-borne. (Initially requested on June 1st -- requested again Aug. 19th)

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2016/10/11/gov-scott-additional-7-million-allocated-to-miami-dade-county-to-combat-spread-of-zika-2/
