Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Aircraft Manufacturing Partnership in Charlotte County
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 22, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott announced that a partnership between Punta Gorda-based Aviation Partners Group (APG) and OMA SUD, a leading Italian aeronautic manufacturer, will establish a manufacturing facility in Charlotte County. The project will create 10 jobs and a capital investment of $500,000.
Governor Scott said, "The expansion of APG's manufacturing facility means ten individuals will have great jobs and will be able to provide for their families. The new jobs created by this partnership add to the more than 365,000 private sector jobs created since December 2010 and are further proof that it's working in Florida."
Working in partnership with OMA SUD, APG is scheduled to begin production in 2014 with orders for complete assembly of 45 "SKYCAR," OMA SUD's twin-engine, five -passenger aircraft. APG serves as the parent company for the APG family of four subsidiaries, including APG Avionics, APG Rotables, APG-NEBO Aviation Services and APG Airpark Realty.
Together, APG serves the needs of more than 45,000 clients across the globe, ranging from OEMs to governmental and military entities, owners of charter and corporate aircrafts, flight schools, air ambulance services, and individual aircraft owners.
Founder of APG, Boris Nekrasov said, "The Punta Gorda location has always been a natural fit. The location advantages here, including supply chain and labor advantages, helped make the choice easy. And the warm winters are a nice change."
Florida is already home to more than 2,000 aerospace and aviation companies employing over 87,000 workers across the state. No. 2 in the state in aviation, aerospace, and space establishments, Florida is the world's premier gateway to space.
"The establishment of the manufacturing facility in Charlotte County is a great addition to our aerospace and aviation sector. The partnership between these two companies is great for our workforce and our international relations," said Gray Swoope, Secretary of Commerce and president & CEO of Enterprise Florida. "I look forward to seeing the SKYCAR next year and wish APG and OMA SUD great success."
This project was made possible thanks to strong partnerships between Charlotte County Economic Development Office, Charlotte County Board of County Commissioners Enterprise Florida, and the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity.
"APG is a great asset for our area for several reasons," said Charlotte County Commissioner Christopher Constance. "This is exactly the kind of business venture we've been looking to attract."
"Focus on clusters like aeronautics and targeted recruitment of companies like APG hold the key for further economic development success," Tom Patton, Executive Director of the Charlotte County Economic Development Office said. "The investment is well worth it because it provides key foundational support for Charlotte County's emerging aerospace cluster."
Charlotte County's notable aerospace organizations include: Arcadia Aerospace and four Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University Aerospace Career Academy co-location campuses in the Charlotte County School System.
"We are excited that APG will establish a manufacturing facility in Charlotte County, taking advantage of Florida's pro-business climate, sensible regulations, and technology and talent pipelines. APG's facility will help grow two industries that are critical to Florida's future -- manufacturing and aerospace," said Jesse Panuccio, Executive Director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity. "Manufacturing and technology companies around the country are realizing Florida is the best place to grow their businesses."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/11/22/governor-scott-announces-aircraft-manufacturing-partnership-in-charlotte-county/
