Public Statements
Governor Rick Scott and Volunteer Florida Present Champion of Service Award to Shawn Shattuck
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 19, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today at the Cabinet meeting, Shawn Shattuck was presented the Volunteer Florida Champion of Service Award by Governor Rick Scott and Volunteer Florida CEO Chester Spellman.
Governor Scott said, "It is an honor to present the Champion of Service Award to Shawn today for his volunteer leadership and dedication to Florida families. His work turned tragedy into triumph, and I applaud his efforts to help others overcome similar challenging situations."
After losing his job as an oysterman due to challenges faced by Franklin County's commercial seafood industry, Shawn Shattuck volunteered with Franklin's Promise Coalition's "A Hand Up: Volunteer Emergency Assistance Program" an emergency assistance fund established to provide unemployed residents assistance with utilities and basic needs. While volunteering at the coalition, Shawn helped with a variety of projects, including Toys for Tots, Running for the Bay, and local food pantries. On March 1, 2013, Shawn started his own business, "Shawn's Honey-Do Services, LLC" where he offers services in tiling, moving, lawn care, carpentry, and painting. He continues to volunteer throughout the community and is currently working with Franklin's Promise Coalition as a volunteer leader for their "Reach Back" program, which helps others in the community reach their full potential.
Volunteer Florida CEO Chester Spellman said, "Studies have shown that volunteering can be an excellent pathway to employment, with volunteers being 27 percent more likely to find employment than non-volunteers. I congratulate Shawn on his service and encourage all unemployed Floridians to consider volunteering as a way to garner skills while strengthening communities."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/11/19/governor-rick-scott-and-volunteer-florida-present-champion-of-service-award-to-shawn-shattuck/
