Public Statements
Governor Scott Honors Five Veterans Turned Teachers With Shine Awards
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 19, 2013
Location: Unknown

During today's meeting of the Florida Cabinet, Governor Rick Scott recognized five educators who formerly served in various branches of the military with the Governor's Shine Award for their service to our country and their contributions to Florida's students.
Governor Scott said, "It is an honor to thank these teachers who went from serving their country to serving Florida students in the classroom. A great education system is key to creating a highly-skilled workforce and driving our economy forward. These teachers have gone above and beyond the call of duty by preparing our students today for the jobs of tomorrow, and I thank them for their continued service to Florida families."
The Shine Award is presented to Floridians who have positively impacted children through education.
The following teachers received Shine awards today:
Kenneth McAllister, U.S. Air Force, Clay County, Clay High School -- McAllister retired from the United States Air Force after 15 years of service. He studied Education at Langley Air Force Base through the Old Dominion University Distance Learning program and continued his studies at the University of North Florida. McAllister has been a Special Education and Social Studies teacher in the Clay County School District for 17 years. He currently teaches at Clay High School in Green Cove Springs. McAllister believes that each student is unique and he strives to bring out their unlimited learning and creative abilities in the classroom.
Glenn Meyer, U.S. Air Force, Escambia County, Navy Point Elementary -- Meyer served in the United States Air Force for 21 years before retiring at NAS Pensacola in November 2009. His last 11 years of service were in education and training commitments. Meyer began his teaching career in 2009 and has since taught 5th and 2nd grades at Pleasant Grove Elementary School. He now teaches 5th grade at Navy Point Elementary School in Pensacola.
David Silverman, U.S. Marine Corp & Florida Army National Guard, Clay County, Center for Adult & Community Education -- Silverman served in the United States Marine Corp for 11 years before switching to active duty in the Florida Army National Guard. He retired with 24 years of active duty service. Silverman began his teaching career seven years ago as an 8th grade Algebra teacher. He taught Adult Education classes at night for six years before becoming an Adult Education teacher full time this year.
Katherine Stefansson, U.S. Navy, Escambia County, Bellview Middle School -- Stefansson retired from the United States Navy as a Public Affairs Officer and went on to receive her Master's degree in Education. She taught in three different elementary schools before moving to Bellview Middle School in Pensacola where she now teaches 8th grade American History. Her favorite part of teaching is helping students learn how to make connections between what they learn in class and how it can affect their daily lives.
Jacqueline Williams, U.S. Navy, Duval County, A. Philip Randolph Academies of Technology -- Williams retired from the United States Navy after more than 21 years of service. After retirement, she fulfilled her dream of becoming an educator and has been serving the students of Duval County for more than seven years. She currently teaches American Government, Economics and AP Psychology at A. Philip Randolph High School Academies of Technology in Jacksonville.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/11/19/governor-scott-honors-five-veterans-turned-teachers-with-shine-awards/
