Public Statements
Governor Scott Applauds Partnership Between FDOT and City of Miami to Build I-395 Signature Bridge
Press Release
By: Eddy Gonzalez Frank Artiles Manny Diaz, Jr. Rene Garcia Jose Diaz Michael Bileca Tomas Regalado Erik Fresen Jeanette Nunez Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 12, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott announced today that the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) has committed to building a cost effective I-395 bridge that will improve connectivity between I-95 and PortMiami, while revitalizing the Miami community. The FDOT will seek appropriations from the Florida Legislature in the department's Work Program with the goal of beginning construction in 2018.
Governor Scott said, "I'm proud to announce that in partnership with the City of Miami, we have developed a path forward in constructing this signature bridge. Miami is a global hub for business and tourism, and through our investment in PortMiami and the PortMiami Tunnel project, Florida's strength in the global marketplace will only continue to grow."
Senator Rene Garcia said, "The I-395 signature bridge will improve access to and from PortMiami. Not only will this project provide an economic impact, the bridge will be an inspiring tribute to Miami's status as a major global leader."
Representative Eddy Gonzalez said, "As we continue to see investments in Florida's ports, this project will further strengthen PortMiami as Florida prepares for the expansion of the Panama Canal. The I-395 signature bridge will allow the City of Miami and Florida to become the trade gateway to the Americas and beyond."
Representative Manny Diaz said, "Thank you to Governor Scott and all of the partners for working to move the project forward. The project will greatly benefit Miami Dade County as it will create jobs, attract business and strengthen Florida's transportation system while enhancing the movement of trade from PortMiami."
Representative Michael Bileca said, "Every major international city has a bridge that helps define it and we are proud to work with Governor Scott on getting this project going. While there have been discussions for some time, it is under this administration that we will get funding for it, which is a big win for families of Miami and the surrounding region."
Representative Jeanette Nunez said, "I want to thank Governor Scott and FDOT for providing leadership to take steps to ultimately get this project through the finish line. Miami deserves an incredible bridge that will spur economic growth, support PortMiami, and make our roads safer."
Representative Frank Artiles said, "Today's announcement is exciting news as the I-395 signature bridge will improve connectivity as well as be a true gem for the community. Thank you to Governor Scott, the Florida Department of Transportation and the City of Miami for working together to move forward on this important project."
Representative Jose Felix Diaz said, "With increased investments in PortMiami and the news of the I-395 signature bridge, it's clear that Miami is poised to strengthen its position as leader in trade and commerce. I applaud Governor Scott's continued investment and thank everyone involved for their hard work and dedication to make this day a reality."
Representative Erik Fresen said, "I am proud that we are taking such an incredible step forward. Miami deserves a bridge that will better connect our communities, our airports and the port so families have access to even greater opportunities. Today's announcement is a game changer for our region, and I look forward seeing this project all the way through."
Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez said, "Today is a great day for our County. We applaud Governor Scott for making this project a reality and confident it will help move Miami forward."
City of Miami Mayor Regalado said, "PortMiami is incredibly important to Florida's economic success and this project will improve access to it. Miami is undeniably a global hub for business and this project will be a huge success for the Miami community."
Miami City Commissioner Marc Sarnoff said, "On behalf of the City of Miami, we applaud Governor Scott for making this project a priority. This project is a win for Miami-Dade residents, the millions of visitors to our area and will make a tremendous impact for the state of Florida."
PortMiami Director Bill Johnson said, "This is great news. For PortMiami, it's all about connectivity--moving people and goods efficiently and effectively. The Interstate improvements, like the soon to be completed Port Tunnel, will benefit not only our cruise and cargo businesses but will also provide improved traffic flow to and from downtown and adjacent areas."
Armando Codina, Chair, Town Square Neighborhood Development Corporation said, "I am very pleased that Town Square Neighborhood Development Corporation was able to play a constructive role in bringing all the parties together to settle this issue and move forward with what we are assured will be a landmark signature bridge. It is rewarding to see this unanimity of purpose between civic and political leaders working together hand in hand to achieve such an important goal. On behalf of the Town Square Neighborhood Development Corporation, I want to thank Governor Rick Scott, Florida Department of Transportation Secretary Ananth Prasad and Miami Commissioner Marc Sarnoff for their commitment to this historic project."
Secretary Prasad said, "I thank Governor Scott's leadership for the transformation of the state of Florida and Miami into a global trade gateway."
The City of Miami and FDOT agreed to the creation of an advisory committee of five individuals to be selected by mutual agreement between the city and the department.
The advisory committee will be tasked with:
Evaluating and recommending to the department, from among the various bridge concepts proposed by FDOT, the bridge concept that best fulfills the commitments made by FDOT as part of the Project Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), and adopted by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) in its Record of Decision for the project
Providing input to FDOT on the selection criteria for teams interested in submitting proposals for the project
Serving as an aesthetic advisory group to FDOT during the procurement of the firms to design and build the project.
The parties also agreed that the cost of the entire renovation project shall not exceed $600,000,000.
FDOT is developing the preliminary design for a roadway project along SR 836/I-395, from west of I-95 to the MacArthur Causeway Bridge in Miami. This project will rebuild Interstate 395 (I-395), from west of I-95/midtown interchange to the West Channel Bridges of the MacArthur Causeway, approximately 1.4 miles.

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/11/12/governor-scott-applauds-partnership-between-fdot-and-city-of-miami-to-build-i-395-signature-bridge/
