Public Statements
Governor Scott Leads Business Development Mission to Japan
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Nov. 1, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott will lead a delegation of more than 20 business leaders to Japan for his 10th international mission from November 2-9. The mission is focused on increasing business development opportunities for companies from Japan to invest, grow and create jobs in Florida. During the mission, the Governor will meet with more than a dozen leading Japanese companies, and speak to more than 350 business leaders at seminars and forums promoting Florida as a super-state for business.
Governor Scott said, "Florida is undoubtedly the number one tourist and business destination and our upcoming trip to Japan will allow us to meet with Japanese business leaders and talk with them about why they should invest in Florida and create jobs for our families."
The mission's goal is to recruit more foreign direct investment (FDI) for Florida and to encourage Japanese-owned businesses in the state to expand. According to the latest available data, more than 2,500 FDI establishments in Florida account for 236,000 jobs. Florida has a number of strengths to leverage, including one of the fastest growing international economies, 19 commercial airports and 15 deepwater seaports as well as a large and skilled multicultural workforce.
Japan is the number one country that invests in Florida in terms of property, plant and equipment with $4.11 billion. There are more than 200 known Japanese-owned companies in the state that account for 20,400 Florida jobs. Florida is a major gateway for merchandise trade between North America, Latin America and the Caribbean. The expansion of the Panama Canal will make the state an even more attractive location for Japanese companies looking to expand in those key markets. In addition, the state maintains a sister-jurisdiction relationship with Wakayama Prefecture and nine Florida cities partner with sister cities in Japan.
"Japan is a significant foreign direct investor in the state and this business development mission provides opportunities for Florida to strengthen relationships with Japanese companies," said Gray Swoope, President and CEO of Enterprise Florida. "Throughout the mission we will promote Florida as the most strategic location for Japanese companies to expand not only in our state, but to reach new opportunities nationwide and in Latin America."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/11/01/governor-scott-leads-business-development-mission-to-japan/
