Public Statements
Governor Scott Highlights $80 M Graduate Medical Education Program
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 28, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Rick Scott was joined by Agency for Health Care Administration Secretary Liz Dudek, as well as officials from Florida International University's College of Medicine and more than a dozen local hospitals to highlight his commitment to graduate medical education through the new Statewide Residency Program. For the first time, hospitals are receiving a supplemental payment specifically for graduate medical education, which was made possible by the $80 million appropriation recommended by Governor Scott in the Florida Families First Budget.
Governor Scott said, "For us to grow more opportunities for Florida families, we must attract and keep our health care professionals here in Florida. More doctors means less wait times, more access to health care services -- and keeping some of our brightest in the Sunshine State. That's why my Florida Families First budget invested $80 million for the Graduate Medical Education programs, which helps hospitals expand their residency programs. In the Broward-Dade region alone, this program will invest $33 million to expand residency programs in 15 hospitals. This program is the first of its kind to coordinate with hospitals on supporting their medical education programs."
"This funding specifically for graduate medical education is another way Governor Scott has demonstrated his commitment to education, health care and jobs," said Secretary Liz Dudek. "It will improve access to and quality of care for all Floridians, expand graduate medical education on an equitable basis, and increase the supply of highly trained physicians statewide."
"As Florida's population continues to increase, Governor Scott is taking important steps to address the need for physicians to serve Floridians in every community," said State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong. "We are pleased that the Graduate Medical Education Program continues to expand graduate medical education that will help keep newly trained physicians in Florida."

Source:
