Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces Expansion of 160over90 Agency to Gainesville
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 23, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today announced that 160over90, an internationally recognized branding agency, is expanding their southeast regional headquarters to Gainesville. The project will create 35 new jobs and $500,000 in capital investment.
Governor Scott said, "We are excited to announce that 160over90 has chosen to locate their southeast regional headquarters in Gainesville. Florida's unemployment rate is below the national average at 7 percent and nearly 370,000 private-sector jobs have been created in just over two years. Today's announcement is a clear sign that it's working in Florida."
160over90 is an international branding agency that works with their clients to overcome business and marketing challenges. Their expertise lie in the areas of branding, design, advertising, interactive, public relations/brand engagement and photography. Some of their major clients include American Eagle Outfitters, Nike, Mercedes-Benz and Sony.
CEO and principal of 160over90 Shannon Price Slusher said, "When we began looking to expand in the southeast, our focus was to find a unique city with a lot of opportunity. We visited Gainesville and fell in love with the city, the people and the vibe. We see a renaissance happening there from a creative and technological standpoint. The state and chamber of commerce were aggressive in reaching out and helping us, and they really promoted the city well. We wanted to be a part of that and we're proud to call Gainesville our new home."
There are nearly 850,000 employees in the financial and professional services sector in Florida. Florida has the second highest number of professional, scientific and technical services companies in the country.
"This relocation is not only a great addition to Florida's financial and professional services sector, but it's adding to our growing base of headquarters," said Secretary of Commerce Gray Swoope, who also serves as president & CEO of Enterprise Florida. "Florida has all the necessary resources for businesses to succeed; with Florida's low corporate tax burden and no personal income tax, high-quality workforce and modern infrastructure, professional services companies like 160over90 benefit from our pro-business climate."
"Florida's economy is making a comeback and companies like 160over90 are realizing the pro-growth business climate Florida provides," said Jesse Panuccio Executive Director of the Florida Department of Ehttp://www.flgov.com/2013/10/23/governor-scott-announces-expansion-of-160over90-agency-to-gainesville/conomic Opportunity. "We are happy 160over90 chose Gainesville for its relocation; the city has a renewed spirit for business and many companies are seeing it's potential. CEO Magazine ranked Florida the second best state in the nation for business, and we cannot wait to become first."
The project was made possible thanks to strong partnerships at the state and local levels. Along with Enterprise Florida, Inc., Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce and the Council for Economic Outreach, Workforce Florida, Inc. and the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity worked with 160over90 to make this expansion possible.
Gainesville Mayor Ed Braddy said, "The City of Gainesville welcomes the expansion of 160over90 to our community. This international company recognizes what others are rapidly coming to understand -- that Gainesville is serious about creating opportunity for business through innovation, a strong workforce and unparalleled quality of life."
"On behalf of all citizens of Alachua County and the Board of County Commissioners, I would like to welcome 160over90 to our community," said Lee Pinkoson, incoming Chair of the Alachua Board of County Commissioners. "This type of industry will benefit greatly from the abundant talent and high quality of life in Alachua County, and our county will benefit through increased economic activity and jobs for our citizens."
John Carlson, Chair of the Council for Economic Outreach and CEO of local construction firm Charles Perry Partners, Inc. said, "The addition of 160over90 to our regional business community is a great testament to the opportunities increasing in our fast growing city. The well recognized work this company undertakes on behalf of client businesses all over the world is extremely impressive, and we welcome the addition of their office here. Gainesville has truly developed into a city with an amazing talent pipeline and high quality of life which companies from all industries can leverage. We welcome 160over90 and look forward to supporting all their efforts."
Chris Hart IV, President and CEO of Workforce Florida Inc. said, "The expansion of 160over90 to Gainesville underscores the global competitiveness of Florida's workforce. Our partnership with companies such as this one ensures our talented workforce has access to education and training opportunities to grow their skills and helps to distinguish Florida as a prime destination for business."

Source: http://www.flgov.com/2013/10/23/governor-scott-announces-expansion-of-160over90-agency-to-gainesville/
