Public Statements
Governor Scott Announces $35 Million Commitment for Florida Port Projects
Press Release
By: Rick Scott
Date: Oct. 16, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Scott today announced a commitment of nearly $35 million for strategic port projects across Florida that will be recommended to the Legislature for the upcoming legislative session. The additional investments will be included in the Florida Department of Transportation's (FDOT) Work Program. Governor Scott made the announcement at the American Association of Port Authority's (AAPA) Annual Convention in Orlando.
Governor Scott said, "We're on the right track to growing more jobs for families with increased investments in our seaports. With this nearly $35 million commitment for critical port projects, we'll enhance our ports' ability to move more goods which will position Florida to play an even greater role in global trade. Our strategy to make Florida the gateway for global trade is working."
The three Florida ports included in the Governor's proposal for additional funding are:
Port Canaveral -- $9.7 million for development of a container yard.
Port Everglades -- $14.7 million to support the Turning Notch project.
Port of Tampa -- $10.4 million to improve its container yard.
Between 2011 and 2014, $642 million has been allocated for on-port projects, including waterside projects for Canaveral, Miami and Jacksonville, and terminal and rail improvements at Tampa. Just last month, Governor Scott and the Cabinet approved the proposed bond issuance of $150 million to fund 16 important projects at Florida seaports. In this current fiscal year, the state of Florida (including projects funded through the upcoming bond issuance) is funding over $275 million directly on seaport projects.
Bill Johnson, Port Director of PortMiami said, "These strategic investments in Florida ports will bring short-term and long-term economic benefits for our region, our state and the nation. Governor Scott's recognition of ports as job creators and commitment to growing our state through international trade is true leadership in the face of a challenging economic landscape."

Source:
