Public Statements
Tsunami Warning And Education Act
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Dec. 6, 2006
Location: Washington, DC

TSUNAMI WARNING AND EDUCATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - December 06, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, today we will be taking action so that America's shorelines do not suffer the same fate as Indonesia's on December 26, 2004. I am very pleased that this prolonged effort has arrived today where Congress is going to take measures to give Americans a warning and an ability to avoid damage from a tsunami before that big tsunami hits.
We are in danger and threatened on our coastlines in Washington. First, I will allude to the Pacific. Right off the coastline of Washington and Oregon in the Pacific is what is called the Cascadia subduction zone. This is an evil twin sister of the fault in Indonesia. It is almost identical to the fault off the coastline of Indonesia that caused that quake that cost hundreds of thousands of lives. We have similar subduction zones in the Alaskan-Aleutian zone. We are in the bull's-eye of a potential tsunami. In fact, one happened on February 26, 1700, off the coastline of Washington, and sent what could have been 50-foot waves onto the coastline. We need to do a better job, and this bill is a good start.
The good news is we have some great technology to deal with this issue. We have these detection buoys that use a product developed in Redmond, Washington, in my district, by a company called Paro Scientific. These buoys are anchored off the coastline and they have a little sensor that is on the bottom of the ocean that can measure the difference of depth of one-tenth of an inch over 2-mile deep water. It is an incredible technology. Then it radios changes in the average depth of the ocean to a satellite. In a matter of seconds, we have a system that can generate information along our coastlines. We have six of these buoys, we need at least 20 in the Pacific. For the first time, this bill will put some buoys in the Atlantic as well.
This will be a first international tsunami warning system using what are called piezometers to measure the depth of the ocean.
The second thing the bill is going to do is the critical link in the chain of warning because buoys aren't enough. We have got to have a way to warn people, to educate people, to have systems in place so that they can evacuate along the coastlines. A little community called LaPush, Washington now has a system where they can move the whole city in about 12 to 15 minutes. We need to have those systems, and this bill is going to do that.
I want to say there is an additional benefit of this bill. False alarms happen as well. And when false alarms happen, we lose millions of dollars when we have false alarms. This whole system will reduce false alarms so that for the first time we can have a credible, meaningful, reliable tsunami detection and warning system in this country. It is overdue. I am glad we are going to have it happen. It is one of the crowning achievements of the great career of Chairman SHERWOOD BOEHLERT, who has done such great work for the environment and for science. We are all going to miss his great leadership.
I want to note a fellow who just left the Speaker's chair, Representative CHARLIE BASS, who hopefully will take credit for this as well for his great environmental stewardship. And it is a good day for America's shorelines to protect us from tsunamis.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/

Source: https://admin.votesmart.org/loadCandidateSpeechDetail.do?candidateSpeechId=3610
