Public Statements
Private Property Rights Implementation Act Of 2006
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 29, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS IMPLEMENTATION ACT OF 2006 -- (House of Representatives - September 29, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, it is difficult to understand my friends on the Republican side of the aisle's efforts to stick this burden on the taxpayers and allow developers to do the equivalent of developer's gerrymandering to increase their profits. Why should the taxpayers have to succumb to developers doing to the taxpayers what politicians have done to the voters?
Politicians, what they have done to the voters is carved out these little districts to try to keep their seats safe. If this bill were to become law, which it will not, it will allow developers to carve up their little development, fancy little lines to extract the maximum amount of money from the taxpayers.
Where is the reason to allow developers to decide their own rules, to write their own paycheck from the taxpayers? We have laws on the books enforced by supreme courts that say that, if you have your property taken as a whole, you get compensation. But this bill will game the system, will create this arbitrary system where the developer decides, not the courts, and that is a massive gambit to allow the guy who wants to build a strip club or a gambling spot or a strip mall in your neighborhood to make it impossible for your local community to have meaningful zoning to protect your neighborhood.
And it is done for one single reason, to put money in developers pockets in a way that is not fair. And, by the way, this is not about grandma out in her backyard. It is about people wanting to break up large chunks for a subdivision, and decide that they are going to take a wetlands. Right now, if there is a wetlands, and we have lost humungous amounts of wetlands in the last couple hundred years; whether there is a taking depends on the whole property.
Do not allow this gambit to take place. It is not fair. It is not Constitutional, and it is not going to pass.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, there is a lot of anger about eminent domain law right now because of the Kelo decision, and I am one of the people who disagrees with that decision. I do not believe it is wise to allow eminent domain to be used for private purposes, and I think it was a poorly decided decision.
But I want to make sure that the Members understand. This bill does nothing to fix that problem. If you are angry about Kelo, this bill is not medicine. It does nothing to change the standards for when eminent domain can be used by Federal or municipal governments.
So this does not solve the problem, and I want to yield to Mr. Chabot, if I could, for a moment. I just want to make sure that we are on the same page on this. I have looked diligently through this and can find nothing that changes the eminent domain standard that would overturn the Kelo decision.
Do you agree with me on that assessment?
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. INSLEE. I yield to the gentleman from Ohio.
Mr. CHABOT. I agree that this is not directly related to Kelo, although there is, I think in many people's minds, some connection, and I think rightfully so.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I want to make clear it is not the impression in people's minds that counts in Congress. It is what is in people's bills, and in this bill is nothing to solve the Kelo problem.
We should not let anger about Kelo allow developers to game taxpayers. This bill should be rejected.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
