Public Statements
Iraq Watch
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 14, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


IRAQ WATCH -- (House of Representatives - September 14, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Well, you pointed out something that I just realized. President Bush, when he ran for office back in 2000, said he would be the great uniter. Many of us have been disappointed, in fact, that he has divided the country like no President in modern history. When we were united after September 11 with us and the whole world, he has now divided the country.
But I think finally he has united two ununitable, intractable foes, one, an axis of evil, Iran, who we are trying to defeat, in some way to prevent them from having nuclear weapons. He has united Iraq and made Iran a more fundamentalist Islamic government, a more powerful entity on the world stage, more powerful, as he describes them, axis of evil, and the President finally fulfilled his destiny of being the great uniter.
Mr. DELAHUNT. Exactly. The President of the United States has achieved a remarkable, an absolutely remarkable, accomplishment.
Mr. INSLEE. After this conference of Tehran between the axis of evil and the new government the President has created in Iraq, one of the leaders described the other leader as their, quote, good friend. I don't know if it was the President of Iran, the axis of evil describing the new government created by George Bush in Iraq or vice versa. Do you know which one it was?
Mr. DELAHUNT. I don't think it was ``friend.'' It was not ``friend,'' but it was even more intimate. I can't find the quote right now, even though this is a story that came out today where the Prime Minister of Iraq, after his meeting with President Ahmadinejad, he then goes and meets with the Supreme Iranian leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and the terms that they use are brothers, brothers.
Now, I wonder, is this an effort to unify?
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. I want to point out something, why this is such a diabolical development that the President has given to the world and the United States, and that is it is very simple. We have folks in harm's way today, we have lost 2,600 of our finest men and women in Iraq, and it is very clear that we are not going to get those people out unless the leadership of Iraq and the Shiite factions finally reach an agreement regarding oil revenues with the Sunnis and the Kurds in Iraq. This picture is a picture of the friendship of the Shiite-led fundamentalist Iranian government essentially signing up with the Shiite-led faction of the government in Iraq, and this President has refused to drop the hammer on the government of Iraq to tell them that they have to make a deal about oil revenues right now and refusing to continue to keep our troops there in harm's way unless they do.
Because it is clear that unless this President makes very clear to the Shiites and the Sunnis and the Kurds that if they don't reach an agreement about oil revenue, which they are arguing about today, and have been arguing about for 3 years, we could be there for 500 years and not solve the problem. This President has simply allowed them to shake hands and not put pressure on them, not drop the hammer on them. That is what he has got to do, and he hasn't done it.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. I think when we talk about the wrong country, it has been the wrong country in two different ways. First, the President has united Iran, part of the ``axis of evil,'' with Iraq, rather than uniting America. He got the countries wrong in that regard.
But, more importantly, he got the countries wrong about which country is a nuclear threat to the United States of America. He invaded Iraq, when the nuclear threat to the United States of America is Iran. As a result of Mr. Bush's war, he has made the nuclear threat to the United States of America, Iran, more powerful by uniting it with Iraq, making Iran a more powerful figure in the Mideast by taking our eye off the ball, reducing our ability to build an international consensus to impose sanctions against Iran, because he invaded the wrong country.
Do you know what? I was so astounded that the Vice President of the United States made a statement last weekend that made me think there is some hallucinogen in the water that people are drinking in this administration when he said, and this is a paraphrase, it is not an exact quote, even if we knew that the weapons were in Iran, not in Iraq, that there was no relationship between Saddam Hussein and the attack on 9/11, that we were going to lose 2,600 troops dead and 15,000 injured, the destruction of our international coalition, even if I knew that all the things we told Americans were misstatements, were falsehoods, even with all of those falsehoods, I would have done just the same thing again.
That attitude, as long as that attitude prevails in this country, as long as we don't have a Congress to ride herd on those people in the White House, including the Vice President, our people are going to be in a dark, dark hole in Iraq. That is why we need a new Congress and a new government, to get a policy in Iraq, to get our people home.
Mr. DELAHUNT. With the end game being the forging of an alliance between Iran and Iraq, what we have done is, the policies of this administration, without a single question being posed by this majority, we have created a hegemony in the Middle East, and that is the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Don't think that this photo is the last time we will see these gentlemen together. The current prime minister during the Saddam Hussein years spent considerable time in Tehran and in Syria. I am not even blaming him.
Where is the administration? Where is the House International Relations Committee, which I serve on with my friend and colleague from California, DIANE WATSON? Why isn't there hearing after hearing after hearing asking these questions?
Mr. INSLEE. It is not us asking where Congress has been challenging these failures by the administration, it is our constituents. I went for a walk last weekend, and I ran across an old friend whose son is serving in Iraq today, and he has just been moved to Baghdad because we have stripped our forces from Al Anbar Province where they are needed to put them in Baghdad, because we have never had enough troops there to get the job done, the President has never been willing to do it. The mother of their child is also serving in Iraq, so they are essentially raising this 1-year-old.
He asked me this question: Why isn't anyone in Congress insisting that the President get serious about telling the Iraqi Shiites to strike a deal about oil with the Sunnis so they can finally form a real government and our troops can come home? Why isn't there anybody in Congress asking that question?
I said, Hal, I am happy to ask that question. He said, go do it. Be vocal about this. Make sure the administration gets their feet held to the fire, for my son and everybody else serving in Iraq.
So we are doing this tonight. But, frankly, we need a new majority in this House to do it with hearings. That is what we really need.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
