Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of H. R. 5970, Estate Tax and Extension of Tax Relief Act of 2006
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 28, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5970, ESTATE TAX AND EXTENSION OF TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2006 -- (House of Representatives - July 28, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, you have to ask why Members of the U.S. Congress would hold working families ransom for a very modest increase in the minimum wage after so much time has passed. Why would Members of Congress do that? How could they possibly deny people who work in our nursing homes and care for our families, people who work cleaning up our schools, people who work laboring under the hot sun on various sites, how could Members of the U.S. Congress hold them hostage? To get what their special interests, the wealthiest among us, what they want: these million dollar tax breaks.
How could they possibly do that? Well, the best explanation I can come up with is that those same Members who are holding these working families hostage tonight have had over $30,000 pay raises in the last several years themselves. Eight times they have received pay raises. Eight times their families have been well clothed and well fed. Eight times they have gone on trips on airplanes. Eight times they have had their health care needs met without worrying how they are going to pay for their kids' appendectomy. They are conditioned to be able to allow their families, the working families of this country, to tell them to go fish.
It is a moral outrage to tell the working families of this country tonight, in the darkness of night, where evil is traditionally done in human affairs, that you can tell these families that they can just go fish and not get a tiny little raise in the minimum wage unless these, the well-heeled, the special interests, those who have influence in here get their piece of the action.
Well, let me tell you, there is something in the Good Book that says by their acts ye shall know them. And by your votes you shall know them. There is a group here in Congress that thinks there is only a special group that counts in this country, and that our genius is only the wealthy.
We are the group who believes that working people are just as entitled to the respect of this Congress as those who are well off. Reject this rule and pass the minimum wage as we should.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
