Public Statements
Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2007
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 13, 2006
Location: Washington, DC

TRANSPORTATION, TREASURY, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, THE JUDICIARY, THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA AND INDEPENDENT AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, this would restore $260 million to the Public Housing Capital Fund. As Members know, this is a critical fund that delivers housing services to make sure that our public housing is up to snuff and our citizens can live in safe housing.
This is a fund that makes sure that the roofs don't leak on our citizens, air ventilation doesn't cause asthma, and we don't allow termites to infest our public housing facilities. Despite the criticality of that fund, the current bill as proposed would cut $260 million, an 11 percent slash out of this budget of this very important fund.
Mr. Chairman, we will simply restore that cut to go back to the status quo of the level of funding for the Public Housing Capital Fund.
The reason we suggest this is that our offset for this would be a small cut to the Federal building budget. It would essentially result in about a 3.5 percent cut to the Federal building budget, and what we suggest by this amendment is that in difficult times, if we are going to have to have cuts in these Federal budgets, it should first come out of where we house our Federal agencies and, second, come out of where we house our citizens.
Our citizens ought to have first claim to the money. The kids that we are trying to avoid an epidemic of asthma, some of which we believe is caused by poor housing, they ought not to be suffering right now if we have to slash some budget. If we have to delay some bureaucracy, getting an upgrade in an agency, that is really a delay that kids in public housing cannot take a slash in the health of these budgets.
I just want to point out the one thing that this public housing fund does that is so effective.
One of the problems of our folks in public housing are their energy costs. A lot of these people pay 50 percent and more of their income in housing costs, and their energy costs eats them alive. I looked at St. Paul. Over 26 percent of all the evictions there were essentially caused because of high utility costs, and one of the things this public housing fund can do is help get better weatherization, more efficient heating/cooling systems to reduce energy costs. In fact, if we reduce our energy costs by 10 percent, we will save $20 billion of these folks in public housing.
So our amendment does some things that are very common sense. It will go back to status quo. It will restore a $260 million slashed cut to public housing. It will offset that by a 3.5 percent cut to the Federal budget. Let us give first priority to our citizens and their housing and second priority to a small cut to housing some of our Federal agencies. It is the right thing to do. It is common sense.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Well, while I respect my friend's argument, it is quite artful, but not every dollar spent by the Federal Government goes to terrorism, as the suggestion would be.
Let us be real here in this discussion. We will leave $7.44 billion in the Federal building fund, and in that fund the vast majority of those dollars are spent for housing Federal office workers, not Border Patrol, and to suggest that somehow that if this cut takes place we are going to be bombarded by immigrants is a great stretch, artful perhaps, but a tremendous stretch.
What we are really talking about, we are talking about delaying perhaps for a year expanded Federal bureaucracies and the square footage they have in their Federal offices and office buildings scattered all across America. We are talking about suggesting that that delay in expanding the square footage for Federal office workers, as hard as they work and I respect them a bunch, is something that we ought to figure is a common-sense thing to do, instead of cutting $260 million when people are living in substandard housing that has an $18 billion backlog.
So, let us look at the real life and not get wrapped around the argument that anything that changes a Republican budget somehow smacks of being soft on terrorism. That is a great stretch, and I do not think that dog will hunt.
We are talking about a small reduction of 3.5 percent in a $7.7 billion budget for office budgets. Let me just give you an example of what we are talking about.
There is $4.3 billion for rental space, $277 million in current funding in this budget. Maybe a little bit of that could be deferred. There is $2 billion for building operations, $119 million, 6 percent more than cut funding. That is common sense.
Let us give first priority to our housing.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov/
