Public Statements
Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2007
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 6, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to bring your attention to a technology that will revolutionize our electricity resources. This Congress has recognized that energy challenges need to be explored through alternative, renewable and clean energy sources to enable a diverse national energy resource plan. However, the rhetoric of supporting alternate fuels hasn't been met with the policies enacted by the House of Representatives. The Energy and Water Appropriations Act of Fiscal Year 2007 fails to recognize an area of energy exploration that other nations are well-ahead of us in tapping--ocean wave energy.
There is an increasing need for reliable, non-polluting sources of economic electrical power throughout the world. The Electrical Power Research Institute, EPRI, has carried out a comprehensive economic study of wave generation and has concluded that the economics of wave generation are at least as favorable as for wind generation, EPRI study shows that tidal is as favorable as wind and that wave would be as favorable if the same resources for wind had been invested which has now achieved economic competitiveness and is undergoing extensive worldwide growth.
It is estimated that if 0.2 percent of the oceans' untapped energy could be harnessed, it could provide power sufficient for the entire world.
Wave Energy has several advantages over other forms of renewable energy such as wind and solar including higher energy densities, enabling devices to extract more power from a smaller volume at much lower costs (e.g., the density of water is about 1000 times that of air).
The availability of wave energy is in the 80-90 percent range, whereas wind availability is in the 30-45 percent range depending on location. Wave energy is also more predictable, with energy forecast times of greater than 10 hours, thus enabling more straightforward and reliable integration into the electric utility grid to provide reliable power.
Unfortunately, these developments have once again been ignored by Congress. While the FY 07 Energy and Water appropriations bill provides just over $24 billion for the Department of Energy, it fails to provide any funding for the ocean energy program.
Ocean wave energy extraction technology is currently in the preliminary stages of development, at the same stage that wind turbines were approximately 15-20 years ago. Several technologies are being developed, and yet no clear superior engineering solution has been established. I urge my fellow colleagues to understand to recognize any opportunity to support this new endeavor and make the United States a leader in tapping into this alternative, renewable energy source.
I am very pleased that this bill fully funds the American Competitiveness Initiative which would strengthen basic research by increasing funding for the DOE Office of Science, for a total of $4 billion. In addition, the bill supports the Advance Energy initiative by increasing funding for a variety of clean energy technologies, including biomass, hydrogen, solar, wind and clean coal. However, again, it includes no funding or support for ocean wave energy.
The new Energy Policy Act of 2005 adopted into law recognized for the first time the value of wave power to the US economy. Ocean energy research and development was authorized by this Congress. It should be supported and funded by this Congress.
http://thomas.loc.gov
