Public Statements
Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 17, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


FOREST EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND RESEARCH ACT
Mr. INSLEE. Madam Chairman, the people of the State of Washington deserve decisions about the Eagle Gap Wilderness area to be made based on science and public input, not the whims of President George Bush.
Why do we rush to give this President, the President with the worst environmental record in American history, more discretion, more leeway, less science, less public input? That is a bit like giving Bonnie and Clyde a relaxation of the rules against bank robbery.
There is no reason, given the record of this administration, to trust these administration policies with our national forests. But this bill will give a blank check to the whims of the political decisionmakers in the White House, not the foresters on the ground.
This, in fact, strips, strips us of the requirement that we have a site-specific decision to go out and look at these properties. Now I will tell you how bad it is. I will tell you how George Bush's administration has not respected science. When Mr. Donato, a researcher at Oregon State University, reported his paper in a well-respected journal, Science Magazine, a peer-reviewed journal, do you know what happened? Do you know what his BLM did? They canceled his contract.
That is how the Bush administration treats science. They cancel your contract if you come out with science, with an answer that is not apparently approved by Carl Rove and his political minions.
Madam Chairman, we should not be on this floor giving George Bush more authority to make more bad decisions about the national forests. Reject this bill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, this amendment, simply put, will fix a problem with this legislation that otherwise would allow a giant loophole in our rule that now we have been fighting to maintain for some period of time to protect our roadless areas in our national forests. These roadless areas are the most pristine areas of the national forests. We have made a decision, 96 percent of Americans who have commented on the roadless areas have concluded that they want these areas managed for the clean water they provide, the recreation they provide, the aesthetics they provide rather than timber harvest through log road building.
My amendment would essentially say that we are not going to tax, we are not going to subsidize log road building anymore in these roadless areas. There are three reasons we need to do this, and they are two fiscal and one environmental. I will address first the two fiscal reasons we need to adopt this amendment.
First, this Chamber went on record in an amendment some time ago that said we are going to stop subsidizing roads with taxpayer dollars. And we essentially are going to stop, by this amendment, stop subsidizing logging roads in some of our steeper areas. These roadless areas are commonly found in our steeper, higher elevations. They are at the tops of our mountains, and they are the most expensive places to build logging roads. They are the places where the taxpayers get soaked the most in our subsidization programs.
We would say essentially that you cannot use this legislation, in our amendment, to continue that log road-building program which ends up putting the tab on the American taxpayer. This is a fiscal reason.
The second fiscal reason is it makes no sense now, it makes no sense to make a misprioritization from, instead of doing the $10 billion of backlog we already have to repair and maintain our existing mileage, enough to, I think it is 336,000 miles of existing roads, with a $10 billion backlog already. Uncle Sam already has a $10 billion commitment to get those roads and keep them from washing out. Eighty percent of these roads are not even fit. You cannot even drive your car on them.
Instead of letting people get recreational value, to drive and go up to go hunting and go fishing and take your kids on a picnic by the creek, 80 percent of these roads are falling apart. Instead of taking care of their interests, this bill would subsidize the logging industry to go in and log as a priority. Now, they have tried to fix this problem, saying these will be temporary roads. There is no such thing as a temporary road. We have 60,000 miles of roads that should have been decommissioned already but aren't.
So there are two sound fiscal reasons to adopt this amendment, but the third is an environmental reason. We depend on these roadless areas, the Kettle River Range in Washington, the Eagle Cap roadless area in Washington, we depend on them for clean water. We depend on them for habitat. And the fact of the matter is when you build a road into a roadless area, you double the chance of fire. And that, as a science, is well proven. You may get some timber out, but you double the chance of fire, and you increase areas of road that can erode and silt our streams.
So two fiscal reasons and one environmental reason that commends this.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, there are two problems. One, although I respect the drafters of this bill, the bill does not respect the clearly expressed sentiment of the American people, because 96 percent of the American people said don't build roads; temporary, permanent, transitory, big, small, little. Ninety-six percent of the Americans who expressed their opinion on this issue said don't do what this bill does, which allows building roads in these designated roadless areas.
This ignores the clearly expressed intention of the people, and that ought to be enough in itself to endorse this particular amendment.
Now, I come back to when you look at these roadless areas, they have value that is not in this accounting, which is to keep the silt out of our streams. I respect that we might put a line in a book somewhere that will be over in the Library of Congress that says, presto change-o, these are all going to be ``temporary.'' There is also a line in a book over in the Library of Congress that says 60,000 miles that have been out there for decades are ``temporary.'' In real life, this guts roadless area rules. We need this amendment if this bill is going to pass.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, it is difficult to understand how anyone would oppose an amendment that simply says the administration should have what is not too onerous a burden, to certify that under the best available science this is not going to degrade that which we are trying to achieve, which is forest regeneration and suppression of fire. Is that asking too much of the Bush administration, to simply say if you are going to have a program, that you will tell the American people that it won't make things worse? We don't think that is asking too much.
And there is a point during this debate I think needs to be made, and that is that when there is a fire, it is a human instinct to get in there and want to fix things. We are fixers. We believe that we are the smarter species on the planet.
But if you look at the beautiful forests we have, if you look at the Eagle CAP wilderness, the Kettle River range in Washington State, you look at our national forests and you look at those forests, those forests are there without the intervention of President George Bush. They have evolved over decades and centuries and eons, and they are beautiful and they are healthy and they give us picnics for our kids, fishing and hunting for our cousins and our families, and clean water to drink, without the administration of George Bush going in with their chain saws and deciding what they decide to cut.
Now, given that historical fact that these forests have done very, very well without us for tens of thousands of years, we don't think it is too much to ask that before President Bush gets out his chain saw, that he is required to certify, in the best available science, this won't make things worse.
Now I understand why they object to it, because they object to the science and the Donato study in the Science magazine from Oregon State University, they objected to it. They didn't like it. It didn't fit their political preconceptions so they put it on ice, put it on review, canceled it. Use whatever language you want.
We are saying that the science needs to be asked to be listened to, just like the American people should be. This is a commonsense amendment. I commend Mr. Udall.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
