Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of H.R. 4200, Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 17, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4200, FOREST EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND RESEARCH ACT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, here we go again. First, we had the clean skies bill, that got more pollution; then we had the deficit reduction bill, and we had more deficit; now we have the forest recovery bill, which assures that we will be using less science and less common sense by the American people to make decisions of where and how to do forest recovery plans.
This has largely been a red-herring debate to date. This is not a question whether we are going to have forest recovery plans and places to replant and places to harvest deadwood. What it is a debate about is where we do these recovery plans and how we do these recovery plans. This bill, as currently structured, guarantees two things: We will at times do them in the wrong place and we will at times do them in the wrong way.
It does that by a repeated continuation of the terrible habit this Congress has gotten into, which is to repeal our environmental protection laws. And that is why every single environmental group dedicated to the preservation of our forests is very strongly opposed to this bill.
Now, how is it going to be the wrong place and the wrong way? First, it will assure these are sometimes done in the wrong way by gutting the insistence that we use science. Right now, existing rules require bureaucracies to use science when they make decisions; to not go by some cookie-cutter approach that some bureaucrat in Washington sets out and says you can do this, that, and the other all across the Rocky Mountains, without ever stepping foot in the area where they are going to do this harvesting and replanting. Existing law requires that.
This law, through a quite clever shell game, guts that requirement that Americans will use science when these decisions are made. What it does is it essentially says that NEPA requirements, the National Environmental Protection Act requirements, to use science when we make these decisions where to cut, which trees to cut, and how to replant. And it does that on page 24, in a very clever way.
It doesn't say we gut NEPA. It doesn't say we repeal the National Environmental Protection Act. What it says, and I quote, ``Satisfaction of NEPA requirements. The following activities are deemed to satisfy the requirements of section 102 of the National Environmental Policy Act.'' What they say is, what you do here just wipes away the requirements of NEPA because we deem it complied with.
We care about our forests in Washington State. The Kettle roadless area in eastern Washington, the Eagle Cap roadless area in western Washington. We want to insist that our Federal agencies use science. This bill removes one of the fundamental pillars of making these decisions. It removes science. So it does something to make sure that we do something the wrong way.
But it also does something in the wrong place, and I will get to that when my amendment comes to preserve the roadless areas of our forests.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
