Public Statements
Continued Violation of Americans' Privacy by Illegal Spying Cannot Be Tolerated
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 11, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


CONTINUED VIOLATION OF AMERICANS' PRIVACY BY ILLEGAL SPYING CANNOT BE TOLERATED -- (House of Representatives - May 11, 2006)
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a previous order of the House, the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, the continued violation of Americans' privacy by illegal spying cannot be tolerated. Today we found that this administration is building a database of millions of Americans' phone calls to know who we called and who called us. This is a privacy right that needs to be protected and respected, and we have now seen multiple violations of this principle where illegal spying has occurred.
The U.S. Congress must hold hearings. It must stop illegal spying. I will be offering an amendment on the defense appropriations bill to assure that no taxpayer money can be used for illegal spying to violate the privacy rights of Americans.
The excuse we may hear from the administration is that, no, these conversations may not be taped. But who Americans called is a privacy right and is protected by the law, and who calls us is a privacy right and it is protected by the law. It is protected by section 222 of the Communications Act, it is protected by the fourth amendment to the United States Constitution, and it is protected by the common sense of the American people that we ought to protect our privacy and democracy at the same time we are protecting our security. And both can be protected.
The fact of the matter is that the FISA law builds in the ability of the Federal Government to in fact crack down on terrorism, something we all want to do. We want to have an aggressive program of electronic eavesdropping on al Qaeda and other terrorists, but we want to make sure that that is done within the law on the simple proposition that when the Federal Government does electronic eavesdropping, there is another set of eyes overseeing that program: our judges, our judicial system.
What the law demands and Americans demand and the Constitution demands is that there is a review through the warrant process so that a warrant is obtained when this eavesdropping occurs. And if there is not time for that, under the FISA law, warrants can be obtained 72 hours thereafter retroactively.
So what we are saying, and I think the broad swath of the millions of Americans who have to know tonight, is that somewhere in this country there is a database sitting with your records that belong to you that is subject to your privacy that has now been violated by the Federal Government, without any review whatsoever by a judge and without review whatsoever and oversight of the United States Congress. That is wrong, and it has simply got to stop.
The U.S. Congress has an obligation. It is an obligation to stand up to an administration that refuses to abide by the law. This is a precious thing, democracy; and democracy is most precious when it is threatened. When we are currently involved in a war, it is most important to rise to the protection of our privacy.
We have been involved in these fights for our privacy now for some period of time. We have fought to protect the private records of our cell phone records from being sold to telemarketers; we have fought to prevent our tax records being sold to other people who will market to us; and now we need to fight to make sure there is a review and a warrant given before, or at least after, our phone records are put into some master database with the privacy of millions of Americans violated.
The reason we found out about this today is that the journalists have reported on this. Unfortunately, the administration has not been forthcoming to tell the U.S. Congress what they have been doing; and the U.S. Congress, the folks elected by people from 435 districts in 50 States, ought to have access to this information so that there can be oversight. There is not a review of this.
In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, the U.S. Congress needs to stand up and be counted, stand up and be counted for the privacy rights of America, to stop the violation of privacy that we have in our phone records. Who we called and who called us is a private matter. It ought to be protected, and we are going to ensure that it is.
http://thomas.loc.gov
