Public Statements
Letter to USDA Forest Service Chief Dale Bosworth
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 8, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Letter to USDA Forest Service Chief Dale Bosworth
May 8, 2006
Chief Dale Bosworth
USDA Forest Service
1400 Independence Avenue SW
Washington, D.C. 20250-0003
Dear Chief Bosworth,
We are writing in response to the Notice of Intent (NOI) issued in the Federal Register on March 28, 2006 regarding the Tongass National Forest Land Management Plan (Tongass Plan). We support your agency's decision to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) which responds to the failures of the current Tongass Plan as identified by the 9th Circuit U.S. Federal Court of Appeals.
We look forward to reviewing the Tongass EIS when it is released. We anticipate a presentation of a broad range of alternatives - based on accurate economic analysis and sound science - which seek to conserve the biological diversity and ecological integrity of the temperate rainforest in southeastern Alaska as well as balance the multiple uses of the forest.
In particular, we urge you to use this opportunity to develop a balanced plan which thoroughly and accurately reflects economic trends in our country's largest national forest. According to a 2005 economic report from the Forest Service, recreation and tourism is currently and will continue to be of "more importance to the economic vitality of the region" than timber. A successful new Tongass Plan must therefore serve the needs not just of the timber industry, but of the many stakeholders and users of the forest.
We believe the Forest Service's Tongass Plan revision must address the overwhelming national public support for protecting roadless areas and end the unsustainable practice of logging inventoried roadless areas at a high cost to native flora and fauna, Southeast Alaska communities, and U.S. taxpayers.
The Tongass is the crown jewel of our country's National Forest System - a remote coastal temperate rainforest, home to wildlife and fish populations unparalleled anywhere else on the planet. It is critical that the Forest Service develop a plan which conservatively manages the Tongass National Forest in recognition of its value as the largest intact coastal temperate rainforest in the world.
We look forward to engaging cooperatively with the Forest Service as it crafts the new Tongass Plan.
Thank you for your consideration. Please accept these as official comments on the NOI to prepare a Tongass National Forest Plan amendment environmental impact statement.
Sincerely,
Rosa DeLauro Rob Andrews
Zoe Lofgren Carolyn McCarthy
Ed Case Lloyd Doggett
Anna Eschoo Robert Wexler
Tim Ryan Pete Stark
Mark Udall Jim Gerlach
Joseph Crowley Stephen Lynch
Cynthia McKinney Adam Schiff
Mike Doyle Jay Inslee
Frank Pallone Allyson Schwartz
Jim McGovern Steve Israel
Michael Michoud Shelley Berkley
Jim Marshall John Larson
Rush Holt Tammy Baldwin
Betty McCollum Brad Sherman
Ellen Tauscher Jim McDermott
John Olver Anthony Weiner
Christopher Shays Sam Farr
Rham Emanuel Ron Kind
Chris Van Hollen Raul Grijalva
Ben Chandler Eddie Bernice Johnson
Michael Fitzpatrick Julia Carson
Grace Napolitano Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick
Gregory Meeks Michael Honda
Barbara Lee Dale Kildee
Ed Markey Peter DeFazio
Eliot Engel David Price
Rick Boucher George Miller
Donald Payne Michael McNulty
Lane Evans Jose Serrano
Jim Moran Nydia Velazquez
Gary Ackerman Barney Frank
Lynn Woolsey Sander Levin
Steve Rothman Major Owens
Nita Lowey Carolyn Maloney
Jane Harman Tom Lantos
Dennis Kucinich Maurice Hinchey
Corrine Brown Earl Blumenauer
Louise Slaughter Sheila Jackson Lee
http://www.house.gov/delauro/press/2006/May/tongass_letter_5_8_06.html
