Public Statements
National Uniformity for Food Act of 2005
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 8, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


NATIONAL UNIFORMITY FOR FOOD ACT OF 2005 -- (House of Representatives - March 08, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I would like to be certain that I understand the requirement in the bill that State food safety laws be identical to the ten sections of Federal law that are listed in section 2(a)(6) of the bill. Am I correct that each of these ten sections provides a basis for determining whether food is adulterated?
Mr. BARTON of Texas. Reclaiming my time, Mr. Chairman. The gentleman is correct. Provisions of State law that establish standards for determining when a food is adulterated, that are the State counterparts to those ten listed sections of Federal law, will need to be identical to the Federal law.
Mr. INSLEE. If the gentleman will continue to yield. ``Identical'' in this context does not mean that every word has to be exactly the same, does it?
Mr. BARTON of Texas. No. ``Identical'' is defined to mean that minor differences in wording are acceptable so long as they do not alter the underlying meaning of the provision. So, for example, Federal law provides that a food is adulterated ``if it contains any added poisonous or deleterious substance which may render the food injurious to health.'' This is often referred to as the basic adulteration provision of Federal law. State law that addresses the basic adulteration requirement will need to be the same as that provision of Federal law.
Mr. INSLEE. If a State's basic adulteration law is identical to the Federal adulteration law, can a State apply that law as it determines to be proper?
Mr. BARTON of Texas. If the FDA has not established a tolerance or limit for a particular poisonous or deleterious substance in food, the State is free to make its own determination of what quantity of that substance should be held to adulterate the food. If, however, there is an FDA established tolerance or limit, the State would then need to follow the tolerance or limit in its enforcement of State law. If FDA has finally determined that there should not be a tolerance or limit, then in that instance also the State would need to follow the Federal policy.
Mr. INSLEE. I thank the gentleman for this explanation, and I have a further inquiry.
I understand that if a State law is identical to the Federal, that State regulators can apply State law to particular circumstances where FDA has not.
Suppose a State enacts a law that applies to State's basic adulteration requirement to a particular substance or circumstance. So the law would say, for example, that the State has determined that any food that contains more than X amount of Y poisonous or deleterious substance adulterates the food within the meaning of that State's food adulteration law, would that be permissible?
Mr. BARTON of Texas. Yes. If the State's food adulteration provisions are identical to the listed Federal provisions and there is no Federal tolerance or limit, the State may apply its law either by regulatory action or State legislative enactment. All that the bill requires is that the State apply the same standard for adulteration that is found in Federal law. It does not matter whether the State does that administratively or by legislation.
Mr. INSLEE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for those clarifications.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
