Public Statements
Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2006 Through 2009
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Dec. 17, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE APPROPRIATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2006 THROUGH 2009 -- (House of Representatives - December 17, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, the worst thing a parent can endure is the loss of a child. And it is important for me, in the context of this bill, to share the story of Lane and Patti Judson, who lost their daughter, Crystal, to domestic violence and have turned their sadness into a will to help other families.
Crystal was murdered by her husband, who was chief of police in Tacoma, Washington, at the time. We all know what obstacles domestic violence victims face. But imagine the choices a victim faces when their abuser is in the very profession that is charged to protect her.
Congress today took steps to address these circumstances and, for the first time in the country's history, included a grant program in the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act to help law enforcement agencies develop procedures for dealing with domestic crimes committed by their own employees as well as train special advocates to assist victims like Crystal and her family. Women who have been victims of domestic violence should not have to stand alone, and after today, they will not have to.
I thank the Judiciary Committee chair and ranking member; my colleagues from Washington; advocacy groups; and, most importantly, Lane and Patti Judson for making this program a reality. Unfortunately, domestic violence continues to be in all of our communities today. And the Judsons' courage and conviction remind all of us that we have more work to do toward finding new solutions to protect families across our Nation. From a family tragedy, the Judsons have forged a strong measure to protect families across the Nation. We honor their diligence and the life of Crystal Judson Brame.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
