Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of H.Res. 612, Victory in Iraq Resolution
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Dec. 16, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. RES. 612, VICTORY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - December 16, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, the odds of success in Iraq are not enhanced by Congress continuing to act as a rubber stamp for President Bush. We need a change in strategic vision in Iraq.
This resolution says that setting a timetable somehow is a Communist plot, but, in fact, the President himself set timetables in Iraq when he set timetables to have transitional elections in Iraq. He set timetables for elections because it focused the Iraqis to demand performance, and that is what we should do in setting a timetable to transition to Iraqis true sovereignty for three reasons.
Reason number one, we should no longer provide a crutch for an indefinite period of time to the Iraqi politicians. We need to focus their minds on making the compromises that are necessary if a real government is going to be followed. We cannot fall into the trap of enabling Iraqi politicians to continue their bickering. They need a solution.
Number two, people say a timetable will encourage more violence. Let me ask you this: If there is a young unemployed man who is angry about foreign troops marching on his neighborhood, what do you think will make him more angry and more likely to plant an IED, the fact that we tell him we are going to leave in a year or so, or tell him we are going to stay there as long as George Bush says so? We need to tell them that we are going to come home.
The third reason we ought to think about this is that in our briefings we have received, we have been told that the Iraqi military will be fully trained by next December 2006, and it is realistic, it is commonsense, it is a measure to focus the Iraqi politicians on the necessity of seeking compromise, to say that we should begin transitioning next year and substantially conclude by December 2006.
During that time I have one message for the administration. They need to do a better job arming the Iraqi military forces. They need radios, they need Humvees, they need logistics. We cannot allow that force to fall apart. We need to defeat this resolution.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
