Public Statements
American Response to Global Warming Inadequate
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Dec. 16, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


AMERICAN RESPONSE TO GLOBAL WARMING INADEQUATE -- (House of Representatives - December 16, 2005)
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Schwarz of Michigan). Under the Speaker's announced policy of January 4, 2005, the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) is recognized until midnight as the designee of the minority leader.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, in the last week there has been a collection of relatively extraordinary events in the future of not only our country, but the entire planet, when it comes to our ability to maintain a climate to which we have been accustomed, and in fact that climate is now threatened by global warming, and during the last week some extraordinary things have happened that demand comment here in the House.
I have come here tonight to suggest that the U.S. Congress needs to act with vigor and vision to lead the world in dealing with global warming. What precipitates my comments is a collection of scientific information that has become available to the world in the last week, together with the recently concluded conclave of world leaders in Montreal, Canada, that just concluded without meaningful participation by the executive branch of the United States, which I think is most disappointing to my constituents and I think much of America.
So what I want to do tonight is address some of the new science that has come forward just in the last week about global warming and contrast that with the abject failure, unfortunately, of the executive branch of the United States to fulfill the leadership role of the United States, which has historically been on a bipartisan basis as the technological leader of the world, which this chief executive has abdicated in refusing to lead the world to a resolution of the problem of global warming.
If I can first just briefly summarize some of the things that have happened in the last week regarding global warming.
