Public Statements
30-Something Working Group
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Nov. 1, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - November 01, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I suppose we should feel ourselves fortunate that the administration, after the failures in Katrina, did not out some other intelligence agent, one of their critics. So I do not know if they have learned their lesson or not. I should not be facetious about such an important thing.
Let me ask a question on this. The gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Ryan) points out accurately, imagine the incredible high level of energy that the highest level of government in the United States, what they were focused on when the truth came out that they told something untrue about the uranium yellow cake in the State of the Union. What did they do? Instead of saying, let us get to the bottom of how this happened so it does not happen again, the first thing they did is say we are going to attack our critics and we are going to attack them by outing the wife of one of the critics. We are going, as you indicated, to spend this enormous amount of energy.
Karl Rove, Chief of Staff to the President of the United States, is it the most important thing he can do is try to destroy the credibility of Joe Wilson who wrote what turned out to be a true article for the New York Times? Is it the best use of time for the Chief of Staff for the Vice President of the United States to organize this sophisticated campaign to smear Mr. Wilson?
Why was it they were willing to make this such a high-priority issue? I think there is a clear answer to that.
The reason that they were so concerned about this is that they realized that their case for war on Iraq was built on this sort of one-legged stool of the mushroom cloud. What they figured out was that the vision, the image of the mushroom cloud could scare
Americans so badly that they could win the right to go to this war. Once that was gone, their justification for the war was gone. It was imperiled once the truth came out, because the only thing they had was this uranium yellow cake which was shown to be a fraud.
How do I know it was a fraud? It was not Mr. Wilson. By the way, some people have said Mr. Wilson's report did not show that; it was inaccurate. Well, hogwash. The President of the United States retracted the 16 words from his State of the Union speech once Mr. Wilson blew the whistle. They would not have retracted it unless it was wrong, and it was wrong, and they finally retracted it, but then they went on to smear Wilson.
I want to make a couple of comments about Joe Wilson, and the reason I do so is he has made clear it is not about Joe Wilson. This issue, he is not the important element here. It is the security of the American people and preventing the deterioration of our security service. That is the important thing.
But this administration you would think they would learn to quit attacking their critics after this has caused all this damage to the administration, but, no, they still have their hound dogs out there attacking Joe Wilson, still trying to damage his credibility and say he is the lowest form of life on the planet.
I want to say two things about this guy, and I got to know him a little bit about this. He came out and spoke in Seattle about the Iraq situation.
During the first Iraq War, he was our last foreign service agent out of Baghdad. The very last representative of the United States who left Iraq was Joe Wilson. I tell you two little stories about him, what kind of guy he is.
I ran into a Foreign Service worker by accident on a bus heading to an airplane about 3 months ago who told me that, in the weeks leading up to the first Persian Gulf War, she had a family who came and had some children who were in possession of a stepfather in Mosul. She called Joe Wilson and said, can you help me make sure these kids are okay? She said, I know I am asking you a lot because right now the war could break out at any moment. There is chaos on the roads. Security forces were already in Iraq. Joe Wilson personally made sure that kid was okay at risk to his own life, and he did not tell me that story. I just ran into this Foreign Service worker who told me about it.
The second thing, when Joe Wilson called all the Americans in Baghdad just in the few days before the bombings started and said, I want to try to get you out of the country, Saddam Hussein told Joe Wilson, I will kill anybody who tries to get an American out of here. He did not say so. Obviously, he wanted to maybe hold them hostage. That is a direct statement to you. You better leave those people here. Joe Wilson got those people into a building in Iraq, and it was not widely reported, but put a noose around his neck physically and said, Saddam Hussein, you can come get me because I am taking my people home. He took every single American home. Not a single American was lost to the depravations to that madman thug Saddam Hussein.
I have to tell you I have some respect for Joe Wilson. He stood up to Saddam Hussein, and he stood up to Karl Rove, and I think it took some degree of courage to do both. It was a despicable act of Karl Rove, or whoever is responsible for this, to go after him, after he stood up for America against Saddam Hussein, to destroy the career of his wife and put in danger other security agents of this country.
Karl Rove messed with the wrong guy when he took on Joe Wilson, and I think that is something Americans ought to know.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Just a couple of comments, Mr. Speaker. I want to applaud our Republican colleagues. I am told now there are a couple of Republicans in the other Chamber who are willing to see to it that the American people get this report from the Senate committee about the White House involvement and this misinformation. I think that is very important, and I applaud our Republicans in the Chamber who are standing up to do that.
But I want to mention why that is so very important. The gentlewoman from Florida talked about the fact that Valerie Plame was, in fact, an undercover agent; but I think it is really important to realize what she was working on. Her specialty was trying to suppress weapons of mass destruction. That was her specialty in the CIA. What a great irony of it that here is a woman who dedicated her professional life to try to suppress the expansion of weapons of mass destruction, and yet she gets attacked and her career destroyed because the administration used bogus information in their State of the Union to assert there was a weapon of mass destruction when the evidence itself showed there was not. And I think her career ought to be respected.
And, by the way, I mentioned this admiral I was talking to today. We talked about the need for spies for the intelligence agency. I was not talking about this specific situation. But this bottom line is about the security interest of the United States, and both Republicans and Democrats ought to care about that, and both Republicans and Democrats ought to be behind getting to the bottom of this. That has not happened and it ought to.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
