Public Statements
Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act of 2005 (1)
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 29, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


THREATENED AND ENDANGERED SPECIES RECOVERY ACT OF 2005 -- (House of Representatives - September 29, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I think it is appropriate to refer to the first Endangered Species Act in Genesis. ``Bring out every kind of living creature that is with you, the birds, the animals, and all the creatures that move along the ground, so that they can multiply on the earth and be fruitful and increase in number upon it.''
Are we acting in the spirit of Noah when we purport to vote, some may vote, for a bill that would prevent protecting the bald eagle from pesticides, when DDT almost removed it from the treasure-trove of American icons? Are we acting in the spirit of Genesis? I think Americans think we are not. When we act to remove any meaningful enforcement provisions to protect the habitat, are we acting in the spirit of Genesis? Americans think not.
What is a fish without a river? What is a bird without a tree to nest in? What is an Endangered Species Act without any enforcement mechanism to ensure their habitat is protected? It is nothing. This is not a modernization of the Act, this is a euthanization of the Act, and I will tell you why.
The underlying bill says that we are going to have these maps of habitat that will be developed, and that is a wonderful thing. And under the bill, as written, the maps will hang on the walls of these agencies in beautiful pink and blue, and the Cub Scouts and the Girl Scout Troops can come through and look at the beautiful maps. But it has one missing thing. If we pass this underlying bill, we would have removed any single legal enforcement mechanism that those maps had whatsoever. The bipartisan amendment will say that those maps have some degree of teeth.
This underlying bill is a chimera. It is a total falsehood to say it does the first thing for habitat because there is no enforcement mechanism for those maps.
I want to tell my colleagues of a woman who was in my office the other day. She wants habitat protection so she can see those salmon. And just to make sure no one thinks this is just some esoteric thing, her name is Gail and she lives in Miller Bay in Washington State, Kitsap County. She told me about the thrill of seeing the salmon going up the stream on Miller Bay, and they do that because we have an enforceable mechanism to protect habitat. She knows that if we pass this bill, we will remove the ability to protect the streams. We remove the enforcements mechanisms.
Mr. Chairman, that is why we need to do this substitute, which has a better way of identifying habitat in the recovery process so we do not have this frustration with the landowners, so we do not waste 3 years just bothering landowners and not recovering species, but we have a mechanism to get this job done.
I want to reiterate what the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Dicks) suggested. To suggest that an Act that saves 99 percent of the species from extinction is a failure is not a way to keep score. If you want to know how to do more, let us make sure that the executive branch enforces this law. Clinton listed 500. The first Bush listed 250. This administration has done zero without a court order.
Let us pass the substitute bill and reject this underlying bill. Honor creatures, honor the taxpayer, honor yourself.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
