Public Statements
Violence Against Women Act
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 29, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT -- (Extensions of Remarks - September 29, 2005)
SPEECH OF
HON. JAY INSLEE
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2005
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, the House has voted to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), a historic measure first passed in 1994. It marked when our country finally recognized that domestic violence is not a private family matter, but a national problem that requires a national response. Since VAWA passed, victims of domestic violence have more options to leave abusive relationships, local communities have developed critical programs to assist victims, and our criminal justice system has become better trained in prosecuting these unique crimes.
However, it is always the incident that happens in your backyard that will highlight the scope of a problem, such as domestic violence. In 2003, the state of Washington State became the focus of a national tragedy. Many have read in the papers the heartbreaking story of how, on April 26, 2003, Crystal Brame was shot in a grocery store parking lot by her husband, David Brame, chief of police for the city of Tacoma. Crystal Brame died one week later, and David Brame committed suicide at the scene.
In response to this tragedy, people in the state of Washington swiftly formed a statewide task force of domestic violence, law enforcement, and criminal justice system experts to determine the best practices for law enforcement agencies, focusing on prevention, training, enforcement, and response. Crystal's death and the state's response, illustrated that despite the progress since VAWA passed in 1994, tragedies of domestic violence live in our communities today, and that we must continue to work towards new solutions.
I think we can do a better job helping people like Crystal, whose abuser happened to be in a profession that responds to crimes of domestic violence. I have hopes that my colleagues will help put a stop to such tragedies and work with Mr. Norm Dicks, Mr. Adam Smith, and Mr. Dave Reichert, and me to commission a study by the Department of Justice to learn more about such incidences and the best response to officer-involved domestic violence. Ending domestic violence is an ongoing effort, and I have seen great improvements to this end. I would like to see an even stronger commitment so that other communities can prevent tragedies--like that of Crystal Brame from happening in their backyard.
http://thomas.loc.gov
