Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of Motions to Suspend the Rules
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 8, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO SUSPEND THE RULES -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, this Labor Day weekend I flew from Seattle to Houston to join thousands of Texans to volunteer in the Astrodome to help these evacuees, and there I met an incredible family with such courage and grace, trying to keep their family together on the floor of the Astrodome.
A woman named Penny told me that her mother named Alice was trapped at a specific address on Bell Street in New Orleans, and I pitched in to try to help to get her rescued. For 3 days, the most powerful Nation in the world was incapable of going to a specific address on Bell Street and rescuing this 80-year-old lady named Alice.
While that was going on, a lot of the lower level FEMA people were working hard to effectuate that, but they were handicapped by a lack of senior leadership, senior leadership who failed to anticipate the breaching of the levees; senior leadership who failed to call for help, who waited 5 hours to call for help after landfall of the hurricane; senior leadership that allowed FEMA's job to protect us from hurricanes to be totally overwhelmed by the responsibility regarding terrorism.
This senior leadership led me to conclude, and millions of Americans to conclude, that we cannot have confidence in senior leadership at FEMA today. This is not a matter of finger-pointing or accountability. It is a matter of whether we have confidence in dealing with the next hurricane that is getting ready in the Atlantic Ocean right now. This is the middle. I heard one person say this is the third inning of a nine inning game of the hurricane season. We have to get this problem fixed now.
After the debacle at Pearl Harbor, America did not wait until the end of World War II to fix the problem that led us to be caught with our pants down at Pearl Harbor with such fatality, and we have suffered probably more fatalities here than we did at Pearl Harbor.
We need, on a bipartisan basis, to fix this problem now; and we need to help the President do that because of his attitude of saying, Brownie, you did a great job, it just will not wash with the American people. It is a shame that this rule will not allow Americans to get what they deserve, a working FEMA.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
