Public Statements
Help Efficient, Accessible, Low-Cost, Timely Healthcare (HEALTH) Act of 2005
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 28, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


HELP EFFICIENT, ACCESSIBLE, LOW-COST, TIMELY HEALTHCARE (HEALTH) ACT OF 2005 -- (House of Representatives - July 28, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, there are better ways to solve this problem than to strip Americans of the right to trial by jury. Fundamentally, this bill takes the right of trial by jury of your peers away from Americans and gives that authority to politicians who have never heard any of the evidence.
Take this case about a 4-year-old girl I know from Yakima, Washington, named Nichole. Several years ago, she went in with a urinary tract problem. The doctors put in a foley catheter. When you do that, there is a balloon they put in your bladder that is inflated to hold the catheter. This was traumatic to this 4-year-old girl. When they went to deflate the catheter, it would not deflate. So they tried to deflate it by sticking a steel wire up through her urethra to try to puncture the balloon so they could pull the catheter out. They tried it many times. This was traumatic to this young girl. It did not work.
So they finally had to inject a solvent up her urethra to dissolve the rubber and it dissolved the rubber and it also dissolved part of her bladder and severely burned her bladder because of the malfunction of a negligently designed and manufactured foley catheter.
Now, who is better to make a decision for that 4-year-old girl about what is justice? Teachers, truck drivers, insurance salesmen sitting in a jury who have heard the evidence and who have looked at Nichole and understand the future dysfunction she may have and the trauma she had, or 435 politicians who are clueless about that specific case?
Where is the wisdom from the Creator that these politicians are vested in to tell us what Nichole went through? Nobody knows except maybe someone who was at that trial.
This is moving authority from jurors, citizens, the people who are sitting up in the gallery right here and taking it away from you and putting it in the pockets, first of Members of Congress, through the lobbyists for the drug companies and the medical companies. And by the way you, know what happened because of Nichole's case? That company cleaned up its act, and it started a new quality-control mechanism so that we will not have future Nicholes, because we had a medical negligence system that protected the Nicholes of this world.
There is a problem. This is not the best way to solve it. Respect America, democracy, and our jurors.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
