Public Statements
Iraq Watch
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 19, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


IRAQ WATCH -- (House of Representatives - July 19, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Massachusetts. An issue I would like to address tonight is perhaps one of the most important ones. Of course, we all share the gentleman's admiration for our troops. I heard of a young man from Ohio who will be going back in a month or so for his fourth tour of duty in Iraq, so not only our admiration for our personnel there, but their whole families who are contributing to this effort, and it has been very, very difficult for them as well.
But I want to talk about how we can eventually be in a position to be able to bring our sons and daughters home, and that involves fulfilling an activity that might seem obvious to anyone who has thought about this, but, unfortunately, has not been fulfilled by the administration, and that is that we need to replace American troops with Iraqis.
We need to get our sons and daughters home and their responsibility for the security of Iraq needs to be assumed by Iraqis who will stand up and toe the line for their countries. And until that happens, we are going to continue to see the enormous losses that are being suffered by the Iraqis and our sons and daughters now.
And the reason I want to address this, and perhaps it seems obvious when I say that, but I wanted to share tonight the abject failure of the administration to do the very obvious things that need to be done to train the Iraqi security forces. It is obvious in this country that we need larger number of troops in the security forces now and in the future to allow the withdrawal of American troops. But we have found after doing an examination of what the civilian planners, and this is not a criticism of the military personnel because frankly it is the civilian personnel, from the Secretary of Defense up through the President, who have dropped the ball unfortunately, and what is required to train these Iraqi troops.
Four months ago an assessment showed that we had less than 40 percent of the training personnel that was anticipated to be in Iraq 6 months after the collapse of the Iraqi Army, less than half of the training personnel were there several months ago. And the result has been a spectacular failure to train and equip and stand up an Iraqi Army.
I remember the first time I ever heard the term stand up. It was from Secretary Rumsfeld. And he said we are going to stand up the Iraqi Army. This is before the war started. This army cannot get on its knees in Iraq right now.
Now, we have been told by the administration that there are 170,000 troops in Iraq. Well, there are 170,000 names on paper, and maybe there are 170,000 boots, but at most, at most, being generous, there are three battalions that can actually go out there and provide security in Iraq, less than 20,000 people. This army is a paper machet force and we, the administration, has not provided the infrastructures needed to train it.
Now why have they not done that? Why you would think immediately after the collapse of the Iraq Army, of course it did not help that the administration made what appears to be a major tactical blunder, which was to disband the Iraqi Army in the first place, without any security in Iraq to replace it, which led to this horrendous looting, if you will recall, looting that everyone predicted except the civilian leadership of the military here, knowing the history of Iraq, the violence in the ethnic groups. The fact that no security was supplied after the collapse of the Iraqi Army has put us behind the 8 ball.
In any event. At that point you would think the administration would push the alarm button to say we are going to speed forward as far as we possibly can to train and equip the Iraqi Army. Boy, were we wrong. In fact, it is this bad. In this chamber, when the defense bill came to the floor here the week before last for the appropriations bill, the majority party had put in a limitation on what could be spent to train the Iraqi military force. Now, it seems to me that ought to be the place we should not be scrimping money. We should not be trying to artificially limit. That is the place we should put the pedal to the metal and train these forces to replace our sons and daughters as soon as humanly possible. Now fortunately we passed an amendment that lifted that cap. I brought an amendment. I appreciate the Chair accepted it, and we actually got rid of that limitation. But this has been one of a long train of failures that follows from a fundamental misapprehension of the situation. And all of these mistakes that we have talked about flow from one basic misunderstanding by this administration, and that was the assumption that they made, that they could put on rose colored glasses and Baghdad would look like Paris in 1944 and the Shiias and the Sunnis would break bread together and sing Kumbaya and democracy would flower without standing up an Iraqi Army, without having security, without having armored HUMVEES, without having flak jackets for our troops, without having a provision for the National Guard, which is now so extented that the governors now, you know, the governors had a meeting just this week saying how are we going to fight our fires this summer when the National Guard is not here. This has been a continuation of the rose colored glasses syndrome that has now resulted in a continued failure to stand up an Iraqi Army.
Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. INSLEE. I yield to the gentleman from Ohio.
Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I just want to kind of expound on that point a little bit. It is not like there were not people in the country saying we know you are going to go to Baghdad. We know you are going to win the war. We know you are going to defeat the enemy. A lot of us were saying then what? Then what are you going to do? And there was never any hard answer on what this administration was going to do. So, you know it is not like they went in blind. You are preparing for a war. Sit down and figure out all the options. What if they do not hand us flowers and Hershey bars? You know, then what do we do? And if that does not work and something else, then what do we do. You should have four or five plans. This is just a lack of preparation, and it was that rush to war that I think caused all the problems that I think you already stated.
Mr. DELAHUNT. I think it is interesting to go back a bit and to remember that the Department of State had worked for months on a plan, a plan that was fleshed out by bringing in experts from outside, by bringing in those with different perspectives. And yet, because there was some suspicion on the part of the Pentagon that State was not enthusiastically in support of the military invasion of Iraq, that that had to be put aside. And now we find ourselves, obviously, in a real mess
Mr. INSLEE. I just want to say that, you know, that is history. It is important to review. But the present and the future are disconcerting now too. For instance, we now know that we have this paper machet force in Iraq, and that is all it is, to provide security. And until it becomes real, it is going to be difficult to get our troops home.
But even today, this administration, because they are so wedded to this go it alone policy, has rejected offers from adjoining nations in the region to train these Iraqi troops. Egypt, we are told, has made a specific proposal to train Iraqi troops to expedite that process so we can replace our people and get our people home and replace them with Iraqis. And this administration, because of their go it alone attitude has rejected that offer of other people in the region to train these forces.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
