Public Statements
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2006
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 20, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2006. -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
AMENDMENT OFFERED BY MR. INSLEE
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I offer an amendment.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is very simple. It lists the cap that is presently written into the bill to limit the amount of money that we would commit to the training and equipping of the Iraqi securities forces, to limit that to $500 million.
I hope that we are united in the belief that the way to bring our troops home is to fulfill the training and equipping of the Iraqi security forces so that they can become responsible for Iraq's destiny and our troops can coming home in dignity and as quickly as possible.
Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. INSLEE. I yield to the gentleman from Florida.
Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Chairman, I would like to suggest to the gentleman that we think this is a good amendment, and it certainly is consistent with the conversation that the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Murtha) and I have both had with the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee), and we are prepared to accept the gentleman's amendment.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for his interest and leadership.
Mr. Chairman, I will close briefly by saying this is an important amendment. I appreciate the Chair's acceptance of it. We hope that the administration does listen to the voices in Congress that are basically saying if we can train one more trainer one day earlier, we should do so; if we can provide one more piece of equipment for the Iraqi security forces one day earlier, we should do so; if we can employ one more interpreter so that these folks can be trained earlier, we should do so. This amendment will hasten that. I hope the administration will bear heed on that, and that General Patrais is successful.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
