Public Statements
Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 15, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


SCIENCE, STATE, JUSTICE, COMMERCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2006 -- (House of Representatives - June 15, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
AMENDMENT OFFERED BY MR. INSLEE
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I offer an amendment.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
This is a small, but I think meaningful, amendment that will stop some of the cuts that have been going on for several years in our Coastal Zone Management account that aids so many communities on the coast and our watersheds across the country. Unfortunately, we have continued to seek cuts in the NOAA budget, which have also impacted the Coastal Zone Management program over the last several years, this year a $500 million cut in the NOAA budget. Our amendment would restore simply $5 million to the Coastal Zone Management account to be used in numerous places across the country.
This summer our constituents are going to be going to the beaches, but unfortunately there is some bad news at those beaches. We have got algae, red tide, closures of shellfish beds in New England. We have got fish in 22 sites in coastal waterways found contaminated with toxics. One third of the beaches in the Great Lakes have been closed due to septic and sewage problems at one point or another in the last several years. We have got problems in our beaches, and we do not want to allow cuts to continue to occur to this Coastal Zone Management account.
I want to note this account is not just for the West and east coasts. This includes watersheds across the country, for instance, in the Ohio Cuyahoga County project to address some problems at Euclid Creek; in Pennsylvania in Bucks County, an award to help handicap access of Silver Lake Nature Center. This really is a nationwide program, and there are nationwide problems that we want to address.
There has been a strong bipartisan support for this program. I note the President, on our national oceans policy, has suggested we need increased, not decreased, funding with our coastal beaches, which are real jewels in the crown of our national assets.
This money would come out of the Bureau of Industry and Security. That bureau in this year's proposed budget would get a 14 percent plus-up. After our proposal, they would still have a 7 percent increase. So under our proposal, we preserve our beaches. We simply restore this to levels we had in 2002, and we still increase this agency that is responsible for export controls in the Department of Commerce. This is something to really get back to where we were in 2002 to protecting our beaches. We commend this to our Members.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
This is a balancing act, but these accounts are in balance. This Bureau of Industry and Security is going up under the proposed bill by $10 million. It is going up $10 million, and under our amendment it would still go up $5 million. It would still go up 7 percent. This agency is getting bigger. It is having more capability under our amendment than it did last year, and it is going to have an ability to do its mission. But we will also at the same time with my amendment try to keep some of the toxics and sewage off the beaches that our constituents are going to see this summer in numerous places around this country.
And the challenges that we face in the oceans have not been going down. They are becoming greater. It does not make sense for this Congress year after year to cut the attention that we give to the beaches across this country and the lake shores from the Great Lakes to the Mississippi to the Gulf Coast and the Pacific. This is not our prioritization. Without this amendment there is an imbalance. Let us have both these accounts go up. Under my amendment, both of these accounts go up this year, and that is the prioritization.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
