Public Statements
Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2006
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 24, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2006 -- (House of Representatives - May 24, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) has addressed the serious ramifications of abandoning this bipartisan policy regarding reprocessing; but there is another evil that this amendment will fix, and that is an evil that, again, trying to go back to America's commitment not to do interim storage, that we made on a bipartisan basis back in 1990. We made a very conscious, bipartisan decision not to try to stick these communities with the misnomer of interim storage.
Interim storage of radioactive waste in America is sort of like the interim pyramids of Egypt: they tend to stay around a long time. There is nothing interim about this effort to put this in the Hanford Nuclear Reservation, a place where we had 450 million gallons of radioactive waste already leaking with a plume potentially heading to the Columbia River. It is now the largest cleanup site, one of, if not the, in America, and yet we intend to put more radioactive waste if this amendment is not adopted potentially at Hanford.
Why would we do this? This is sort of like coal is to New Castle when you send radioactive material to Hanford, which is the very place we are trying to clean up. This is the last place we ought to be sticking these repositories, not the first place.
I have to object to this being done in report language with no hearings, with no chance for the public to have input into this major decision of our nuclear policy. This is a distortion of how we have tried to make bipartisan policy about these very sensitive issues, and this is why we need to pass this amendment. By the way, this is not just Hanford. It is going to be driving by your neighborhoods on its way to these three interim sites.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
