Public Statements
Hearing of House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations - Problems with the E-Rate Program: GAO Review of FCC Management and Oversight
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 16, 2005
Location: Unknown


HEARING OF HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS - PROBLEMS WITH THE E-RATE PROGRAM: GAO REVIEW OF FCC MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT
March 16, 2005
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Inslee. I would. Thank you--and answers, too.
I am sorry. I haven't been able to join you for this whole hearing, so my apologies if my questions are redundant. This has been a pretty startling report to read, in some of these revelations, to see--and I have looked at a lot of GAO reports, and perfection is never attained and always sought for, and we never get there, and so we recognize criticisms for every potential project; but this one is really disturbing to me. And I will just be very candid with the FCC on this. Looking at these multiple sort of structural failures, I am very glad that we are raising these funds for this incredible need that we need in our schools, but I am honestly questioning whether this is the right agency to be responsible for the distribution of these funds. I think it is incredibly important program, and it has an incredible demand in our schools. I think the fund is appropriate and want to see it remain. But I really wonder if having a regulatory agency responsible for distributing funds to other local agencies is really the right mix for the talents of the FCC and whether there is another agency in the Federal Government that is more adept at that type of procedure, of establishing audit trails, criteria for funding, a good, competitive bidding process, matrixes for determining performance--that is a skill set, you know, that I just really wonder whether this agency has, given its sort of historic regulatory function. Now, that is a broad question. You know, what assurance do we have that it wouldn't be better for us to go to an agency who really has one its principal focuses the distribution of funds to other agencies? Is there some inherent difficulty for a regulatory agency to be given that type of responsibility? Anyone can answer that. The FCC might go first, but----
Mr. Carlisle. I think you are actually asking exactly the right question. When this program was established in 1996, it was given to an independent regulatory agency that has an annual budget of about $250 million. Alright? Nothing near the size of--for example, the Department of Education, the Department of Agriculture--any executive branch Agency. Moreover, it is a regulatory agency which is largely populated with regulatory attorneys and economists, not people who have had extensive experience with grant-making programs. So as a result, the FCC did the best it could in setting up the program. Now, I think it is a valid criticism that should it have asked for more help early on, should have gotten outside help, should have gotten outside consultants, talked with NAPA, the National Academy of Public Administration, earlier? Absolutely. At this point and I believe for the last couple of years, we have focused on trying to undo some of the effect of that process we started out with. But to a certain extent, I think you are raising a very valid question about whether or not the FCC is the appropriate holder for this responsibility.
Mr. Goldstein. I would add a couple of points. First, I think the GAO has long been concerned, since we have done quite a few reports over the years, that there are a lot of structural issues, a lot of administrative issues, surrounding USAC and FCC and the E-rate Program, that things have never worked, nearly, in the way they could have, particularly early on.
We are not in a position to say whether or not this is something that ought to be sent to another agency. We are very happy to see that FCC is going to have NAPA take a look at this because it is certainly time that an outside entity helped them determine what are some of the other ways that these kinds of programs could be delivered, how these funds could be managed, and how could this program be more effective. I think it is important that there be a number of attributes to this program, wherever it ends up and however it's finally managed. I think it has to have structural clarity between any of the entities that are involved in it; it has to have financial management and internal controls that apply to Federal funds and that work effectively; it has to have clear program goals and performance measures; it should continue to have minimal burdens for the beneficiaries, as minimal as possible; and it ought to have extremely effective oversight through rulemaking, through the audit process, through appeals processes, through an effectiv Inspector General that has enough funds to do the job, if indeed the program continues to reside at the FCC.
Mr. Inslee. If another agency was going to take over responsibility for distribution--and I am not proposing that at the minute. It is just an honest, open-minded questions. Would that in some way damage the ability to collect the funds from the payers? There is no difficulty there we would encounter, is there?
Mr. Carlisle. No, at the present time, we collect the funds through the 499 form, which is filed by telecommunications carriers every year on, I believe, a semi-annual basis. There is no reason why that form and its return couldn't be lodged somewhere else.
Mr. Inslee. I noted a newspaper article that suggested that of the $14.6 billion that had been collected or awarded, only $9.2 billion has been spent. Is that a correct characterization? Are those real terms? And if so, you know, what are we to make of that, and what is the principal reason for that?
Mr. Carlisle. I believe those numbers are approximately correct. Historically, we have known that every year the amount of funds disbursed does not match the amount of funds committed, and lags it every year; and there are a number of reasons for this.
Quite frequently, when funds are actually committed to the schools through a final commitment decision letter, usually the school does not come back with an invoice to claim the funds for a number of months. In some cases, it could be 1 or 2 months, but in many cases, it might be 12 months or 18 months, once the actual work--and usually on priority 2, wiring work, it usually takes about that long.
Now, there is certainly an issue that we need to consider as to whether that indicates that our processes aren't efficient enough, but I think there is also an issue that is just inevitable: that equipment prices go down; schools decide that they don't want to do certain work; contractors aren't available; and the funds don't get used. So there is always going to be a situation, no matter how efficient our processes are, where your disbursements in a program of this type may lag commitments. However, programmatically, we have handled this. And in order to make sure we continue to be able to make funds available to schools, if we have unused funds from year to year, they roll over to the next year and increase the cap. So the cap for this year is not $2.25 billion; it is $2.4 billion. And that additional money, we believe, will actually allow us to provide more funding to schools that otherwise wouldn't have received it.
Mr. Inslee. Mr. Bennett, did you have response to that kind of issue?
Mr. Bennett. No; no response at all.
Mr. Inslee. Got you. Thank you, gentleman and lady. Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_house_hearings&docid=99904.wais
