Public Statements
Oversight Hearing of House Committee on Resources U.S. House of Representatives: Status of the Indian Trust Fund Lawsuit, Cobell V. Norton
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 16, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


OVERSIGHT HEARING OF HOUSE COMMITTEE ON RESOURCES U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: STATUS OF THE INDIAN TRUST FUND LAWSUIT, COBELL V. NORTON
February 16, 2005
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Inslee. I thank you. First, I want to thank the Chair for holding this hearing.
I have two kinds of areas of inquiry. First, this issue of how the Department intends to pursue working with Congress on this issue. Last year, my perception was there was just an end run around the committee of jurisdiction and a last-second attempt to stick something in the appropriations bill as a rider, which I didn't think ultimately was going to be a successful way of doing it even if it was perfect, given the nature of the effort. Was the Department involved in that? What is your intention in the future in terms of this?
Mr. Cason. Well, on the issue of the appropriations rider, I do not know--well, let me start with me. I was not involved in writing the rider. I do not know the Departmental employee that was involved in writing the rider. It is my understanding that was an initiative on the part of the Appropriations staff because we had a District Court decision that suggested that we needed to get a historical accounting done in three years. Our budget estimate is we were going to need $2 to $3 billion in year one in order to try to meet the court's decision and that the Appropriations Committee wasn't entirely convinced they had that amount of money laying around. So they tried to put a hiatus on it to see how things could work out. That is my understanding.
In terms of trying to resolve the issue, it does need to be resolved. We have been at this for nine years and we are not really making real material progress. We are doing lots of to-ing and fro-ing, but we are not making real material progress, and there are damages associated with taking so long to do this.
So we would very much like to get it done and the real issue again is the level of uncertainty that is associated with this and the lack of information and managing expectations. So when the expectations are this wide, and for the record, my hands are way far apart, when the expectations are wide and you don't have what appears to be common ground, that is where we really need some help from Congress to lay out what would be fair under the circumstances, because certainly the allegations are there. The expectations are there. The uncertainty is there. And the only way we really resolve materially the uncertainty is plow a bunch of money into historical accounting and it will take a long time, which may in the end yield no material results.
On the other hand, we can speed the process up with some kind of a settlement if we can figure out what is fair to deal with this issue and then try to resolve it so Indian beneficiaries actually benefit from the process rather than lawyers and accountants. That is where we are.
Mr. Inslee. Not without this committee, you can't do it. At least, that is our view from this side of the table.
Mr. Cason. That is exactly right. That is why we are here.
Mr. Inslee. Second question, it was pointed out in something I was reading about the difficulty of settlement in taking into consideration the non-individual claims, the tribal claims themselves. It was pointed out that the plaintiffs in the lawsuit don't have authority to dismiss or release any claims by tribal entities themselves.
Mr. Cason. They don't.
Mr. Inslee. Have the tribes been involved in those discussions? Is there a role to bring them into the discussions? What is the status of that?
Mr. Cason. If I recall correctly, Congressman, we have on the order of 22 or 23 lawsuits from tribes that have similar characteristics to the Cobell lawsuit. They are seeking a historical accounting or alleging historical mismanagement. There is a separate division of the Department of Justice that works on those. It is the Energy and Natural Resources Division. They are actively engaged in conversations with the tribes on their individual lawsuits. I know that the historical accounting budget, some of the money is designed to do additional accounting work for tribal accounts, just as we have money for the individual accounts.
Mr. Inslee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_house_hearings&docid=98807.wais
