Public Statements
Iraq Watch
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 15, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


IRAQ WATCH -- (House of Representatives - February 15, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, let me add just to what the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Strickland) was saying. He was asking why this administration cannot make veterans a priority, but I would suggest that we are not so much even asking the administration to recognize veterans as a priority, but just asking them to give them a decent kind of regular order priority, because the fact of the matter is this administration, and it is sad to say, has not only failed to give the veterans priority. They have really treated them like about second- or third-class citizens.
The administration really has decided to put veterans, some of whom have lost limbs and health and their lives in Iraq, on a second or third tier below other folks that the administration values more highly. That is a fairly dramatic thing to say, but let me back up what I mean by that.
The administration has decided to put people who earn over $400,000 a year and got about almost a third of the tax breaks that the President handed out, the President refuses to ask any of those folks to contribute in any way to the Iraq war, and so basically the administration has put veterans behind those folks on a lower tier. He has not just put them on a lower priority. He has put them on a second-class tier, but it is not just folks earning a high income.
The President has also put Halliburton on a higher tier than the veterans who have actually fought the wars. We have not seen this administration really get aggressive about the misuse of funds in Iraq.
We Democrats had to hold sort of a rump hearing. The gentleman from California (Mr. Waxman) and the Senator from North Dakota had a hearing to find out what happened to all this money that disappeared into the financial swamps of Iraq.
Mr. STRICKLAND. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I yield to the gentleman from Ohio.
Mr. STRICKLAND. Mr. Speaker, the fact is that, as I understand it, about $9 billion is unaccounted for.
Mr. INSLEE. Exactly, Mr. Speaker. And if the gentleman will continue to yield, three times, three times the amount of money it would take to fix this problem with veterans so they would not have to stand in line for 6 months to get treatment when they come back from Iraq, this administration lost three times as much money in the financial netherworld of Iraq, and they refuse to do anything about it because it is embarrassing.
Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, reclaiming my time, I would just like to say that that would not be the least embarrassing thing about this war.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, let me mention maybe one of the most embarrassing things, and I read about this today. When I said that this administration has put veterans on a lower tier of value, let me tell my colleagues the sort of icing on the cake. Today, I read that a group of veterans from the first Persian Gulf War who were tortured by Saddam Hussein in the Abu Ghraib prison brought a lawsuit in the American courts against Iraq, the Iraqi Government, and they were granted a significant judgment, several millions of dollars for the abuse, and it was horrendous abuse. These were fliers who went down in the first Persian Gulf War, were captured by Saddam's forces, and were terribly tortured; and they won a judgment that seemed to me to make the right decision considering what they went through. They now are attempting to enforce that judgment against Iraq and against the oil revenues that are generated in Iraq.
So what did the administration do? Did it come to the aid of these veterans who were so terribly tortured at Abu Ghraib? No. This administration went to court to refuse to pay these veterans the judgment they had received against the Iraqi oil field money, essentially, which is now pouring into Iraq.
And the irony of this is pretty amazing because our Secretary of Defense, Rumsfeld, has said we are going to pay damages to the Iraqis who were subject to the abusive conditions in Abu Ghraib by our forces. The same defense Secretary who said we ought to pay the Iraqis who were abused in Abu Ghraib, unfortunately, in our situation, in our custody, now steps in and refuses to allow our Americans to get payment when Saddam Hussein tortured them. What kind of convoluted cockamamie, knuckleheaded policy is that.
Mr. STRICKLAND. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I yield to the gentleman from Ohio.
Mr. STRICKLAND. Mr. Speaker, I have introduced legislation to make this government stop what they are doing, stop fighting these veterans, these tortured veterans. The gentleman explained it well, but I would like to just take a stab at it as well because what we have here is these are soldiers that were captured during the first Gulf War, and they were terribly tortured under Saddam Hussein's regime. This government, as my colleagues recall, had held on to billions of dollars that were Iraqi dollars, and when these tortured Americans sued and won their suit, they were laying claim on those dollars that this country had possession of, and this administration returned that money to Iraq and literally used the Justice Department to go to court to try to set aside that judgment that would compensate these soldiers.
And the gentleman from Washington State is right. At the same time, here is Secretary Rumsfeld speaking of the Iraqis who were abused at Abu Ghraib prison saying they are going to be compensated. So our Secretary of Defense is willing to use American dollars to compensate Iraqis who had been abused by Americans, and at the same time this government is fighting to keep our American troops who were tortured in Iraq from being compensated with Iraqi dollars. How can one explain that to the American people? It is unbelievable.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I yield to the gentleman from Washington.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, there is an explanation, and it is very clear what the explanation is. The explanation is that this administration puts on a higher tier of value the Iraqi provisional government in dollars than these American veterans who were tortured. They put them on a higher tier, number one. Number two, the administration puts Halliburton on a higher tier than veterans because they refused to give this $9 billion back that could be used to finance veterans, number two. Number three, this administration puts people who earn over $400,000 a year and got a tax cut that the administration refuses to even talk about now, it puts them higher than the people who went to Iraq and came home sometimes without legs.
I do not believe that is consistent with American values on how we ought to look at respective contribution by Americans to our freedom, which was the ultimate contribution of these veterans. But it shows a skewed value judgment by the administration. That explains why this administration takes the position.
Mr. STRICKLAND. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will continue to yield, I think it shows a moral blindness. I really do. I mean, we are talking here about decisions that are made that affect the lives of American soldiers, and in this case soldiers who were tortured. There is no question that they were tortured. There is no question about that. There is no question as to who was responsible. It was the Iraqi Government under Saddam Hussein.
Now this administration is trying to play, I think, word games because they are saying, well, that was the government that existed under Saddam Hussein and now that Saddam Hussein has been removed from office, this new government is not responsible for what happened under Saddam Hussein. But I would remind the gentleman from Washington State the money that we were holding on to here was money that was from the Saddam Hussein government and regime. So I would like to ask the President if I had a chance to talk with him, I would like to say: Mr. President, why do you think Iraqis who were mistreated at Abu Ghraib deserve to be compensated with American tax dollars and at the same time you do not believe that American soldiers who were tortured when they were captured and held in Iraq should be compensated with Iraqi dollars? That seems like a fairly straightforward question, and I just wonder how the President would answer that.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I yield to the gentleman from Washington.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I think I know, if I can posit a hypothesis, in general how the President would answer, perhaps in more diplomatic terms than I will offer, but I think he would say: Mr. Strickland, with all due respect, you just do not get it. Our administration has made a decision for the first time in American history to fight a war, but the only people we are going to ask to sacrifice are veterans. Nobody else is going to have to sacrifice.
Mr. STRICKLAND. And the soldiers that are active duty.
Mr. INSLEE. And the soldiers that are active duty.
Mr. STRICKLAND. And Reservists and Nation Guard.
Mr. INSLEE. And Reservists, some of whom are going to have to go back for a second and third deployment. These are the only Americans that we have asked to suffer and sacrifice because I, as President of the United States, do not think this is worth fighting enough to ask any other Americans to sacrifice rather than that small, less than ½ percent of the population. So as a result, I, as President, have made a decision that if the veterans get in my way by needing health care or if the veterans get in my way by having a judgment because they got tortured by Saddam Hussein and if they get in my way because they want to get Halliburton to pay the 9 billion bucks back that was fraudulently used by at least somebody over in Iraq, then it is just tough.
They are not going to get in my way, because I as president am not going to touch tax cuts, I am going to do deficit spending, I am going to continue to cut these veterans off from getting payment, because if I get away with it, that is good enough for me. That is the only answer I can think of.
Mr. STRICKLAND. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will yield further, we are standing here and talking about this, and there are probably Americans watching and perhaps a few listening to us, and what we are saying sounds almost unbelievable.
I understand how someone listening to this may be puzzled, because there is no rational explanation, as far as I am concerned. Why should this government put a greater value on compensating Iraqis than on compensating tortured Americans? It just does not make sense. And it does not fit the image that is usually presented to the American people by this administration, because you hear a lot of rhetoric about how much we appreciate our soldiers, how much we appreciate what the military does for us, but the world now knows, and certainly most Americans that have paid attention, that we did send our soldiers into battle without adequate body armor, and we have them driving around in vehicles in Iraq that are not properly armored, and we have people over there conducting patrols and driving long distances and taking fuel from one part of Iraq to the other part of Iraq without night vision goggles. So we know there has been that kind of neglect.
But what my friend has brought to our attention here tonight regarding these tortured Americans and the administration's fighting them through the courts to keep them from getting compensated by the Iraqi government is nearly unbelievable.
Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, reclaiming my time, I think if you are sitting at home listening to this debate that we are having here, the discussion we are having here, there is a real key component, and I mentioned it earlier and I think it is worth reiterating: Every major veteran's service organization is against what the President and this Congress is doing.
This is the most noble generation in the history of our country. They are fiscally conservative. They are Republicans and Democrats. They are frugal. They saved. They never had the kind of personal debt that our Nation has today, not their generation.
They are not going to ask for money just to ask for it. They need it, and they see the need with their friends, within their organizations, and they are asking for it. If you do not believe the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Strickland), the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee), the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Ryan) or the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Meek), believe all the veterans organizations that are out there sticking up for their membership. If there is anybody you should believe, it is them.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will yield further, I want to tip a hat to these veterans groups, who are really one of the least demanding groups of people I have ever worked with, considering how they have been mistreated since this Iraq war started and since this administration started to cut health care. Incredibly, they have been respectful in bringing this to our attention. But, frankly, if they were yelling at the top of their lungs and circling the White House with pitchforks and torches, I think that would be, frankly, understandable.
I was talking to somebody the other day saying if you are a World War II veteran right now and you have a urological concern and you want to get an exam, you have to wait like four months in the State of Washington to get in for an examination. That is just not right. Those lines are getting longer, and they will continue to get longer because of these cuts in the general VA budget.
The gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Strickland) has talked with some eloquence about raising the deductible that individual veterans have to pay. Now they are also trying to soak veterans for $250 up front before you get your first dollar of health care payments, if you make the enormous sum of $22,000, which puts people right up in the Donald Trump category, I am sure.
They are also cutting the general budget, or not raising it to the level it demands, for the whole hospital system, which means these waiting lines get longer, just as the number of people who need them get larger. So it is a multiple. It is like a death by a thousand cuts.
Let me suggest one reason why we do not hear as much as we should about this issue. If you look at the pictures of our Iraqi veterans who are coming home, and we in Congress on both sides of the aisle have visited with them and know how courageous these mostly young and not-so-young people are, if you look at pictures of them, they are a lot of times alone. They have gone back a lot of times to a small town and are living in somebody's basement, and you see them sitting on the edge of a chair with a missing limb. They are kind of alone. There is not a big group around them except maybe their immediate family. They do not have a blaring group of bugles and a press corps to advocate their cause. Maybe that is what we ought to be doing here tonight, and in some small way I guess we are.
Mr. STRICKLAND. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will yield further, why is there not an outcry about this? I think one of the reasons is that the American people are not fully aware of what is happening and find it hard to believe. I can understand why someone listening to us tonight would find it hard to believe what we have said, because it is so outrageous.
It is outrageous. As I said a little earlier, it is contrary to the public image we get from this administration, because if you listen to rhetoric coming from the White House and coming from the leadership in this House here, you would think that they really appreciate the veterans and they care for veterans and they were going to do everything they could to care for veterans. But the facts just do not match the rhetoric.
You could also wonder why is there not an outcry from many of the Republicans who I know care about veterans? I have friends on that side of the aisle that I know are veterans themselves, and they deeply in their hearts care for veterans. The gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) was one such person that I mentioned, the former Chair of the committee. But I think there is a hesitancy to speak out, because if you speak out and you challenge the leadership over there, there is a price to pay.
The gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) found that out. When he spoke up for veterans, he was stripped of his chairman position and he was taken off of a committee that he had been on for 24 years. That is almost unbelievable. Twenty-four years, a quarter of a century almost, this man had served on that committee.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman would yield, when they stripped the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) of his chairmanship, he was sort of politically decapitated, if you will, because he had a dissenting voice in the Republican caucus. He wanted to bring to the country's attention the fact that veterans were not getting their due. That was a courageous step by him. As a result, the leadership essentially lynched him and excommunicated him from the leadership position he held, after 25 years.
Think of what that message is to Iraq. We saw Iraqis really courageously go to the polls. That was amazing. They had a 58 percent or 60 percent turnout, almost 82 percent in a lot of the Shiite areas. There were people who walked through violence to get to the polls. This was a lot of personal courage there that we should respect in a lot of ways.
One would think we ought to honor that and send some messages to Iraq about how to run a democracy.
Well, look at just three examples, how under the leadership of the current House, what our lessons to Iraq are. Number one, to the Sunnis, we want the Sunnis to come into the Iraqi government. We want the minority group to participate in the government, because if we do not get the Sunnis involved in the Iraqi government, this insurgency is going to continue to bloom. So our message is to the Shiites, embrace the Sunnis. Let them come in and have a voice in your government. Let dissent have a voice. Reach a consensus through embracing the minority.
What do they do here in the House of Representatives? To their own Member, the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith), who had a dissenting viewpoint, kind of the position the Sunnis are in as a minority, boom, off with his head, silence him. Take him out of the political discourse here by removing his chairmanship. That is not a good message to the Iraqis about how democracy ought to run.
Mr. STRICKLAND. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will yield further, I do not think is it is a good message to the rest of the Republicans who serve there. The message is if you challenge us, you are in trouble. So it silences even their own Members. It keeps them from having the ability to speak up and speak out.
I have said before, we are elected to come here to represent the people who vote for us and make us their representative. We do not come here to serve the gentleman from Illinois (Speaker Hastert). We do not come here to serve the gentleman from Texas (Mr. DeLay) or the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Pelosi). We come here to represent the people who send us here.
If my Republican friends do not have the freedom to speak up and speak out about what they think is right for their constituents without getting a committee taken away from them or getting a position taken away from them, well, then they become impotent, quite frankly. They are not able to be a true representative.
I ask this question: Where are the friends of the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith)? Where are they in the Republican caucus? I want to tell you, if that happened to my friend from Washington State, if our Democratic leadership did that, or if our Democratic leadership did that to my colleague from the State of Ohio, I would be outraged, and I think Members of our caucus would be outraged. We would not stand for it.
But there is a silence over there that is very, very troubling. What it means is there is one or two or three people who are in charge of what happens in this House, and the others go a long to get along.
I quoted this statement from Ben Franklin before. I think it is good and applicable. Ben Franklin said, "If you act like sheep, the wolves will eat you." I wonder if my colleagues over there are not acting like sheep? They are being awfully quiet. They let an honored, respected, hard-working, committed, devoted, dedicated member of their caucus be treated in that manner, be treated in that manner, and I did not hear any public outcry at all. None at all.
I think it must be because of fear, because I know there are people over there who respected the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith), who believed he was right in his thinking and in the position he was trying to take as an advocate for veterans. Yet I did not hear any public outcry.
I think it is a shame that this House would be so constrained out of fear of what the leadership may do if the individual members speak up and speak out.
Mr. INSLEE. If the gentleman will yield further, the President had some eloquent language about freedom around the world, which is something we all aspire to. I guess we are saying people ought to have freedom in the House of Representatives to stand up for veterans, and not be punished as the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) was. That is wrong, and we are going to continue to be a voice for veterans so this administration does not cut their health care.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
