Public Statements
Hearing of House Committee on Energy and Commerce - Department of Energy's Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Proposal and the Energy Policy Act of 2005: ...
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 9, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


HEARING OF HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE - DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY'S FISCAL YEAR 2006 BUDGET PROPOSAL AND THE ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2005: ENSURING JOBS FOR OUR FUTURE WITH SECURE AND RELIABLE ENERGY
February 9, 2005
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Inslee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Rare freshman privileges. I appreciate that.
I won't--I can't mince words, Mr. Secretary----
Chairman Barton. Did you give an opening statement? Do we give you 5 minutes?
Mr. Inslee. I did not. No, I did not.
Chairman Barton. Were you here and deferred?
Mr. Inslee. I will let you be the judge of that, Mr. Chair.
Chairman Barton. He was here. He was here and deferred, so you get 6 minutes.
Mr. Inslee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Given the gravity of this issue, I really can't mince words. Normally, I would like to be friendly and gracious when we start----
Secretary Bodman. No.
Mr. Inslee. [continuing] but let me just get right to the heart of this thing. This budget really does take two very damaging shots at the Pacific Northwest economy and environment. And Mr. Walden indicated that your efforts to stick Washington State ratepayers with a 20-percent rate increase is not only unfair, but it is illegal. We have dealt with this issue in 1992 when we passed a law that specifically made it illegal for the executive branch, I just want to make sure I give you right language, to conduct any studies relating or leading to the possibility of changing from the currently required at-cost to a market rate for BPA power. We dealt with this. We made it illegal even for the executives to study this issue. We were so adamant in the U.S. Congress. And yet we are here. We have the executive telling us that you are studying this issue and want to roll out this. You have got to understand, this is a 20-percent increase, at least. Your documents show $100 energy tax on my consumers who are trying to make their mortgage payments and keep their small businesses alive. It is $480 million a year in Washington and $2.5 billion over 3 years. It is a major economic tsunami for the State of Washington. And the reason you notice a little bit of ire in my voice is because in the last 2 years, this same administration that wants to put this energy tax on my consumers is the one that sat there on its hands and let Enron take us to the cleaners for $1.5 billion in the West Coast. We are already fragile. We have given 2 quarts of blood because this administration let Enron do this to us, and now you are back to the table with the second low blow.
So you will note a little vigor here that is going to come out, I think, on a bipartisan basis. Now this is a situation we have dealt with many times. We pay cost-based. We are not subsidized. We don't expect the libraries to make a profit and we don't expect the PMAs to make a profit.
So I guess the question I have for you is, is your effort to put this surcharge on the citizens of the State of Washington, is that because you want to soak them to pay for your fossil fuel subsidies in your budget or you want to soak them to protect your tax cuts for people who are over $350,000 a year? Which is your motivation?
Secretary Bodman. Thank you, sir, for your comments.
Excuse me. I am having trouble speaking.
Mr. Inslee. Take your time, as long as it is off the clock.
Secretary Bodman. The goal of these proposals, as I said, was to put these businesses on a more business-like basis. Electric energy that goes to your constituents, goes at a price that is viewed as being below market and is being subsidized by other taxpayers. And so this is a goal to try to equalize, if you will, the economic requirements that are placed on different taxpayers and to make it even. That is all there is to it.
Mr. Inslee. I appreciate your answer. Let me just note that we pay our cost. That is an economic model. Congress has decided on it. And your current studies are illegal, according to this law. I hope that you will take a look at that and talk to your counsel.
The second issue, at Hanford, we have a million gallons leakage into the Columbia River, some day, potentially. We hope that doesn't happen. We are in the midst--we are in the middle of an effort to clean up the Hanford nuclear site. And despite that fact, you want to cut over $200 million from this budget. This is a huge problem. And we are very concerned, because while you want to take over $200 million out of the Hanford site, for some reason you only take $4 million out of the South Carolina site, which is interesting because South Carolina knuckled under to your request to leave all of this high-level nuclear waste in the tanks in Washington State just by reclassifying. Like, if you change ``plutonium'' and you rename it ``milk,'' then it is benign. And that is what you wanted us to do, and we would not knuckle under to that. Now we find that you don't cut the Savannah budget, but you whack the heck of about 10 or 12 percent out of the Hanford budget. And then you, as Secretary of Energy, I think, and correct me if I am wrong, recorded as saying the reason is because of some of these legal difficulties or lawsuits or language to that effect. The legal difficulties is we simply want you to follow the law, and the law is that you remove this scum from these tanks. And you went over to the Senate the other day and said you were committed to that. Now I guess what I am trying to understand is how can you say you are committed to follow the law, then you try to use, the kindest language I can find is budgetary blackmail to whack our budget when we are simply trying to get you to follow the law. I just can't reconcile that. If you could help me, I would appreciate it.
Secretary Bodman. I would be happy to try to help you, sir.
There are reductions in the budget for Hanford and the environmental cleanup of Hanford. I am getting all choked up. Excuse me.
Mr. Inslee. My questions have that----
Secretary Bodman. It must.
There are reasons for it. One is, in fact, that we are trying to put our money in those areas of cleanup where we have the possibility, probability of achieving the maximum success. There are legal entanglements that we have in dealing at Hanford. You are aware of that. And there has been litigation there. We believe we are following the law. I believe I am following the law. And I would not state otherwise. And you and I apparently have a difference of view.
There is also a situation with respect to the vitrification plant, which is being constructed there, that they have recently discovered perhaps it should have occurred before, but they at least have identified it now, during the course of construction, potential seismic problems of the substructure that would support the foundation of this plant are more problematic. I think reasonably so, they have slowed down the construction of that vitrification plant, as they go through an evaluation on a unit by unit basis to make a determination is there enough margin for error built into the calculations for the foundations that would sustain it, given the changes in what they understood to be the seismic conditions. And so therefore, we can not spend money at the same rate that we had anticipated spending money and--during 2006 on the vitrification plant. And that is a meaningful factor in the reduction.
Third, we have actually completed some things that, therefore, there was to be overall a peak in 2005 in our environmental management account and that, to a degree, the fact that we have now moved all of the material from the single-wall tanks into double-wall tanks and that we have now emptied the basins the KBs, as I think they are called, and that all of that material has now been moved further away from the river to safer ground. So we now have completed some things and, therefore, we don't have to spend the money near-term in order to deal with that.
And so this is not a matter of blackmail. This is a matter of trying to make a responsible and reasoned judgment on where we can spend money and get results during that fiscal year.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_house_hearings&docid=99900.wais
