Public Statements
Hearing of House Committee on Energy and Commerce - Combating Spyware: H.R. 29, the Spy Act
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 26, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


HEARING OF HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE - COMBATING SPYWARE: H.R. 29, THE SPY ACT
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Inslee. Thank you.
Ira, I wanted to thank you for Microsoft's effort, but this is a little off subject. I would also like to thank a fellow who works for Microsoft who made a contribution of $750 million to the International Vaccine Effort yesterday. We appreciate that effort, the whole Microsoft family.
But I want to ask you about your Microsoft protection efforts. Could you just elaborate on what your experience has been on the new product that you have made available in a sense? You refer to it generally. How many people have accessed it? Has it worked? Have you had any difficulties? Are there ways around it? How are you doing with the international folks? Just if you can elaborate on it.
Mr. Rubinstein. Thank you, Congressman Inslee.
We acquired a company called Giant in late December, and we committed to release it as a--release their anti-spyware tool as a Microsoft product within a month, and we are very happy that we met that goal. And the figures I have are that in the last--in the first 2 weeks of January, at least, there have been more than 3 million downloads of the tool, so we are very pleased to see that positive feedback. We think that the tool has a number of interesting features beyond just detect and removal. As I pointed out before, it also has a real-time protection aspect to block spyware as it is downloaded. And it also creates, on an opt-in basis, something we call spynet, which allows consumers to report suspected spyware and then have that investigated on a priority basis and quickly added to the list of spyware programs that the tool detects. So we have taken the power of the Internet and turned it, you know, toward identifying more spyware and doing so very quickly.
Our plans are to accept consumer feedback for several months to begin working on localization of the product and then to release it as a full-fledged product some time probably in the first half of this year.
Mr. Inslee. Got you.
A question for the whole panel. Talk to us about our international efforts from offshore folks. What is our best protection against that? What strategies should we be thinking about that are not in this bill? What are you doing about it? We are looking for brainstorming here.
Mr. Schmidt. Thank you, Mr. Inslee, and it is good to see you again, sir.
It is interesting, because that is very closely aligned to Mr. Deal's question relative to the States where you have, you know--what is not in anybody's best interest is 50 different statutes or 50 different sets of regulations relative to this. You compound that tremendously by going international. So currently under the G8 Subcommittee on Cybercrime, which the State Department and the Department of Justice have been gracious enough to invite many of us from private sector to participate in that, we are working on the international realm as well, trying to use that same framework that has been established in this bill to try and internationalize that. It is very, very challenging, because some people view this truly as criminal. Some of the countries we deal with don't even have any laws close to the cybercrime piece of it, let alone the civil penalties, the provisions that this Act provides. So we are working that.
Also, in a private sector perspective, Microsoft, Yahoo, eBay, and AOL recently met in Asia with a number of the countries in Asia and signed a Memorandum of Understanding on working collectively on a proactive basis, as Mr. Rubinstein pointed out, to prevent these sort of things from happening.
So there are a lot of efforts, but none of them have been put together in a fashion by week and say in 6 months, we are going to have a solution. But it is not being ignored, by any stretch of the imagination.
Mr. Inslee. So if you look forward to the passage of this bill, does it just drive these folks from one country to another as we increase our international agreement, which I presume will start with G8, but I don't know how many countries there are, but there are a lot more than eight, is this--are they going to be one hopscotch ahead of us constantly until the world is under this bill we are going to pass or what do you think?
Mr. Schmidt. Yeah, it is interesting. Mr. Deal was asking a question while I wrote a note to myself, and relating back to the old issue, we dealt with telemarketers. And actually, we were forming, sort of, safe harbors for them, because they were hiding under certain States under the provisions where they felt they could operate in exemption. And that is correct. And we are, indeed, worried about that aspect of it.
And relative to the G8, by the way, even though it is the G8 Subcommittee, we have over 110 nations now that are a part--participating in that proactively as well as some multilaterals as well.
Mr. Schwartz. But one point to add on to that is that the Federal Trade Commission has really been moving, and they really recognize exactly this problem that you raise, that as we move into more of a network world, we are going to see--start seeing the bad guys move offshore and move their businesses offshore and have--has started to try and build alliances and started--start to work on some of these issues. This committee dealt with it--this issue in the crossborder fraud legislation that came forward, that the FTC has been pushing forward. And there have been other efforts that the FTC has been working on. So I think this is a question that goes beyond just spyware. It is really a question of how are we going to do enforcement for the Internet generally. One thing to point out, though, is it is going to be very expensive to do the kind of forensic works you need--work you need to be able to track people across the world--around the world. Just giving more power to the FTC is not, alone, going to do it.
Mr. Inslee. Ira, I think you made reference to you don't want to create a safe harbor that doesn't exist now. We always want to retain consumer choice here. Have we solved that problem or is there specific language you would suggest or----
Mr. Rubinstein. There is language in the Can Spam Act that goes in this direction. There is also a Good Samaritan provision in this Act that might be adjusted to deal with the issue that I identified.
Mr. Inslee. Should we use the Can Spam language in this bill?
Mr. Rubinstein. I think that would be appropriate. We have just begun to discuss that with staff, so we are in the early stages of addressing it.
Mr. Inslee. Thank you. Thanks, folks.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_house_hearings&docid=99899.wais
