Public Statements
Iraq Watch
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Nov. 17, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


IRAQ WATCH -- (House of Representatives - November 17, 2004)
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Hoeffel) but not just for this evening.
The Iraq Watch, which has been trying to bring a responsible voice to Iraq policy now for many months, was the brain child of the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Hoeffel), and he really did lead this effort, and we are very appreciative of him, and I know his constituents are, too.
I have to tell the gentleman, he has a lot of fans out in the State of Washington that I hear about, why can you not can be as good as Mr. Hoeffel. I hear that many times.
But seriously, the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Hoeffel) did something that does not happen all the time around here. He really led, and he led in an important issue to make sure Americans heard a voice about Iraq other than just from the White House, and that is important we have that debate. This was a creation of his and I think has been useful, and I know a lot of people have appreciated it, and I appreciate his leadership on that. We look forward to when the gentleman is back in public service. So we hope within 2 years, maybe even shorter. Who knows?
But with that, let me turn to the subject here which is a tough one tonight. I have to call a mother and father who lost their 19-year-old Marine in Fallujah this week tomorrow, and it is very difficult because all three of us here this evening voted against this war, and we have all had this experience of talking to families. It is very, very difficult.
What I am going to say is, what I know what we all have said, is no matter what you think of the policy, these are all good Americans who served, and no American has died in vain while serving under the flag of the United States. I am going to do my best to make sure parents appreciate that. No matter what you think of the policy, they died as heroes, and the people who are sitting tonight in Fallujah, that is how I think of them, no matter what you think of the policy. I know we all share that view.
It is difficult because it does inspire some anger sometimes I think in all of us as to what has happened in Iraq, where a war was started based on false assumptions about weapons of mass destruction and false assumptions and statements by the White House about Saddam's connection to 9/11.
The trouble I have tonight is that the same type of source of the mistake was made unfortunately is being perpetuated by the White House. In other words, one would think after the White House started a war based on two major falsehoods, that was given to him by certain people, that the President would be doubly diligent to endeavor to get people who would not perpetuate that same kind of mistake, but in fact, what we have seen since the election on November 2 is sort of like a green light for hubris, a green light to go ahead and actually make stronger in the administration the very voices that fouled up in giving us bad information about this war and making repeated misjudgments about how to perpetuate it.
Just look at the decisions that have been made in the last week. The man who himself admitted responsibility for putting a false statement into the State of the Union address, where the President told people that Saddam was trying to get uranium to build a nuclear weapon, it was a clear falsehood in the State of the Union address, and the man who himself admitted being responsible for telling Americans and the world that falsehood did not get docked pay, did not get fired. He just got a promotion to the National Security Council. So here we have the guy who is responsible for a major failure of American information that led to a war where 1,200 Americans have died. He gets a promotion. This is a perpetuation of this arrogant attitude that has got us into this pickle in Iraq.
What happens to the Defense Secretary who has had running arguments, as we know, with the Secretary of State Colin Powell about whether to go into this war and how to perpetuate it? Who is the one who leaves? It is the guy who, we are told at least, said let us be scrupulous about this, and the Secretary of Defense stays, the one who has been in charge of this since Abu Ghraib and did not give us accurate information, including the U.S. Congress, leading up to this.
Then what do we see happens at the CIA? Well, here's the capper for me. Here we have a man who left this chamber. He is now heading the CIA. What is the first thing he does, almost first thing he does? He writes a memo to all the CIA employees. I have not seen this memo but it is quoted in the paper. It says, he expects all employees that their job is to support the administration and its policies in our work and as agency employees we do not identify with, identify with, support or champion opposition to the administration or its policies.
He sent a very strong message to CIA employees: what the White House wants, it is going to get. And that is language that people understand.
The last thing this President needs is unanimity from his intelligence agencies. He needs debate. He needs to be told some information that may not square with his preordained view of the world. And, in fact, they are going the wrong way at the CIA and firing people who have deigned to give the President information that is different from information he believes to be true.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. I thank the gentleman for his comments, Mr. Speaker, and let me continue.
Later on in the memo, Goss has language that says "We provide the intelligence as we see it and let the facts alone speak to the policymaker." But when you send a memo to your employees suggesting they dare not ever say anything to challenge the President's preassumptions, that sentence does not bear out this memo. The message was sent and I am sure received by the CIA.
And I am very disturbed about something I saw last night, a show I was watching, and I cannot remember the name of it, but a former CIA person who has now left the agency and who was the person in charge of the unit searching for Osama bin Laden was on this program. This was the gentleman whose professional duty it was, for about 6 years, to lead the hunt for Osama bin Laden. In fact, he was so aggressive about it, for about 2 years they took him off the job because he was driving his superiors nuts because he was raising these red flags about Osama bin Laden. After September 11, they put him back on the post because they realized he was right about how serious this issue was.
He has now left the post, but last night he said there was absolutely no credible evidence of a substantive link between Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein. The number one guy in the employment of the Central Intelligence Agency last night told Americans there was no link. And for a year or more, the President, the Vice President, you name it, was running around America trying to create this impression in America's mind that there was a link in order to justify this war. That is disturbing to me.
Here is a guy that ought to be in the CIA challenging the White House's political decisions. He needs to be on the job rather than spit out of the agency like a watermelon seed. That is what they are doing. Anyone down there who is challenging the White House orthodoxy is getting kicked out.
This is not a good thing for our future decisions. We have tough decisions to make with regard to Iraq. This offensive in Fallujah, where heroes died, and they were heroic, but it is not the end of the trail. We have some tough, tough decisions.
I yield back to my colleague from Pennsylvania (Mr. Hoeffel).
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I want to follow up on what the gentleman said on the failure to successfully pursue any international involvement.
The bad news is that the President's plan is even unraveling with those who originally made some commitments to him. I read in the paper last week that Hungary has just announced that they will withdraw their troops. This was on top of withdrawals, either actual or announced, by Spain, 1,300 troops; Poland, 2,400 troops; the Netherlands, 1,400 troops; Thailand, 450 troops; the Dominican Republic, 322 troops; Nicaragua, 115 troops; Honduras, 370 troops; the Philippines, 51 troops; Norway, 155 troops; and New Zealand, 60. These are relatively small numbers, but I think it is a symptom of some bad decisionmaking. And the reason we talk about the past is the President is perpetuating his decisionmaking that created these conditions. He sees no reason ever to change.
We had a small coalition to start this, and now the small number of troops sent to help us are being withdrawn so our people are having to bear the burden of the fighting.
In Fallujah, this long after the fight, we had token Iraqis with us, and one of the reasons is the administration did not set up an infrastructure for training the Iraqis. Last month, 4 weeks ago, all that time since the original invasion, we still had only 40 percent of the trainers that the plan called for on day one to train Iraqis troops.
This thing has been botched, and the problem is the President is promoting people who are responsible for it, and we are getting deeper. One thing that bothers me, the gentleman mentioned the President knows how to use power. He should not use it in a way that lets politics dictate military decisions. It is pretty clear to any neutral observer that is what happened in Fallujah, because this spring we had an offensive into Fallujah. It was called off. Everybody knew we were going to have to go back in there, and it would seem to me it would make prudent sense to go back in there before we give thousands of insurgents time to build bunkers, accumulate their communications network. What did the President do? It is pretty clear. Not until after the election because there is going to be American blood flow.
One week after the election, all of a sudden we get the attack on Fallujah. Thirty-eight Americans die in the attack. It is pretty clear, and it is sad to say what happened here. There was a political decision to avoid this assault and, as a result, these insurgents had more and more time to fortify Fallujah. That was wrong by a Republican, a Democrat or anybody, to put our men in harm's way, to allow the enemy to consolidate their position, and we had to walk our people into those dens of fire.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, it troubles me because I am going to call some parents tomorrow who lost their 19-year-old son in that battle. I am not going to broach this with them. I do not know if the thought has crossed their mind, but I cannot reach any other conclusion. What possible reason was there to wait 6 months to go into Fallujah except the fact that there was an election on November 2, and then do it just a few days after the election. What possible reason could there be other than the fact of the election schedule?
We saw how horrendous the fighting was in Fallujah. Some of these tunnels were reinforced with steel, and we gave them 6 months to do that. People's heads should roll in the administration for that.
Again, what we hear tonight is the people responsible for that have been promoted into higher positions of authority. We are not going in the right direction in Iraq.
Unfortunately, let me note a reality in Iraq, we have to some degree obtained some degree of success over Fallujah, but just read what happened everywhere else.
In Samarra, we had a Fallujah-like assault several months ago, and we thought we were successful there, but this week the Iraqi police stations were raided by the insurgents, and 33 Iraqi soldiers and policemen were killed, injured 48.
In Ramadi, a slew of suicide car bombers wounded 20 U.S. Marines. Guerillas raided three police stations, killing 22 officers.
In Diyala Province, a governor's aide and two members of the Provincial Governing Council were killed, and bombs exploded across Baghdad at a Catholic Church and against U.S. convoys along the main road to the airport.
We still cannot secure the main road to the airport in Baghdad. We still are hiring the people responsible for these debacles and giving them promotions. It is wrong.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. I just want to say that there is a future in Iraq. The one thing we should recognize and we are in it together, Democrats and Republicans, whether we voted for this war or not, and we all have responsibilities to try to make tough decisions about what to do now. Our discussion of the past does not mean to suggest that we can walk away in the next 24 hours from Iraq, but I think what we are saying is that we need people that we can trust with decision-making in Iraq, that we will have a rational, decision-making process that is based on the facts rather than just hopes and wishes.
I remember just even 6, 8 months ago listening to the Vice President talking about how things were going so remarkably well in Iraq and we had the Mission Accomplished incident. We had Ambassador Bremer telling us and Wolfowitz telling us that this entire thing was going to be financed with oil revenues from Iraq. He told us, to Congress, I remember this very well. He said, "There won't be a single taxpayer dollar associated with this project." How many billion are we in it now? It is hard to tell.
As the gentleman from Ohio pointed out, the one thing we know about every billion dollars this President has spent, it has been of my grandchildren's money. He has not asked any sacrifice of us. Winston Churchill said, "All I have to offer you is blood, sweat, toil and tears." This President has said, "Just go shopping." That is how he has approached this. So we are asking this horrific sacrifice of our men and women in Fallujah tonight. But this President wants to keep cutting taxes for the wealthiest folks, his friends. That is how he handles it. He is the only President in American history who has insisted that in the middle of war when our warriors are out there risking their lives, he does not want to risk anything except his tax cuts, and he will not even risk that.
He is the only American President who has ever done major tax cuts in a war. I would assert that he is in the panoply of those who are the most economically and morally irresponsible. This is a moral issue to ask our soldiers to go die in Fallujah and go back here in the homestead and try to boost his popularity by giving tax breaks to the rich.
That is a moral issue. And there has been a lot of talk about moral values in this last election.
I want to say, I look at that as a violation of the values that I hold and I think a majority of my constituents hold. We ought to be in this together as Americans, and this President does not want any American to be in it except those on the frontline because he does not want people to know how costly war is. And it is not cheap. And that is a moral failure.
And if we raise our voices on occasion, it is because there is cause for anger here. And there is cause for anger when I hear in the last week that this President gives promotions. There is not a guy who has lost his extra vacation day in this administration as a result of the debacle in Iraq. What kind of message is that to send on personal accountability when a guy who told us that it was not going to cost the taxpayers a dollar is sitting fat and happy as the Secretary of Defense, has never got his hand even slapped, did not even get a memo in his personnel file, and his buddy takes over the National Security Council and had the President tell us something that was a blatant falsehood to start this war? And now we are going to make calls, all four of us, to family members who lost people in Fallujah. That is a moral insult. It is not just bad public policy.
