Public Statements
Day After Election Letter
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Nov. 3, 2004
Location: Unknown


Title: Day After Election Letter
Date: 11/3/2004
Location: Unknown
Friend,
As I type this, George Bush is talking to the White House Press Corps about his plans for the next four years.
There is hardly a more grating sound to hear. But it's also the sound that brought us all together in common cause over the last several months. In sixteen years in public life I have never been so inspired to further effort as I have been by you and our allies during this campaign. When I saw my friends out in the rain rounding up votes yesterday, when I saw my friends making thousands of phone calls, when I saw them writing checks that were hard to write, I was moved by the recognition that I was in the company of heroes, and knew that our endeavors were just and necessary.
For this, for you, I am deeply grateful.
It is important to realize efforts did not go unrewarded. If the current trends continue, Chris Gregoire will be our next governor, in part due to our efforts. With our help, Craig Pridemore and Brian Weinstein are heading for the State Senate, retaking the majority for the Democrats. As a result of our work, Derek Kilmer is heading for the State House, and my friend Kevin Van De Wege may yet pull off a tremendous win in Port Townsend. We must continue to fight. We do not have a choice. The fact is that you and I have a responsibility in the days ahead. We must act as beacons of inspiration and hope in our respective communities. The fact is that we are all leaders and it is incumbent on us to lead when it is hardest, when it is darkest, when it is most necessary. You can be assured that I will not back off one inch from our principles - protecting the environment, upholding a woman's right to choose, and enacting a sensible policy in Iraq. I am confident you will stand with me.
This fight is so important, I have decided to NOT shut down our campaign during the off-year. Our efforts to elect representatives who reflect our values and priorities will persist throughout the new year and beyond. Our weekly reports from the other Washington will continue as well as the opportunity to get involved in important issues and causes.
We need to find and articulate ideas which will capture America's imagination for the next great day of challenge. Here is one - we are going to show America our New Apollo Energy Plan, which will break our addiction to Middle Eastern oil, address global warming, and create three million jobs in the new energy industry here in America. We are going find every venue possible to advocate for this vision in the coming months and make sure America knows who is for it and who is sticking their heads in the sand against it.
When folks suggest that our loss is related to matters of faith, let them know that our plan has a simple foundation - that we have an obligation to be stewards of God's greatest creation, the planet Earth. What could more faithful than standing up to prevent global warming from permanently destroying that grandest of the Creator's handiwork? This does not mean, of course, that we will not be amenable to any epiphanies George Bush has which would allow us to find common cause with him. Should he decide to honor the commitment he made in the year 2000 to address global warming, we will welcome his conversion and find a common plan. But have no illusions - this election result is hardly likely to bring the grace of humility to George Bush. That is why we must stand solid, like a stonewall, and remain comrades in arms in the days, months, and years to come.
In closing, let me say that I am deeply honored by your support in the challenging days of the last few years. Do not lose sight of the fact that our efforts to help candidates around the state did bear fruit, and that we have also brought thousands of new people into the political process. We will have new allies in part because our efforts. If hope is best represented by a flame, let me tell you that mine burns hotter than ever. Shortly, I will be inviting you to join me and others for a discussion on where we go from here. Please stay tuned, and rest up. We have unfinished business to tend to. Thanks Friend. Let's go get 'em.
Very truly yours,
Jay Inslee
