Public Statements
Federal News Service - Hearing fo the Oversight and Investigations and Domestic and International Monetary Policy... - Transcript
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 30, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service September 30, 2004 Thursday
SECTION: PRESS CONFERENCE OR SPEECH
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS AND DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY POLICY, TRADE AND TECHNOLOGY SUBCOMMITTEES OF THE HOUSE FINANCIAL SERVICES COMMITTEE
TOPIC: COMBATTING INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST FINANCING
CHAIRED BY: REPRESENTATIVE PETER KING (R-NY) AND REPRESENTATIVE SUE KELLY (R-NY)
WITNESSES: JUAN ZARATE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF TREASURY FOR TERRORIST FINANCING; ANTHONY WAYNE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR ECONOMIC AND BUSINESS AFFAIRS
LOCATION: 2128 RAYBURN HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
REP. KING: (Sounds gavel.) Good morning. This joint hearing of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, and the Subcommittee on Oversight will come to order.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
REP. INSLEE: Thank you very much. I wanted to ask you about some information I received to see if it's accurate or not. I was looking at a letter obtained in a piece called "Money Laundering Alert" by Samuel Bodman, and that revealed that OFAC as of May '04 had an average of 21.43 employees dedicated to enforcing Cuba country problems-that's broadly speaking-an average of 16 employees to track Iraqi terrorists and locate the missing assets of Saddam Hussein; and 16 to monitor al Qaeda. Are those numbers accurate, roughly accurate, grossly distorted?HS FIN SVC/JNT SCTS/TERROR FINANCE PAGE 26 09/30/2002 .STX
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
REP. INSLEE: Well, I appreciate all that work, but the ratio of the people killed-or Americans killed by al Qaeda to the Americans killed by Fidel in the last 10 years is 2,900 to 1, and the ratio of your inspectors chasing Fidel, people going down to Castro, is about 1.3 to 1. Those ratios, to me and my constituents make no sense whatsoever, given the emergent nature we're in, where Osama bin Laden is loose, and you're not chasing him with the assets that we're paying you to chase him with. You're out there fiddling around with what's going on and tourists going to Cuba rather than chasing a guy that killed 3,000 Americans. And I'm just telling, from one district of this country, and I only have one district I represent, that is a gross misapplication of resources.
Now, it seems to me-I understand you have statutory obligations-but it seems to me in the nature of the threat we face today, you would have a ratio of about 3,000 to 1 chasing down al Qaeda assets rather than people who want to go play ping pong in Cuba. Now, tell me why my assessment is not accurate.
MR. ZARATE: Chairman, first of all, I would hope that --
REP. INSLEE: I'm not the chairman, I'm just a minor member of the committee.
MR. ZARATE: Excuse me, Congressman, with respect to the numbers, I would hope that you and others would certainly go back to your constituents with the real numbers and the real fact that we are devoting, not just within OFAC but within FinCEN, within our office, within the State Department, other parts of the U.S. government, considerable resources and an over-abundance of resources to do precisely what you and everyone else wants to do.
REP. INSLEE: Could I stop you just for a second, because I want to make sure that I understand your answer. The best numbers that I have seen are from this May '04 letter that said there's 21.43 employees dedicated to enforcing Cuba sanctions and 16 to monitoring al Qaeda. Now, if those numbers are not accurate, could you give me the numbers, please? What numbers-could you give me the number of people chasing Cuban tourists to the number chasing Osama bin Laden's money? Could you give me some numbers?
MR. ZARATE: Congressman, I will be very happy to get you the exact numbers. Those numbers fluctuate, in large part, because we switch and rotate analysts to deal with emerging issues. For example, emerging terrorist financing concerns in East Asia or North Africa, but we will be very happy to get that back to you. Congressman, I do want to indicate, though, that with respect to the Cuba program, the bulk of those resources are used to license individuals who want to go down to travel, to do business in Cuba. So part of the function is not, as you construe, a function of tracking Castro's assets but, in fact, providing a service to the American people to allow the kind of interchange that Congress and the administration wants and needs us to do. So I think that construal is a bit unfair.
REP. INSLEE: Well, let me just give you two comments. One, I won't be satisfied and, more importantly, I don't think my constituents will be satisfied until the ratio of those numbers is about 9 to 1 at least-number one. And, number two, you could help us by removing some of the necessity, by removing some of these travel restrictions to Cuba, so instead of hiring people in bureaucracies to push paper to go to Cuba, we can change our policy and we can direct the national resources of this country to protecting people from getting killed by al Qaeda. And I'm just telling you that is a much higher priority at this moment in our national life, and I encourage you to think about that issue, and the next time we talk maybe you'll have a better ratio and I'll feel a little more secure. Thank you.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
REP. INSLEE: Thank you very much. I wanted to follow up what we were talking about earlier about trying to figure out where this policy originated regarding use of resources in Cuba relative to al Qaeda. And I just tumbled on something kind of interesting. In 2003 -- this is according to a report released to the Senate Committee on Finance-that OFAC, at a cost of $3 million had an average of 21 full-time employees working on Cuban sanctions-triple the number of employees it had on the program at the beginning of 2002. In the same report, OFAC revealed that it employed no Arabic interpreters, and that it had only two employees who spoke Arabic, quote, "at a level of moderate proficiency." And this is apparently in response-in October 2003, President Bush began an initiative to further strengthen the enforcement of the Cuban travel ban by instructing the Department of Homeland Security to, quote, "increase inspections of travelers and shipments to and from Cuba," close quote.
Shortly after that, the DHS issued a press release saying that it will, quote, "step up enforcement of travel restrictions to Cuba that are already in place, using intelligence and investigative resources to identify travelers or business engaged in activities that circumvent the embargo," close quote.
Now, from that it appears to me that the president of the United States is the one responsible for making a decision that instead of putting additional resources into the hunt for al Qaeda and its money has taken the resources that could have gone there and put it in this effort in Cuba. Is that generally an accurate assessment of who's responsible for this prioritization?
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
REP. INSLEE: Well, I appreciate what you had to say, but I don't think you are answered my question. I wanted to ask who is responsible for making this decision. And as best as I can tell, the president of the United States directed you to increase your spending involving Cuba sanctions and Cuban tourism policies. Instead of taking that money that went into that Cuba-and shifting it to the hunt for al Qaeda, the president decided to put it into Cuba. Now, if it wasn't the president who decided that, to do it, who did it? Could you give me a name? Who did it? Who made this decision?
MR. ZARATE: Congressman, the president established the commission for assistance to establish a free Cuba, which was an inter-agency commission led by the State Department to establish policies to promote, both in the short term and the long term, the ability to bring peace and prosperity and freedom to the Cuban policy.
REP. INSLEE: Well, let me --
MR. ZARATE: Congressman --
REP. INSLEE: I'm sorry, go ahead.
MR. ZARATE: If I may. The reality is that we can walk and chew gum at the same time. As I mentioned, we have 29 sanctions programs that we administer. Forty percent of our resources are devoted to terrorist financing within OFAC; again, OFAC just being one office within the Treasury Department within the whole of the U.S. government.
Thirty-five percent of our OFAC resources are devoted to country programming. Twenty percent are devoted to our drug trafficking program, which has been incredibly important and effective in dealing with the Cali cartel in Colombia, most recently with a very important designation on that.
REP. INSLEE: Let me ask you-what I assume you're saying is that we've maxed out. We've got all the resources we could possibly use to hunt down al Qaeda. And I have a very difficult time believing that, because between 1994 and 2003, OFAC brought 4,301 civil penalty enforcement actions regarding Cuba and two regarding terrorism.
Now, I guess I should ask you specifically, are you telling me that you couldn't use effectively additional resources to try to cut off the funds from going to terrorist activities, including al Qaeda? Is that what you're telling me? You couldn't use another person effectively?
MR. ZARATE: Congressman, I can't speak to what happened in the prior administration. But what I can tell you is that this administration has made the combating of terrorist financing a priority. The secretary of the Treasury and the secretary of State have made it a priority and we've done everything possible.
We can always use more resources to do everything we're doing --
REP. INSLEE: Well, I hope --
MR. ZARATE: -- whether it's implementing effectively and responsibly the Cuba sanction program, the Burmese sanction program, the Syrian sanction program, the Zimbabwe sanction program, or the drug trafficking program. We do that as efficiently and effectively and judiciously as possible.
MR. INSLEE: Well, we had --
REP. KELLY: Thank you, Mr. Inslee..
REP. INSLEE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you.
