Public Statements
Marriage Protection Amendment
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 30, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


MARRIAGE PROTECTION AMENDMENT -- (House of Representatives - September 30, 2004)
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 ½ minutes to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee), a very distinguished supporter of civil rights and human rights.
(Mr. INSLEE asked and was given permission to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, have my colleagues ever noticed how reverential, how worshipful people are when they go over to the archives and they file in front of the Constitution? Have my colleagues seen what is in their eyes? Absolute worship of the U.S. Constitution. I think there is one reason for that, because they understand the Constitution does not belong just to us; it belongs to the ages. They realize for that reason they want us to be cautious and conservative about locking into the Constitution something for a fluid America. There are some lessons in history that show that is the right attitude.
In 1912, Jack Johnson, an African American heavyweight boxing champion, had the temerity to marry a white woman. That offended the vast majority of Americans at the time. And as a result, a Congressman came down to this Chamber, and he introduced a constitutional amendment to make it illegal for States to allow an African American to marry a white person. And Congressman Seaborn Anderson Roddenbery stood where I am standing and said in 1912: "Intermarriage between whites and blacks is repulsive and averse to every sentiment of pure American spirit. It is abhorrent and repugnant to the very principles of a pure Saxon government."
Now that statement seems a bit unbelievable in 2004, but it was the majority opinion in 1912.
Now, I am not suggesting that these issues are equivalent, but I am suggesting that we ought to be real slow before we put discrimination to prevent States to make their own decisions about employment and retirement benefits for themselves into the Constitution. Where would this country have been if majority sentiment had prevailed in 1912 and discrimination had been put permanently in the United States Constitution?
But there is a more commonsense reason for rejecting this amendment. Anybody who is thinking about voting for this amendment, I would ask you to come down to the well and look at the five words that are carved on the rostrum of the House of Representatives.
There are five words that are carved here, and of all the words that we could have chosen to carve on to the rostrum, do my colleagues know what those five words are? Union, liberty, peace, justice, and the fifth one may surprise some of my colleagues.
The fifth value is tolerance. Tolerance is the value that was selected to put on here, and tolerance is as American as apple pie. Tolerance is carved into the rostrum of the U.S. House of Representatives and intolerance should not be carved into the U.S. Constitution.
Reject this injury to the Constitution. Reject this amendment.
