Public Statements
Iraq Watch
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 22, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


IRAQ WATCH -- (House of Representatives - September 22, 2004)
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will yield.
Mr. DELAHUNT. I yield to the gentleman from the State of Washington, a regular member and cochair of Iraq Watch.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I want to follow up on what Republican Senator CHUCK HAGEL said, because I think it is accurate. He said, discussing the situation in Iraq, "It is beyond pitiful. It is beyond embarrassing. It is now in the zone of dangerous." And I want to reiterate that that is not just rhetoric; that is reality.
The reason I know it is reality is because we just lost a man from Lynwood, Washington, last week, Corporal Steven Rintamaki, 21 years of age, who will never be coming home, killed in action in Iraq while serving proudly and with distinction in Iraq. Yes, indeed, this is in the zone of dangerous. And this country deserves an administration who will be forthright and truthful and is not looking through this situation with rose-colored glasses.
What CHUCK HAGEL said, that we are now in the zone of dangerous, I think we can say in spades that that is the situation.
I learned something tonight, Mr. Speaker, that is so disturbing I just have to share it. Osama bin Laden, who is still at large somewhere in the world tonight, after the President told us he would get him dead or alive; he is still at large. The al Qaeda network is still functioning and now attacking our troops in Iraq. And we have been very concerned for some time that this administration, in its action in Iraq, has taken its eye off the ball of destroying the al Qaeda network and diverted resources and attention into Iraq, thereby increasing the risk that al Qaeda would remain a threat. And, indeed, Osama bin Laden is alive tonight and is a threat.
I learned something tonight. We knew about the administration moving resources from Afghanistan that could be used in the hunt for Osama bin Laden. The Predator aircraft, the drone that moves around, they moved that to Iraq before we got done looking for Osama bin Laden. We know that the administration has more people checking on people going to Cuba as tourists than they do trying to interdict monies going to al Qaeda. We know about those diversions in this prioritization.
But let me tell you about one I learned about tonight. NBC news today reported that the administration three times had the opportunity to take out terrorist Abu Musab al Zarqawi who, right now, could be associated with some of the beheadings we have seen, actually, his network. Three times the President quashed efforts to take out Zarqawi before the war in Iraq started because they did not want to diminish or undercut their argument of why they needed to go to Iraq.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. If the gentleman from Massachusetts will continue to yield.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. In June, according to NBC news, in June 2002, the Pentagon drafted plans to attack a camp Zarqawi personally was using with cruise missiles and air strikes. The plan was killed by the White House because they did not want to undercut their argument publicly that we had to go into Iraq.
Again, 4 months later, Zarqawi planned to use ricin, this deadly poison, in terrorist attacks in Europe. The Pentagon drew up a second plan to go after Zarqawi. The White House killed it again because it would interfere with the action, the public message that we had to go to Iraq.
In January 2003, the pentagon drew up still another attack plan, and for the third time, the White House killed it because "military officials insist their case for attacking Zarqawi's operation was air tight. But the administration feared destroying the terrorist's camp in Iraq could undercut its case for war against Saddam."
If this is true, this is a gross dereliction of duty. We have now seen multiple instances where this administration has moved forces that could have been used to destroy the people that killed almost 3,000 Americans on September 11 and moved them in this effort to go into Iraq under the pretense that there were weapons of mass destruction and under the pretense that al Qaeda was responsible for September 11, both of which have been shown to be false.
This bears scrutiny and investigation, and it demonstrates why we need a new fresh approach in the war against the fundamental nihilists who are still out there planning to attack this Nation.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. DELAHUNT. I yield to the gentleman from Washington.
Mr. INSLEE. It seems to me we are at a Y in the road; and as Yogi Berra said, when you are at a Y in the road, take it. But this administration is refusing to recognize the need for a change in policy in Iraq. Their message to the American people is more of the same. Same old, same old. We are doing just fine. It is hunky-dory in Iraq. So let us keep doing what we have done here for the last year and a half.
I want to suggest there are four things that need a major change in our Iraq policy or we will face certain failure and more deaths, as my constituent did last week.
Four things: number one, we have got to have a meaningful, timely training program to train the Iraqi forces so that they can take responsibility for their own country, which is the only way this is going to be successful. What do we find this administration has done in regard to retraining the Iraqi Army? We are now a year and a half after the invasion of Iraq, a time period where we knew, if somebody was thinking about it, that we were going to have massive retraining needs to train about 250,000 troops. That was going to take some work to do that. One would think people would figure that out. But it is a year and a half after the invasion of Iraq, and this administration still has less than 40 percent of even the people responsible for training the Iraqis working for us to get this job done. We only have half the capability, according to an article of September 20; 230 of the 600 we knew were going to be necessary are on the job.
This administration has dropped the ball on a fundamental thing that is required for success in Iraq, which is to train their security forces. And why did they do this? I know why they did it. Because they told us we were going to be greeted with open arms, rose petals, and the Iraqi equivalent of champagne. Why would we have to train all these soldiers and police officers? It was going to be a cake walk.
Mr. DELAHUNT. And, Mr. Speaker, we would not have to pay for it.
Mr. INSLEE. And we would not have to pay for it either, Mr. Speaker. So here we are a year and a half after the invasion, this administration still has less than half the infrastructure we need to get this job done. So that is number one that needs a significant change in policy.
Second, we need an administration who will say we have got to have elections sooner rather than later. When we had a brief window where we were not getting bombed and RPG'd for about 3 months early in this campaign, we had a chance for elections. But the President sent Mr. Bremer over there, and he put the kibosh on elections. Sistani wanted elections. They would not allow them. And here we are in this pickle.
And this is why this is important. They are telling us, Mr. Allawi is going to tell us tomorrow, that we are going to have great elections on January 31 in Iraq. That is great except for one problem: there are huge swaths of Iraq today, in late September, that are not under the control of the Iraqi government. Fallujah, Ramadi. We heard about a battle a couple of miles south of Baghdad yesterday. How are they going to have elections to get this job done? They are not prepared to get it done, and the only way we are going to do this is to only have about 50 percent of the country voting.
Mr. DELAHUNT. Mr. Speaker, reclaiming my time, does the gentleman know what they call those large swaths of territory?
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman would further yield, those large swaths are called no-go zones. And that means that nobody from the Iraqi government or we go to.
What is happening tonight with those no-go zones? The Iraqi insurgents are planning to kill Marines and building up their capability of doing it, and we are not going after them. I am concerned, I am concerned, that one of the reasons we have adopted these no-go zones is because this administration wants no casualties, which none of us want ever, but he particularly may not want them before November 2. We never want casualties ever, but to allow these insurgents to build their forces which they are later going to throw back in our faces and shoot at our Marines and soldiers is most troublesome.
There is a third thing that needs to change, and I want to note it. We need to get busy allowing the Iraqis to rebuild Iraq. If we listen to what these insurgents are saying, they are angry because they do not have electricity, and they blame us for it. Frankly, I do not think they should be blaming us for it. They should be blaming Saddam Hussein for it. But they do blame us. We need to get a reconstruction program that is working. And the reason it is not working, the reason we have spent less than 10 percent of the money that we voted on a bipartisan basis on a variety of occasions to apply, the reason that money has not been spent, $18 billion have been appropriated, less than $2 billion has been spent. Why have they not spent the money? For this reason: this administration has insisted that instead of hiring Iraqis to do the construction and Iraqi businesses and Iraqi employees, they want to hire their pals at Halliburton; and they insisted that American contractors, many of whom happen to be significantly connected to the administration, do this.
And the Iraqis are the ones who are unemployed.
Those are the people we should be hiring to get this job done. Every Iraqi that gets a job is one less Iraqi willing to join the insurgency. But, no, this administration wanted to make sure Halliburton got the money.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. DELAHUNT. I yield to the gentleman from Washington.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I believe the reason that Halliburton is doing that is that they do not want to deal with the difficulty of hiring Iraqis. With all due respect, we have to get the Iraqis involved in their own economy, or they are never going to be on board in a new government. And this administration, in their lust, in their lust, to continue their relationship with Halliburton, has squandered this opportunity to get Iraqis involved in their own reconstruction. And it has hurt us big time in the insurgency that is now raging across wide swaths of Iraq.
Mr. DELAHUNT. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman means no-go zones.
Mr. INSLEE. No-go zones, Mr. Speaker. And the problem is the no-go zones are not going to be no-go zones permanently. At some point we are going to have to ask American sons and daughters to go into Fallujah, and they are going to be fired at by insurgents. And the problem is those insurgents tonight are building bunkers and recruiting and building taps and they are building car bombs. They think many of them are assembled in Fallujah and driven around the country, and we are not rousting those groups out. And we are going to have to face their guns when they are emboldened and empowered and in a tougher position. That is terrible military doctrine. It is a mistake. And it is going to cost American lives. And I think that it is one of those things that needs change.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. If the gentleman will yield, you mentioned a pretty explosive word, which is "incompetence." When we have our sons and daughters at risk for their lives, over 1,000 of whom we have lost now, it is a pretty serious charge to suggest that an administration has been incompetent in the prosecution of this mission.
So I just want to quote a Republican Senator in this regard, or two Republican Senators in regards to points two and three that I talked about in saying that we need a major change in American policy in Iraq.
On point two, the issue of rebuilding Iraq, when Senator Lugar, Republican Senator, was asked----
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. McCotter). The Chair would remind Members to refrain from improper references to the Senate or its Members.
Mr. INSLEE. Well, Mr. Speaker, let me rephrase. When a prominent Republican individual who served in public office in a post that involves a 6-year term was asked why only $1 billion of $18 billion appropriated last year for Iraqi reconstruction, why less than 10 percent of that had actually invested in Iraq, he said, "Well, this is the incompetence of the administration."
"This is the incompetence of the administration." That is what this has been. We need someone competent running the operation in Iraq.
Point three, the point we have been saying, that our military people are going to be endangered as a result of not training people and getting into these no-go zones, another prominent Republican, who once recently ran for President and suffered grievously at the hands of a fellow Republican in South Carolina, said "it was a major error in allowing insurgents to keep control of the City of Fallujah after vowing to oust them."
The same quote: "As Napoleon said, if you say you are going to take Vienna, you will take Vienna," this unnamed prominent Republican person in a 6-year post said.
The fact of the matter is, these are major policy failures of this administration. It is costing us in lives, and we need a change.
Unfortunately, this administration has one prominent rule in Iraq, and an economic policy, for that matter: Do not bother me with the facts. I told you guys it was going to be roses. I told you we were going to be treated as liberators. Despite the fact we have this horrendous problem in Iraq, we are not going to change our policy one wit."
We need a fresh policy in Iraq, and, one way or another, we have got to get it.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will yield, there is another aspect of this $87 billion that we need to point out, of whose money the President wanted to spend. He wants to spend our grandchildren's money. Because every single one of those $87 billion he committed to Iraq, which had to be spent in some sense, but instead of us paying for it and dealing with it with taxes, he wanted, and he consciously decided to make it all deficit spending. We had a proposal to pay for it so that our grandchildren would not have that deficit spending obligation on them.
Now, why is this? I think this is symptomatic of why we need a new administration with a fresh policy. Winston Churchill said, all I have to offer you is blood, sweat, toil, and tears. This President said, you can fight this battle on the cheap. It will be sugar candy, roses, and champaign corks all the way. And as a result of that, we got $87 billion deficit spending, 1,000 dead, and a silent draft that is going on now drafting our people to serve longer times than they really did sign up for when they went into the military. That is why everybody in this chamber is hearing stories about 50-year old people who left their career for a year, came back, now have to go back for another year, and goodness knows how many years, because they have not committed the troops that are necessary to get this job done like General Shinseki told them.
This President wanted to fight this war on the cheap. It has cost us in lives, it has cost us in deficit spending, and we need a new policy. We do not say this just to be critical; we say this to get a new policy in Iraq. Unless we get that, we are heading into deep, deep trouble.
