Public Statements
Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of 2004
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 14, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


LAWSUIT ABUSE REDUCTION ACT OF 2004 -- (House of Representatives - September 14, 2004)
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee).
(Mr. INSLEE asked and was given permission to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, there is a fatal defect in this bill, and that fatal defect is that it would essentially refuse to give American citizens relief if they were injured by a foreign corporation's clear and palpable negligence. The defect in this bill is that, if you live in Seattle, you are hurt in Portland by a failure of a Tokyo corporation, this bill says you cannot bring a claim anywhere in the United States against a Japanese corporation that injured you unless that corporation happens to have a retail outlet in the State where you live or where the accident happened.
And this is a very serious matter. If one lives in Seattle, if they are injured in Portland, and the product that injures them is made in Germany or Japan or England, they are out of luck. They are now shielding out-of-U.S. corporations.
I understand the Republican Party's infatuation with outsourcing, but I do not understand why they would expose Americans and say they cannot bring a claim against somebody that makes a foreign car or foreign construction equipment that injures them.
If my colleagues think I am just sort of blowing smoke here, I want to read from the Congressional Research Service memo on this subject. It says: "However, if a defendant's principal place of business was not in the United States, then this option," meaning suing here, "could not be exercised in the United States court. Consequently, it would appear that in certain circumstances, the United States citizen or resident injured in this country would not have a judicial forum in the United States in which to seek relief."
What this bill is, is the Foreign Corporation Protection Act. And for the life of me, I cannot figure out why they would want on the Republican side of the aisle to deny American citizens an avenue in an American court under the American judicial system some right of protection when a foreign corporation hurts them. What is the possible rationale for that?
We need to fix this or reject it.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. TURNER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee).
(Mr. INSLEE asked and was given permission to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, we do have an honest debate and an honest difference of opinion between the two parties here and it is rather stark.
Democrats believe that if a Japanese car manufactured in Japan, the brakes fail and injured you or your family and it is through negligence of the manufacturer, you ought to be able to have redress in an American court.
The Republicans want to outsource that to the Japanese courts and make you fly to Tokyo to file your lawsuit.
If a German car blows up and burns you and your family to a crisp, Democrats believe you ought to be able to go to the American judicial system and have relief. Republicans believe you should outsource your claims to the German courts. But it gets worse than that.
If a French car fails and injures your family, Democrats believe you should go to an American court and get American justice. Republicans believe you can outsource that even to the French. We do not even have french fries in our cafeteria any more, but you would be happy to send Americans to the French judicial system.
Now, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Smith) took issue with what I was saying about this claim, and I want to explain to you why this is.
First, I want to tell you that the Congressional Research Service, the bipartisan, nonpartisan referee of these matters, agrees with exactly what I have said when they said, "Consequently it would appear that in certain circumstances a United States citizen or resident injured in this country would not have a judicial forum in the United States in which to seek relief."
The jury is closed and out. The verdict is in. Your policies have outsourced a lot of jobs, but we do not understand why you want to outsource judicial activity for American citizens. Now, why is that?
It is because there is an error apparently in drafting. I do not know if you really intended this but this is what you accomplished, and the reason is even though the statute, and excuse me if I am technical for a moment but this is an important issue. It is Americans' judicial rights. Even where the statute suggests on its face that it would allow an American to sue in any one of three places, where you live or where you are hurt or where the principal place of the business is that hurt you, there is a constitutional principle that says if that corporation does not have a minimal contact where you live or where the injury occurs you cannot sue under the United States Constitution in either one of those circumstances.
That is why the Congressional Research Service, the bipartisan or nonpartisan Congressional Research Service, has concluded that the Republican bill wants to outsource our judicial system to the German, French and Japanese judicial systems. That makes no sense whatsoever, and, frankly, I would invite a response to this as to why you would want to do that.
The Japanese, they build some okay cars, not as good as American cars of course, but their judicial system is not one that we should have to be exposed to in America. Americans should have access to the American judicial system. We should pass this substitute.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. TURNER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee).
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I have tremendous respect for the chairman but in this case the Congressional Research Service is right. Here is where they are right. It is a constitutional principle that a court in Washington, for instance, does not have jurisdiction over a Japanese corporation if they do not have minimal contact with Washington; for instance, if they do not have a retail outlet in Washington. So if a Washington resident is injured by a Japanese car, and they have got an enormous retail outlet down in California but their principal place of business, which is the language you chose in this statute, is in Tokyo, you are out of luck as an American. And I am betting on CRS on this one.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
Mr. TURNER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee).
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I have tremendous respect for the chairman but in this case the Congressional Research Service is right. Here is where they are right. It is a constitutional principle that a court in Washington, for instance, does not have jurisdiction over a Japanese corporation if they do not have minimal contact with Washington; for instance, if they do not have a retail outlet in Washington. So if a Washington resident is injured by a Japanese car, and they have got an enormous retail outlet down in California but their principal place of business, which is the language you chose in this statute, is in Tokyo, you are out of luck as an American. And I am betting on CRS on this one.
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
