Public Statements
Iraq Watch
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 13, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


IRAQ WATCH -- (House of Representatives - September 13, 2004)
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Kline). Under the Speaker's announced policy of January 7, 2003, the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Strickland) is recognized for 60 minutes.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I would like to talk tonight about three types of amnesia that I am afraid are infecting the executive branch's policy, and those three symptoms of amnesia are makings us less safe.
This weekend I went to the VFW Post in Redmond, Washington, where a group was holding a car wash to raise money to send incidentals, CDs and telephones and suntan lotion and the like, to our service personnel in Iraq. The thing that was interesting is the people who were there, including the wives and sisters and fathers of the people who are serving in Iraq, and one woman who lost her son in Iraq who came out to the car wash to help her fallen son's former colleagues in Iraq, and what was amazing to me, while these people are pulling together, there is this kind of amnesia developing to forget the loss and casualties we are suffering in Iraq. It is slipping from page 1 to page 3 to page 12 to outside of our consciousness. Frankly, I think the President could do a better job of reminding us of the loss we are suffering in Iraq rather than trying to belittle it or say it is a minimal thing.
I have heard people argue that a thousand people lost in America is not that many. I just challenge for them to say that if they had been to the car wash and talked to the mother that I did. One person who did not have to die in combat is too many.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DELAHUNT. But he is probably one of the most skillful political minds in the country and just recently he made the statement, if you vote for the other candidate you will die. That is basically what he said. A vote for KERRY is a vote for terrorists. Nobody accepts that. But that is the need to make the link, because he was wrong, he cannot admit he was wrong. Do you remember David Kay, who they sent out to learn and to find out where the weapons of mass destruction were, came in front of a Senate committee and said, we were all wrong. This individual, this Vice President, must have blanched because it did not suit his world view, his political agenda.
Mr. INSLEE. There was a very startling occurrence that happened yesterday in this regard. Secretary of State Powell said there was no link to 9/11 to Saddam Hussein. Yet the Vice President continues in this effort.
