Public Statements
Iraq Watch
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 6, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


IRAQ WATCH -- (House of Representatives - July 06, 2004)
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Gingrey). Under the Speaker's announced policy of January 7, 2003, the gentleman from Hawaii (Mr. Abercrombie) is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the minority leader.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Well, I appreciate this, and I would like to contrast the phony, alleged sovereignty in Iraq with the real sovereignty and democracy in the United States; and this is a thought I had while sitting on the West Lawn of the Capitol watching the fireworks that were so spectacular on July 4th over the Washington Monument. And as I was looking at the fireworks, I was thinking about some of our work on the Iraq Watch, because the thought struck me that the reason we became a democracy, and such a strong one, is we had people who were rebellious and questioning and demanding against their government.
We had a bunch of people in the 18th century who were rebellious to King George, who abused the trust that this monarch had of his people, who was not honest with his people, who was fraudulent with his people, that got his people into difficult positions without their consent. And the thought struck me that that rebellious, demanding, questioning attitude that the patriots had that started this country is the same attitude of folks who are questioning this President who has not told the truth about the American people that started this war; and we ended up a sovereign country because we are demanding.
And I just note that as a theme tonight of our Iraq Watch that we demand the truth from our government, and the truth is that this phony allegation of sovereignty in Iraq is what I might call rose petal number 512, because this entire Iraq policy has not been based on reality. It has been based on a series of rose petals. Number one was we were told by Mr. Wolfowitz, rose petals literally would be strewn at our feet. Rose petal number two is when we were told that when we just caught Uday Hussein, the insurgency would stop. Then we were told when the other Hussein brother was caught, the insurgency would stop.
Rose petal number 300, I think was when they said Saddam was caught, the insurgency would collapse. Rose petal number 412 was when they said all of these people who are doing violent acts in Iraq, they are just a bunch of foreigners, and as soon as we get the foreigners out, it is not the Iraqi people who were upset we were running their country, it is just these people from Syria.
Turned out yesterday we found, like, 5 percent of the people in our custody are outside of Iraq. The problem we have got is some Iraqis we are battling with are another rose petal. And this is the ultimate rose petal that this administration is trying to foist on us, the American people, that unfortunately is not going to work. We lost three Marines today following the "sovereignty" rose petal.
The fact is we have got to face reality in Iraq. This administration has never faced reality in Iraq. This administration has consistently given us misinformation; and until this administration changes its attitude, or the people in the White House change, we are going to be in trouble in Iraq.
You know, look at the situation. We keep hearing about, oh, there is nothing but good news in Iraq, about all these rebuilding programs, and we have people who are working very hard, people in the military are working hard. I am sure some of the people at Halliburton are working hard, too. It is too bad they are charging us twice as much for meals as they are supposed to be, but I am sure they are working hard.
But when an assessment was done, I believe by the GAO, they found that less than 2 percent, less than 2 percent of the reconstruction projects that we voted in October to fund have been done; 140 out of 2,300 reconstruction projects have been done. Electricity is still not working in Baghdad as much as it was for the average person before the war.
Yet we continue to get these rose petals that the administration tries to feed us, and it is this type of attitude based on falsehood and mysticism that have got us in this problem.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I think it is important to ask the question why we are in this fatal, mortal, disastrous situation in Iraq. Why are we in this situation where we are calling up people whose military service was essentially over? Why? We have put two of the training brigades that act as the enemy at various forts around this country, they pose as the enemy, and that is why we have such a well-trained Army. We have three of those Army units, and two of them have now been sent to Iraq to fight the Iraqi insurgents. We are not training our soldiers adequately.
Why are we in this debacle? I want to suggest it is just a continuation of the movie "South Pacific." Those World War II veterans remember that there was a song called "Happy Talk," happy, happy, happy talk; and that is what this administration has planned a war over was happy talk.
Look at Paul Wolfowitz, the Assistant Secretary of Defense who came to us and told us that the American taxpayers would not have to pay a dollar for this operation. Remember those predictions?
Mr. DELAHUNT. And that by this time, I say to the gentleman, there would be less than 30,000 troops in Iraq.
Mr. INSLEE. That is right. He said the Iraqi oil is going to pay for all of this. Look what he said the other day when he was asked what happened. He said, "I think there was probably too great a willingness to believe that once we got to 55 people on the black list, the rest of those killers would stop fighting."
Talk about rose-colored glasses, where people are committing suicide bombings to think that the next day, they were going to join the chamber of commerce, when we decided there was a new government in town. This was happy talk that is resulting in the deaths of our soldiers today and the incapacitation of the greatest military on Earth.
Just to give an example of how bad it is, I will tell my colleagues, if I were a soldier holding a 50-caliber on the top of a Humvee, I would be proud of the people I serve with; but I would not be very proud of the civilian folks who have gotten me in this predicament on the streets of Baghdad.
Look at this answer from General Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, about the civilians of the intelligence community and the lack of intelligence that our soldiers have been given. He was asked recently during Senate testimony whether the Iraqi insurgency was being coordinated from a central hub, and he responded, "The intelligence community as far as I know will not give you an answer because they can't give me an answer."
So we have these young men and women posted on streets in Iraq and the civilian folks have not given them intelligence to figure out if this is even a centrally planned insurgency. This is a huge, ineffective, incapable, negligent planning of a war; and we have not even started talking about how we got into the war.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I want to note getting back to the war on terrorism, where is Osama bin Laden? Where is Osama bin Laden? Why is the President not talking about Osama bin Laden, who is free tonight threatening our citizens where they live in our neighborhoods?
We found out last week that this administration is spending five times more money tracking people who travel to Cuba than they are trying to interdict the money going to Osama bin Laden, who is continuing a threat to this country.
This is one example of this administration taking their eye off the ball of the guy who killed almost 3,000 Americans. We are going to continue this discussion.
