Public Statements
Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2005
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 16, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2005 -- (House of Representatives - June 16, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the requisite number of words.
Mr. Chairman, we appreciate my friend from Arizona's impassioned interest in trying to improve the performance of our fuel reduction program to reduce the fuel loading on our forests. But the question I have is, where were the Republicans an hour ago when we wanted to add money to the account on the Hooley amendment that would have added millions of dollars to get this job done and they defeated this amendment?
The reason this job is not getting done is very simple. You have refused to appropriate the necessary money to get the job done. And instead of appropriating the dollars, you want to appropriate rhetoric attacking science. Where were you an hour ago when we tried to put more money in this account?
Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. INSLEE. I yield to the gentleman from Arizona.
Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Chairman, I was pleased to vote for the Hooley amendment.
Mr. INSLEE. I wish more of the gentleman's friends would have followed his admonition.
Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman continue to yield? Does the gentleman have the vote total, or does he expect that solely the opposition came on one side of the aisle? Because facts are stubborn things.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, reclaiming my time, the facts as I know them is that the Republican Party is in the majority in the House of Representatives. I regret that situation, but it is a fact. And the majority party refused to put more money in the fuels reduction account to get this job done 60 minutes ago, and now you are on the floor of the House trying to have some rhetorical argument that the reason this job is not getting done is because the law simply requires that we listen to science. But you do not want to listen to science. You want to listen to some other force of nature.
Let me suggest that one of the problems of the pickle we have gotten into in our forests with this dense situation in underbrush is because the Federal Government ignored science for decades, and now today you want to perpetuate the history of the Federal Government of ignoring sound science. You want to continue a situation that you started with 2 years ago of doing in our water and allowing arsenic in our water, doing in our air where you want to allow mercury in our air, you want to now have lawless logging. You want to have logging that is not constrained by science or law.
Let me suggest to my colleagues that the conservative approach on this issue is the approach that demands accountability of our government. The conservative approach demands that government respond to citizens by following the law. The conservative approach distrusts government; and when we have some innate suspicion of government, we make bureaucracies follow the law. But unless you pass this amendment, you are giving carte blanche to bureaucrats to ignore the science when it comes to conservation science, to ignore the science when it comes to ecosystems, to ignore the science when it is the right time to do underbrush thinning and when it is the right place to do underbrush thinning, and you want to give carte blanche to the bureaucrats.
This whole national forest management plan came out of the idea of reform, to reform bureaucracies so they will not ignore taxpayers. We stand for taxpayers who say that taxpayers who pay their money are entitled to make sure the bureaucracies follow the law and the science. But you want to shortcut the science. Science is not good enough for you. Science is not good enough on arsenic. Science is not good enough on mercury, and science is not good enough in logging our national forests.
We just have a simple proposition on this side of the aisle: follow the science and follow the law. That is why 325 scientists of the Society for Conservation Biology wrote a letter that urged the Forest Service, and by extension Congress, to not gut the National Forest Management Act, which you are gutting today. And we are simply here to say let us make sure that science rules in our forests. Let us make sure that the law rules on forests. Let us pass the Udall amendment.
