Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of HR 4503, Energy Policy Act of 2004, and HR 4517, United States Refinery Revitalization Act of 2004
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 15, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4503, ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2004, AND H.R. 4517, UNITED STATES REFINERY REVITALIZATION ACT OF 2004 -- (House of Representatives - June 15, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 ½ minutes to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee).
(Mr. INSLEE asked and was given permission to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, this rule is not just ineffective. It is not just inefficient. It is not just unfair. It perpetuates one of the largest frauds on consumers in American history. It aids and abets the rip-off by Enron of over $1 billion of American consumers of electricity in the West Coast of the United States in the last 4 years.
This rule does nothing about that. This rule allows Enron to keep their billion dollars they took away from our people, and this is clear. We have heard the tapes. We have heard the Enron traders saying let us jam a million dollars here to the grandmothers of California. Let us rip off the Washington ratepayers for $500,000. Let us stick Snohomish County for $152 million. Let us let California burn, baby, burn. And your rule does nothing about that. This rule is in bed with Enron. It aids and abets Enron. It is written for and by Enron, and it should be rejected.
Now, we have offered an amendment that will allow ratepayers relief, give ratepayers in Snohomish County that $122 million back, give ratepayers in California over hundreds of millions of dollars in relief back, and the Republican Party said, no, we are on the side of Enron.
Now, why did they do that? Well, this administration has not lifted a finger to help the ratepayers of the West Coast, not a finger. They have got all the efficiency of the Keystone cops and the aggressiveness of Barney Fife when it comes to enforcing the laws of this country.
In fact, when we met with the Vice President during the height of the energy crisis in 2000, we explained to the Vice President that Enron had turned off a third of the generating capacity in the West Coast and driven the prices sky high. And you know what he did? He looked at us, Members of Congress, and he said, "You know what your problem is? You just do not understand economics."
Well, we do understand economics. We just do not understand Enronomics. We do not understand why the majority party will not allow us to do anything to get relief back from the customers who are gouged by Enron. Why will not they allow this Chamber even the right to vote on the measure to recover some sense of justice? Why do they lay down with Enron? Why do they get in bed with Ken Lay? Why are you motivated to do that? We cannot understand it.
What I know is the people of my district deserve relief. They deserve a refund. The Snohomish County ratepayers deserve that $122 million back. So I want to ask my friend, the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Hastings), a friendly question, if I can. Today the gentleman is denying us the opportunity to get relief for ratepayers of the State of Washington and Enron.
When will the Republican Party bring to the floor of this House a measure to allow us to get refunds from Enron of the millions of dollars they stole from Washington and Oregon and California?
Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. INSLEE. I yield to the gentleman from Washington.
Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I tell my friend from Washington that I am outraged as he is and other speakers have been by the revelation of the traders at Enron. No question about that. It is in black and white.
Mr. INSLEE. Reclaiming my time, if the gentleman will just kindly answer my gentlemanly question. When will you bring a bill to the House to allow a refund by Enron? Just give me an answer.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
