Public Statements
Energy Policy Act of 2004
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 15, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2004 -- (House of Representatives - June 15, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
(Mr. INSLEE asked and was given permission to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, this bill, this alleged energy bill, reminds me a little bit of a reverse Energizer bunny because it just keeps not going, not going and not going. One of the reasons it does not go anywhere is it perpetuates the fraud on the American people that the Enron Corporation put over on the West Coast. It does not have one single dime of refunds for the people of California for the billions of dollars that were stolen from them by the Enron Corporation. It does not have the $122 million that the people of Snohomish County, Washington have coming to them. It does not have the over $1 billion that the people of Washington have coming to them.
What does it take for my Republican friends to join us to finally get refunds for the American people? We have heard these tapes of the Enron traders talk about jamming Grandma Millie, stealing millions of dollars, saying "burn, baby, burn" when the West Coast had brownouts. And the Republicans gave us nothing, not a dollar in refunds. What does it take? We have got the equivalent of fingerprints, DNA, videotape and confessions from Enron and yet this bill does not do a single thing to get refunds for the consumers of the West Coast of the United States.
Goodness knows we have tried. We asked the Vice President of the United States 2 years ago to help us. We told the Vice President of the United States that while there were brownouts in California, while stoplights were not working, 32 percent of all the generating capacity was turned off. What he said was, "The problem with you is you just don't understand economics." Well, we do understand economics. We just do not understand Enronomics. The majority party unfortunately is forcing down the throats of consumers in this country Enronomics. They are allowing Enron to continue to pillage and burn the West Coast. We deserve refunds. Reject this bill and get a bill that will stand up to Enron.
