Public Statements
Manipulations of Enron
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 15, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


MANIPULATIONS OF ENRON -- (House of Representatives - June 15, 2004)
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of January 7, 2003, the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the minority leader.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I came tonight to the floor of the House to address an outrage, perhaps the largest fraudulent activity in American history which has resulted in literally billions of dollars being stolen from American ratepayers for electricity in the western United States. And this, of course, is the outright theft from West Coast ratepayers by the Enron Corporation. And I have come to the floor tonight because, unfortunately, the energy bill that passed this Chamber today did absolutely nothing whatsoever to restore one ounce of justice for the consumers on the West Coast who were so grievously ripped off by the Enron Corporation.
Mr. Speaker, the sad fact is that today the House of Representatives had an opportunity to do something about an outrage that has not been remedied now despite our efforts for the last 3 years. Because the sad fact is that the Enron Corporation and others manipulated with unfortunately great effect the energy market in the West Coast starting in 2000. This manipulation resulted in West Coast ratepayers paying conservatively in the billions of dollars of overcharges to Enron and other energy traders. And the law of the United States as written is designed to prevent that and does prevent that if we had a cop on the beat to enforce the laws. But, unfortunately, what happened in the years 2000 and 2001 is that Enron found a way to gain the system. They found a way to essentially shut off generating capacity for the western coast of the United States and, as a result, drive up the prices dramatically, and they were unfortunately successful in this outrageous conduct. In fact, rates being paid by utilities, and therefore ratepayers in the western United States went up by a factor of a thousand percent, sometimes on a daily basis. And Enron was successful in doing this because they decided not to follow the law. And, unfortunately, they had some allies in not following the law, and that was this Federal Government, which did not enforce the law of the United States and allowed Enron to foist billions of dollars of overcharges on the ratepayers on the West Coast.
