Public Statements
Gross and Offensive Outrages Regarding Energy Crisis of 2000 and 2001
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 1, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


GROSS AND OFFENSIVE OUTRAGES REGARDING ENERGY CRISIS OF 2000 AND 2001 -- (House of Representatives - June 01, 2004)
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Feeney). Under a previous order of the House, the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, there are some outrages that are so gross and offensive that even if it takes years to right them, we should do that, and one of those outrages is the energy crisis of 2000 and 2001 on the West Coast of the United States.
But in fact there are two outrages involving the energy crisis in the Western United States. The first outrage is that Enron and various other traders gouged over hundreds of millions of dollars from consumers in the western United States. But the second and perhaps equal outrage is that the Federal Government, under the Bush administration, has been wholly ineffectual in getting back the money that has been stolen from consumers in the Western United States. These are two outrages.
Today and the last few days we have now discovered over 2,000 hours of taped conversations between Enron traders and others that clearly show the way that they stole hundreds of millions of dollars from consumers in the Western United States.
Those were discovered because of the great work of a small public utility district, the Snohomish PUD in Snohomish, Washington, that finally let us know, to get a window of the horrendous theft that went on, and I just want to quote a couple of things that the Enron traders talked about as they were stealing from the consumers of the West Coast.
Here is one trader, Tim Beldon, who since pleaded guilty to criminal fraud charges, who said, "Grandmothers were taken at the tune of a million bucks or two a day." Taken. They were taken due to the outright fraud of Enron.
Another quote from an employee who can be heard asking, "Do you know when you started overscheduling and making buckets of money on that?" Well, the buckets of money that they made came right out of the pockets of consumers.
The last quote, we heard traders of Enron saying basically, "Isn't it great that we jammed grandmothers for millions of dollars?"
Well, it is not great that they "jammed" grandmothers on the West Coast of the United States, and that needs to be fixed by the Federal Government.
But the second outrage is that our Federal Government and this administration has acted essentially like the Keystone Cops in doing nothing effective to get back these millions of dollars from our consumers. In Snohomish County, Washington, we have had 50 percent increases in electrical rates as a result of this gouging, and yet the FERC, the Federal Electric Regulatory Commission, and the Bush administration has done nothing to get this money back for the consumers.
Next week, when the energy bill is on the floor of the House, I will be offering an amendment to compel FERC, to compel the Bush administration to get off the dime and get this money back that has been stolen. They have acted with all the energy of Barney Fife on this, and it is time for them to do the job and get this money back for ratepayers.
Now, why has this not happened? Why has the Bush administration sat on their hands while this theft occurred? Well, I have to tell you that we have done everything humanly possible to get the administration, the President and the Vice President, to act on this.
In fact, during this crisis in 2000 and 2001, we asked the Vice President to personally intercede. Do you know what he did? On April 17, 2001, he met with Ken Lay of Enron; and they apparently talked about the energy crisis. And what after that conversation did they do? Two days later, the Vice President came out, Mr. Cheney came out on April 19 and said, "We think price caps simply don't work." And they did nothing effectual to solve this problem.
In fact, we had a meeting with the Vice President when this was going on, and we told the Vice President of this, at the very time there were brownouts in California, we told the Vice President of the United States that over 30 percent of the generating capacity in America was turned off. Obviously, to anyone who knew anything about energy, people were gaming this system. And we pleaded with the Vice President to help us.
After we laid out all of these facts and circumstances, these are several Members of Congress and myself to the Vice President, he looked at us in our eyes and simply said, "You know what is wrong with you? You just don't understand economics."
Well, we do understand economics. We just do not understand Enronics. We just do not understand a Vice President who wants to talk to Ken Lay but will not lift a finger to help American consumers to get these hundreds of millions of dollars back that were stolen. We do not understand a Vice President who says let those grandmothers be jammed, and we are not going to help.
We are going to have an amendment next week to solve this problem.
END
