Public Statements
Iraq Watch
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 17, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


IRAQ WATCH -- (House of Representatives - May 17, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will yield.
Mr. DELAHUNT. I yield.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, my constituents are tired of being suckered with false information that both precipitated and continue this war in Iraq, and they want some accountability of what happened with such a massive amount of misinformation given to the American people leading up to this war. They want accountability, and they deserve accountability.
We offered today an amendment to the defense authorizations bill to be considered this week that will give Americans some accountability on the source of this information, of Mr. Chalabi's rogue group, this alleged Iraqi National Congress. And there is nothing congressional about it. It is a bunch of folks that want to go back in and run Iraq and who convinced the neoconservatives who are behind this war that we would all be greeted with rose petals because Mr. Chalabi would be seen as the great savior of Iraq.
This great fantasy was bought hook, line and sinker by the President of the United States and the administration, and it was a fraud. And it is time for the American taxpayers to have accountability here.
Now, what I am told, and I want to make sure it is true, but I am told taxpayers are still paying this group, this group that gave us, apparently willfully, or potentially willfully, false information leading to this war. We are still paying $350,000 a month for their great services in Iraq. What did this group do for the American people? It got us into a war based on false administration they gave to the administration. The administration was all too happy to accept that there were weapons of mass destruction there; that there was a connection to 9-11 and that they would be greeted as liberators, the three legs of this stool, all of which were false. And we are still paying these people.
