Public Statements
Letter Opposing Hanford High Level Waste Reclassification
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 6, 2004
Location: Wahington, DC


Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA) expressed approval today that the House Armed Services Committee followed the recommendation of Inslee and his colleagues to reject the Department of Energy's (DOE) attempts to reclassify high-level waste at Hanford Nuclear Reservation and other DOE sites around the country. Inslee spearheaded a bipartisan letter to the Committee requesting that they not include language allowing the DOE to reclassify high-level nuclear waste. Inslee's announcement follows recent attempts in the Senate to include language in a defense bill to weaken the DOE's cleanup responsibilities for high-level waste.
Said Inslee, "I am very concerned about recent attempts to let the Energy Department off the hook by reclassifying high-level waste. Instead of changing the name of the waste at Hanford, DOE must focus on cleaning up the waste and protecting the surrounding environment. Today's decision by the Committee is an encouraging sign that we will continue to hold the Administration to the highest level of accountability in the cleanup of nuclear waste."
This marks the second time that Inslee has thwarted efforts in the House to allow the DOE to proceed with its reclassification proposal. Inslee's letter was signed by Members of Congress representing states where the DOE is attempting to reclassify nuclear waste, including Washington, Oregon, New York, Nevada and New Mexico. The text of the letter is as follows.
May 3, 2004
The Honorable Duncan Hunter
Chair, House Armed Services Committee
2120 Rayburn
Washington, DC 20515
The Honorable Ike Skelton
Ranking Member, House Armed Services Committee
2340 Rayburn
Washington, DC 20515
Dear Chairman Hunter and Ranking Member Skelton
We urge you to oppose the Department of Energy's Fiscal Year 2005 budget request for its so-called "High Level Waste Proposal," as well as DOE's proposal to reclassify high-level radioactive waste as "Waste Incidental to Reprocessing." Both of these provisions would have serious consequences for vital water resources in our states, would undermine the rights of our states and Tribes to protect public health, and would significantly alter the intent of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA).
The DOE is responsible for cleaning up 253 underground tanks containing approximately 100 million gallons of high-level nuclear waste in Washington, Idaho, South Carolina and New York. In an attempt to circumvent a July 2003 federal court ruling that found DOE in violation of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, DOE made its FY05 request for funds for cleanup of the tanks contingent on Congress adopting a legislative reversal of the court's decision. In essence, DOE has threatened to withhold $350 million from necessary environmental cleanup until our states agree to accept lower cleanup standards for these tanks-standards that would be inadequate to protect important water resources, including the Snake River Aquifer, the Tuscaloosa Aquifer, and the Columbia River.
Under the court's decision, DOE must remove the highly toxic radioactive waste from the storage tanks, many of which have already begun leaking, to protect human health. DOE may not arbitrarily "reclassify" the waste as incidental and abandon the waste in tanks beneath a layer of grout as the agency had planned. While DOE has not yet officially submitted a legislative proposal, the agency has circulated several versions of draft language that would allow the agency to reclassify potentially millions of gallons of radioactive waste in the tanks as "waste incidental to reprocessing," a category of waste not included in the Nuclear Waste Policy Act. DOE's proposal would give the agency authority to reclassify any type or any amount of radioactive waste, regardless of the risk it poses to human health, and abandon it onsite under a layer of grout, even though the waste itself has not been altered and will still be dangerous for thousands of years. The sludge and waste products that DOE plans to leave behind under grout layers would in many cases be the most radioactive materials in the tanks, with higher radioactivity concentrations than the high level waste that DOE plans to send to a geologic repository.
Our constituents agree that cleaning up these tanks should proceed quickly, however, the public expects the clean up to be complete as well. For that reason, in October 2003, the House of Representatives unanimously passed a motion to request the conferees of the energy bill to disregard reclassification language that the DOE had inserted into the bill. The states affected by the wastes have also consistently opposed DOE's efforts to legislatively overturn the court decision. In an August 2003 letter to Congress, the states of Idaho, Oregon, South Carolina and Washington wrote, "Reasonable solutions exist within the current law without undermining public trust in DOE's efforts to properly manage nuclear waste." The impact of the court's decision goes to the completeness of cleanup, not the pace of cleanup, and this issue will not become critical for many years. The DOE should continue with its plans to remove liquids from the tanks while working with the states, tribes, and public health advocates to develop final cleanup solutions that are acceptable to all parties.
We urge you to reject DOE's High Level Waste Proposal; return the $350 million for cleanup to the regular site budgets; and preserve the high-level waste cleanup requirements in the Nuclear Waste Policy Act.
Sincerely,
JAY INSLEE
AMO HOUGHTON
PETER DE FAZIO
MAURICE HINCHEY
RICK LARSEN
ADAM SMITH
BRIAN BAIRD
SHERWOOD BOEHLERT
SHELLEY BERKELEY
TOM UDALL
EARL BLUMENAUER
JIM McDERMOTT
