Public Statements
The Economy
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 5, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


THE ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - May 05, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I want to dovetail on this, to reference why this is so spectacularly ironic. About an hour ago one of our Republican colleagues was railing about the only problem with the Federal Government is waste, fraud and abuse, that that is the only problem, and just if the Democrats would stop all this waste, fraud and abuse we would have no problems.
I thought that was interesting, because this entire government is run by the Republican Party, a Republican President, a Republican Senate and a Republican House, yet he pointed out all this waste, fraud and abuse in the Federal Government. I wanted to stand up and say, who is in charge of the waste, fraud and abuse? Obviously it is the Republican Party, because that is who is running this government right now.
But here is this gentleman wailing about waste, fraud and abuse, when his party foisted down the throats of Congress and the American people this situation where they are giving $46 billion of taxpayer money to the insurance industry, which is totally unnecessary, because we could have given exactly the same benefits through Medicare.
Now, I challenge any Republican, any Republican or any Democrat, or any Green Party or socialist or independent, to show me a larger portion of waste, fraud and abuse than the $46 billion of taxpayer money going to the insurance industry, that does not deliver one penny of additional prescription drug benefit to seniors than Medicare could have done, had we not been involved in the shenanigan, not to pay off, but to pay benefits to people who are very, very powerful political forces in this town.
This I would nominate for the largest piece of waste, fraud and abuse, foisted on this country by the Republican Party, and it is an abomination. When you think about the generation having this done to them, think about who the victims of this fraud are, it is the men and women who we will be celebrating on Memorial Day down when we dedicate the World War II memorial. My dad is coming in. He was a World War II veteran.
