Public Statements
Outsourcing of Jobs
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 29, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


OUTSOURCING OF JOBS -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Speaker, I want to now yield to my colleague from my State, our State, I should say, the gentleman from the great State of Washington (Mr. Inslee) from the first district who is the cosponsor with me on the TAA bill to expand trade adjustment assistance for service sector employees and expand it in other areas as well.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for yielding.
I want to make a couple points before I address the specifics of this trade adjustment which I really think is great, not a panacea but certainly one of the things we need to do that address this problem. But I want to make two points about why legislation like this is necessary right now, and that is that two I think interesting facts that demonstrate why Congress needs to act now and the administration needs to follow us in doing so.
That is the unemployment, the job loss that we have suffered in the last 3 years is actually understated. A lot of folks have heard now a familiar number that we have lost about 2.2 million jobs in the last 3 years which is a greater job loss than any other time since Herbert Hoover was President of the United States. But that number is really kind of a fake number, and the reason is that it fails to take into account the jobs that should have been created under any sort of normal rate of economic growth. The truth is we have lost specifically about 2.2 million jobs, but if we had just grown jobs to keep pace with the rate of population increase, we would have actually grown four and a half million jobs if we had only kept pace with the population increase in the United States in the last 3 years.
So it is not that we have lost 2.2 million jobs, sort of behind the curve by 2.2 million Americans that are out of work. It is actually closer to 7 million. So the job deficit, along with the largest Federal deficit in American history, we now have the largest job deficit in the last 50 years.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman would yield, because that is a point I found interesting. When the President has proposed his tax cuts, for 3 years he has talked about the number of jobs he is going to create. The figure that he used for the tax cut that was passed was 1.2 million. He has fallen way short of at this point, I think it is about 400,000. But in making that proposal it is interesting that he assumes that, absent that tax cut, no jobs would be created, which flies in the face of history. Obviously, some jobs were going to be created.
As the gentleman points out, after we did this supply side tax cut for people at the high end of the scale, we actually created less jobs than economists tell us we would have created if we had done nothing. So it is worse than just not doing what he said it was going to do. It seems to be having a negative impact.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, that is another way of basically saying we have had no meaningful job creation for the last 3 years. So we have a $7 million job deficit and we basically had an experiment and that experiment failed. The President basically said these very large tax cuts for the wealthiest among us, those who are over $200,000 a year, we are going to create millions of jobs. It failed even to keep pace with just population growth.
There is four and a half million jobs missing that should have been there just to keep pace with population growth, and then there are 2.2 million jobs lost on top of that. So we are in a deep, deep hole; and whatever we are going to say, if we add one job now, we are still at the bottom of the well. So maybe we are one inch off the bottom of a 7 million foot well, if you will. We have got a long ways to go.
Second point is the reason Congress needs to act now is that these figures belie the severity in the length of this unemployment. Because we have over 2 million people who are unemployed tonight who have been unemployed for more than 6 months. That is the longest period and the largest number of people who have been unemployed over 6 months for over 50 years in America.
So not only are people not even counted in the unemployment insurance statistics because they have given up looking for work, those who are still on there we have the longest period of long-term unemployment in the last 50 years.
So I just want to point out those two points that we need to take into consideration whether we are going to act or not boldly and aggressively. And we think we should.
So one of the ideas, and this is not the only idea that we need to pursue, but we need to bring our trade adjustment assistance for Members up to speed with what is going on in the U.S. economy. We, and I am sure the gentleman has talked about this, have had a program to help people who have lost jobs that are associated with the dynamics of trade in manufacturing now for some period of time.
We have seen in Seattle a great success with that program. We have seen hundreds of folks, if not thousands, in Boeing who several years ago during the downturn availed themselves of the benefit of this program to get retraining. I have talked to any number of those. It is not 100 percent, but any number of these folks have been successful in finding other careers with retraining.
But now we have this phenomenon in the service sector, computer programming, accounting, in radiological services, in call centers. Now the service sector employees are experiencing the dynamics of trade. We simply have to bring this up to speed to this century's challenges that exist.
Our bill will do that. It will simply say that people in the service sector who lose jobs associated with the dynamics of trade are going to have an assistance from Uncle Sam. It is a pretty simple commitment that Uncle Sam ought to fulfill. We hope that the administration will embrace this idea.
And I will share one piece of good news. I serve on the President's Export Council, which is a group appointed essentially to advise the executive branch on export policies and trade policies.
[Time: 22:00]
It is a group of a lot of high-level executives of major corporations at General Motors, Intel, Boeing, a couple of Members of Congress; and last week, we met and this group sort of unanimously concluded that this idea of the extension of trade adjustment authority to service personnel should be pursued, and that will go to the President as a formal recommendation of this group here in the near future.
So we are hopeful that the administration and our Republican colleagues will join us in this very commonsense measure to help Americans get back on their feet, and we do not want to hear that we cannot do this for fiscal reasons, for two reasons; and there is a fiscal impact for this obviously, and we should be totally responsible in addressing that fiscal impact, but we believe that in the long term this is fiscally responsible to do because these folks are going to get back to work, they are going to get off the unemployment rolls, and they are going to start creating wealth and profits and wages and taxes themselves. This is a fiscally responsible thing to do, is we get people back to work. Over the long term it does not create the deficit; it helps to ameliorate it.
In addition, we think there are some future tax cuts for those earning over $200,000, which on a scale is not as important as the fact as getting these thousands of people who may have lost these jobs to folks in other countries due to trade. They have a higher claim on America's assistance right now, and they will be much more productive for the U.S. economy as well, and so we think this is a fiscally responsible approach; and we hope our Republican colleagues will join us.
There is one other thing that this bill will do. You may have talked about this already, but I want to allude to it. There are some imperfections in the existing trade adjustment bill, one of which would not kick in assistance for Americans except that they lost their job, at least the presumption is a country that we already had free trade agreement with. That is an artifact of history that we had to cure because if you are out of work, frankly it does not make a difference to your creditors whether you are out of work, losing a job to someone Uncle Sam has a free trade agreement with or not. So we hope to fix that in the long term.
The bottom line is, as the trade world has changed, as the economy has changed, Congress needs to change our provision for Americans to get retrained; and this is a fundamentally sound, fair, fiscal way to do it, and we are hoping that ultimately this becomes a bipartisan effort.
Unfortunately, we have not had our colleagues across the aisle coming in droves to join this, and that frankly is disappointing because anyone ought to understand when you are out of work and your job's been shipped to another country, and your mortgage still needs paying and your child's college education tuition still needs paying, it should not be a Republican or Democrat position the fact that we ought to help you get retrained, and we ought to recognize for those of us who recognize the value of trade, and I count myself among those who come from a very trade-dependent part of the world. The State of Washington is one of the trade-dependent parts of the country. We recognize the value of trade, selling Boeing planes to India, selling Microsoft software to China. We understand the value of trade, but those who care about trade have to recognize that there are dynamics of trade and people are discomfited and there are job losses associated with trade, and we need to create a lifetime learning situation where, as trade creates dynamic changes in the job market, we need to guarantee Americans the ability to get back on their feet and become retrained, and that is one part of that support system that I hope that we will pass.
