Public Statements
Hearing of the Subcommittee on the MIddle East and Central Asia of the House Committee on International RElations on Saudi Arabia and the Fight
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 24, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


HEARING OF THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON THE MIDDLE EAST AND CENTRAL ASIA OF THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ON SAUDI ARABIA AND THE FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM FINANCING (RAYBURN HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, DC, MARCH 24, 2004)
March 29, 2004 Monday
REP. GARY L. ACKERMAN (NY): Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you for participating and for especially scheduling this hearing this morning and for your statement.
The devastating attacks of September 11 and the fact that 15 of the 19 hijackers were from Saudi Arabia was a significant re- evaluation and examination of a relationship to which most Americans had previously given little thought. An initial conclusion of that examination I think is that the United States needs from Saudi Arabia both stability and change. And how we thread that needle presents us with one of the most difficult medium term foreign policy problems.
Up until May of last year I think it is fair to describe Saudi Arabia's counterterrorism cooperation is limited to terrorist groups and threats outside of Saudi Arabia. But since the attacks in Riyadh in May and November of last year, U.S.-Saudi cooperation on all aspects of terrorism has taken a qualitative turn for the better. Most commentators argue that the Saudis now get it and see that al Qaeda is out eliminate them as well as us. I'm reasonably sure that the Saudi leadership always saw al Qaeda this way, but attacks inside the kingdom and against them has given the government a new sense of urgency.
The steps that the Saudis have taken on terrorism financing are far reaching and welcome. They include: a new law making money laundering and terrorist financing crimes criminal offences, a ban on collecting cash at mosques, a prohibition on transferring charitable funds collected in Saudi Arabia outside of the country without foreign ministry approval, a requirement for charitable organizations in Saudi Arabia who have single disbursement bank account, and closure of unlicensed money exchange houses as well as closer supervision of hawala.
Bilaterally the Saudis have joined with us to set up a joint task force to investigate terrorist financing in Saudi Arabia. And earlier this year Saudi Arabia joined U.S. Government in asking the U.N. Sanctions Committee to designate four branches of al-Haramain as financial supporters of terrorism. But for all the positive steps that the Saudis have taken there are still questions of political will. For example, while the formation of both the high commission for charities and a financial intelligence unit have been announced, it isn't clear that either of these organizations has had an adequate staff or budget.
Similarly, it is not yet clear that Saudi officials are willing to prosecute Saudis for involvement in terrorism financing. For instance, while Saudi officials have removed Sheikh Akel Alakel the former director of Haramain for allegedly moving millions of dollars out of the country via couriers, they have yet to announce any criminal proceedings against them. Additionally, the Saudis seem reluctant to take action against international charities that are headquartered in Saudi Arabia such as the World Muslim League, International Islamic Relief Organization or the World Assembly of Muslim Youths, claiming that they cannot exert legal control of these organizations because they are international in nature. Saudi officials have likened this situation to the U.N. presence in New York, but surely the Saudi government at a minimum could require all charities operating in Saudi Arabia to abide by Saudi law.
While today we focus on one aspect of our relationship with Saudi Arabia, I think a word needs to be said about the context in which the changes in Saudi Arabian attitude on terrorism financing are occurring. These changes are I believe part of the larger national dialogue that is occurring in Saudi Arabia. Crown Prince Abdullah deserves credit for sanctioning a very broad conversation among Saudis over the future of Saudi society including education reform, the role of women in Saudi society, and even the announcement of municipal elections.
But while the dialogue is a positive step, it is tempered by several points. First, I don't think anyone should be fooled into thinking that the end result of these changes will be anything less than the continued control of the country by the House of Saud. Second, the limits of the discussion were on full display last week with the arrest of several prominent academics who, dissatisfied with the government sponsored Human Rights Commission, wanted to form an independent human rights organization. Third, much has been made of the announcement of the elections but little has been seen in terms of follow up. As with all things Saudi, much has been done and much remains to be done.
I don't think anyone will dispute that even after September 11, Saudi Arabia remains central to U.S. interests in the Persian Gulf. One need only look at the projected global demand for oil over the next decade to see that a stable, reasonably friendly Saudi Arabia is essential to the world economy. So the foundation of the U.S.-Saudi relationship will remain largely the same: U.S. security cooperation in exchange for steady flow of Saudi oil to global market. Yet our requirements in the global war on terror and our desire to press for democratization across the region argue for change. How we balance these conflicting requirements over the next several years forms the medium term dilemma that I previously mentioned. I hope today that our witnesses will be able to have us find at least part of that balance.
I thank you, Madam Chair. I do look forward to hearing from our -
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. ACKERMAN: How are they treated in our country before you proceed?
MR. ZARATE: In our country?
REP. ACKERMAN: Yeah.
MR. ZARATE: They would be treated-if they're a 501c3 they would be treated as a charitable organization and would be subject to the reporting requirements including form 990s and other relevant forms subject to oversight by the IRS.
REP. ACKERMAN: Are they operating in the United States?
MR. ZARATE: That is something I think is better handled in a closed session, Congressmen, in part because, as I mentioned, part of our efforts --
REP ACKERMAN: Let me ask you a question that you can answer in an open session. Have any of them filed to be 501©(3)s?
MR. ZARATE: I would have to go back to check, Congressmen, to make sure I have accurate information for you on that.
REP. ACKERMAN: Okay. Please continue.
MR. ZARATE: So in essence you have identified a very important point. It was a point that was identified by the FATF experts team. One of the members on that team is the director of my office. That is something that we are engaging with the Saudis directly.
In discussion with the Saudis on our last trip with Ambassador Black and Fran Fragos Townsend we raised this issue again with the Saudis and it is the top of the agenda in terms of how they are going to handle this from a regulatory standpoint. Again part of this has to do with legal definition as to how they --
REP. ACKERMAN: Have they done anything to regulate them or they just operate freely there?
MR. ZARATE: Well, in discussions with SAMA, which is the central financial regulator for the government of Saudi Arabia, they've indicated that they have in fact looked at the operations of these organization and have started to treat them if not de jure than de facto as charitable organizations. So that is a good sign because that means that there is a continued scrutiny with respect to their actions-continued scrutiny with respect to who's involved and who the directors are.
REP. ACKERMAN: Are the Saudis cooperating with us as far as the suggestions we're making? Are we making suggestions to the Saudis as to how to treat them?
MR. ZARATE: Yes, we are. And I think the international financial experts have as well and we've certainly engaged in this dialogue with them. Part of this, Congressman, is also understanding being sensitive with respect to their laws and their legal regime and trying to figure out the best way and the most effective way of dealing with the identified risk.
REP. ACKERMAN: The non international charities, the ones that are being controlled by members of the ruling family, are they subjected to Saudi law?
MR. ZARATE: Yes, all Saudi charities are subject to the new charities regulations and --
REP. ACKERMAN: Even the personal ones of the ruling family?
MR. ZARATE: All of the Saudi charities that are registered as Saudi charities.
REP. ACKERMAN: Let me ask it a different way. Are the ones controlled by the ruling family registered Saudi charities?
MR. ZARATE: We believe so. Congressman, I think it bears mentioning-and this is an important point of fact-that many of the charities established in the kingdom had a sort of honorary boards many of the members of the royal family. So in many instances --
REP. ACKERMAN: So you said-you're talking in past tense.
MR. ZARATE: Yes, because as the Saudi regime has realized and the royal family has realized open sort of unchecked support of charitable operations without realizing how these charities are operating or how they're moving money is not a wise thing.
REP. ACKERMAN: But there are separate charities-I mean a lot of us have our names whether we know it or not on honorary boards of things, but the ones that are actually controlled by the family, are they subject to Saudi law and are they registered?
MR. ZARATE: Congressman, I believe so and I believe it is also part of an ongoing effort something that was announced in later February by the Saudi government to consolidate all the charities including those charities that you're mentioning. As Ambassador Black mentions in his written testimony, we are still waiting for further details with respect to contours of that plan. But that's an important first step.
REP. ACKERMAN: Could we hear further from you on that when you have that and the other?
One further thing on this, if I may Madam Chair.
The Saudi authorities are obviously very interested in preventing money from flowing to al Qaeda which affects them directly but they seem to have a different attitude when it comes to stop funding that goes to other organizations, for example, Hamas. Two years we know that the Crown Prince Abdullah withdrew his support for Hamas but it is also my understanding that special accounts for funneling assistance for Palestinian organizations continued to exist. First, the charitable contributions from Saudi Arabia continue to flow to Hamas and are the special accounts for Palestinians subject to any of the new laws that are governing charities?
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. ACKERMAN: Are there Hamas representatives that travel to Saudi Arabia to raise money? And also what about affiliates of al Qaeda. Do they come to Saudi Arabia to raise money?
MR. BLACK: Well, I'm sure they do. I expect they do clandestinely at the very least. As you know, there are al Qaeda operatives in Saudi Arabia that we're looking to identify and engage to render law enforcement. It would be reasonable to expect that the Hamas does clandestinely. I would have to look and check in terms of the overt posture.
REP. ACKERMAN: And would you also report back to us as if you would, Ambassador --
MR. BLACK: I would be happy to.
REP. ACKERMAN: -- what the Saudi authorities have done if anything to stop this kind of activity?
MR. BLACK: Yes, sir.
REP. ACKERMAN: Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. ACKERMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I'd like to get a few things on the record myself.
I find the statements that Mr. Chabot has hopped in and out making to be very, very troubling, that somebody in the committee would continue the harangue of joining with a political campaign and using the forum of this committee to constantly try to discredit former member of the administration, much in the news today, and by inference and innuendo, accuse him of various things, is indeed a sad moment for this subcommittee. But if this subcommittee is going to be used as a platform to discredit one political party or another, I find that both sad-it may improve the attendance here at our sessions, but it certainly demeans the process considerably.
To expand on the selective record that Mr. Chabot tried to establish, he put certain things by unanimous consent in the record.
Mr. Berman asked several questions of the first panel that was before us at that time, and Ambassador Black said that the State Department had no knowledge of Mr. Clark's activity vis-?-vis putting the Saudis on the plane after September 11th, and cited an article in Vanity Fair and placed an article in the record from the Herald Tribune. Mr. Clark said that he signed off on it, on the plan. Didn't say that this was his plan. In fact, he said that it was higher ups in the White House.
I don't think that the vice president and the president of the United States can have it both ways, first to say that this guy was out of the loop, not in a real decision making position after appointing him the terrorism czar for the United States, and then claiming, well, he was out of the loop. We'll just ignore him because that's not an important position, someone who serves four administrations in a nonpartisan fashion. But, indeed, in his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Mr. Clark said-and I would ask unanimous consent to put his remarks --
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: Without objection.
REP. ACKERMAN: -- from that session-thank you, Madam Chair-he said that he couldn't cite the specific at the open hearing, but assured the Senate Judiciary Committee that the decision to send those Saudis out of the country on the plane was sent down to him by the highest levels in the State Department, the FBI and the White House. And that what he did is what any prudent person in that position would do, he asked for the names of the people that were being put on the plane, and to have them vetted, which he believed the FBI did in a cursory fashion.
That's the record as we know it. But to try to use this committee to further a campaign to shaft this guy, to discredit him and his credibility is something that, beneath the dignity of this committee, Madam Chair, and the way that you have always respectfully handled the committee --
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: If the gentleman would yield.
REP. ACKERMAN: I'd be delighted to yield to the chair.
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: And I think that if we would read back Mr. Chabot's words, I don't think that there would be any even insinuation that he was saying anything disparaging of the character-this is literally what he said. There was a recent report, which is true, it's right here-doesn't mean the report is true, but listen to what he said, and he read it just like that. There was a recent report that in the days immediately following 9/11 that former White House-so he didn't say that he was an evil man, he didn't say that he's personally responsible, and he alluded to the article, as you had pointed out, in Vanity Fair-and I'll read just this quote, and this is Mr. Clark's quote. Not saying he didn't use any characterization of it.
My role was to say that it can't happen until the FBI approves it. And so the FBI was asked. We had a live connection to the FBI, we asked the FBI to make sure that they were satisfied that everyone getting on that plane was someone okay to leave. And they came back and said, yes, it was fine with them. So we said, fine, let it happen. But if we read back --
REP. ACKERMAN: So Mr. Clark did everything that --
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: -- Mr. Chabot's words, I don't think he was doing any character assassination or anything of that-he wanted to ask the witnesses what they knew of that, and I think that is something that this subcommittee is directly asking about, the Saudi involvement in this problem.
REP. ACKERMAN: I happen to be very fond of Mr. Chabot. I don't agree with a lot of things he says, and he certainly says them in a rather laid back kind of way. But I know that he said a lot of things that he deeply regrets. The fact that he said it in a kind and offering way, brought it up here at this hearing at a time that was intended, I believe, to just lay out in a matter of-perfunctory way until Mr. Berman called him on it, to try to be discrediting of somebody's reputation, which is very much a part of a campaign on the national level now.
The vice president was very soft-spoken too when he tried to roast a guy on national TV and said, "Well, you know, we don't even know who this guy is. He's only a national terrorism czar, he's not in the loop." But he didn't say it with all the undertones that I'm saying it with, but that's how the American people read it. And despite the fact that Mr. Chabot's tone might be a lot warmer than mine at the moment, still there is no doubt in the minds of anybody who was listening carefully to what he said, and more importantly, what he was doing, that this was intended to be damage control for the administration and roughing up Mr. Clark a bit further in yet another forum and you can turn any dial and you'll see the spinmeisters doing this all over the lot.
That's what I'm sad about, that it would be done here. But if he chooses to do that in even the kind and gentlemanly way he does it, he should expect that this side will be ready for the fight.
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: Thank you. And just to either continue or end this, I think that if we would read back without any tone what Mr. Chabot's actual words were, it was asking a legitimate question of the State Department, FBI, Department of the Treasury officials, who might have also had a hand in allowing these flights to take off. And there were those press reports. And I literally read what Mr. Chabot said, and if we could read back his comments after that, and I don't think there was any character classification, positive, negative. It was neutral. What about these reports? Are they true?
REP. ACKERMAN: But did he ask that of anybody or did he just lay that out there?
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: He asked --
REP. ACKERMAN: It was Mr. Berman that put the question.
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: He said, "What kind of investigation was each of these Saudis put through by the FBI?" Like he wanted a list of the folks who were allowed to travel. And the folks indicated that they had no knowledge of it. I think in the 9/11 investigation --
REP. ACKERMAN: State Department guy didn't know anything, the FBI didn't know anything, and yet this guy is running the country, Mr. Baer. He's deciding to send 140 Saudis out on a special flight when all the airports are closed and no flight could get in and out, and you and I were taking the railroad to get to Washington because we couldn't get airborne. But this guy was running the country and the air control system and everything, despite the fact that the vice president said he's out of the loop. It's just a matter of his putting it out there, Madam Chair, that was --
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: I know. But I think it was a --
REP. ACKERMAN: Didn't say it in a --
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: -- legitimate question and that's what the-when the reports were cited, his name was linked. And, you know, I think it was a legitimate question on Mr. Chabot's part. But that's what the 9/11 hearings --
REP. ACKERMAN: I'm sure it was, and I'm legitimately trying to de-link it.
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: Okay. Good deal. All right.
REP. ROYCE: Madam Chair, excuse me.
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: Thank you.
Mr. Royce.
REP. ROYCE: If I could-there was another question I wanted to ask, if I could.
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: Yes. Please go ahead.
REP. ROYCE: And it had to do with the question of a special envoy for money laundering actually setting up a position in our government of having a special envoy who would be held responsible. I think there's a lot of responsibility going around on all of these questions. The question now is how do you give somebody the power and the authority and a high enough position in an administration that they can actually go after the money laundering and stay on it day in, day out, and get answers, and be at the table with the international institutions, for example, when the World Bank meets and so forth, where they can exert their influence from the top and say, if the United States is going to go along with these international institutions we're going to have reforms that allow for more transparency specifically so that we can look at the laundering of money that ends up financing terror.
I would like to ask the two witnesses if they think that if we could push for such an agenda, such an elevation of responsibility and authority into a special envoy that would be given that authority and power, whether that comes out of Treasury or however, what they feel. Would that make a discernable difference or not?
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: And pigtailing, if I could, Mr. Royce, on your question, the role of banks in Europe also. How would you see this envoy if you would have some sort of capability in overseeing or looking at some of the transfer of funds that we have had reports of banks in Europe and Middle East perhaps having a role in transferring the funds for these groups. And expanding on that, if you could tell us the role of private fiduciaries in Switzerland and Lebanon that we have heard may have had a role in these transferred funds.
MR. BAER: If I could answer first, I think it's a brilliant idea, Congressman. First of all, this government has an enormous amount of resources to trace money. The Central Intelligence Agency, the State Department, the IRS. More than that, the National Security Agency, which has a responsibility for following an incredible database, that a czar for money laundering overlooked this.
And also, getting to the point where you're looking at really what the Department of Justice is doing in a country like Switzerland. And as far as I can tell, the Swiss are more concerned about keeping American money out, because of all the pressure we put on them, than they are of keeping Arab money out. It's the way it works. I think they're being very vindictive about it, the Swiss. And there's also you've got the question of the fiduciary accounts. All you do is you find a nominee trusted. You can either carry cash to him or you can make a transfer. And the money essentially disappears in another man's name.
You have to regulate these fiduciary accounts. They're all over Europe. Some countries are better than others. I think the Swiss are the worst. These people are untouchable. France, they watch it very closely and they put pressure on the nominee. We have to get some sort of unity in Europe as well as the prime banking centers in the Middle East and East Asia. You've got the same problems.
What I found is that people who deal in money are very clever and they're very concerned about keeping their money away form the tax authorities and everybody else. And they seem to be just a little-a step ahead of us. And a more concerted effort to go after these people and throw some of our best bankers at it under a czar I think would be very effective. It would also be very effective in finding where-you've got strange transfers of money which would give leads to the FBI and the CIA to follow people, in particular this country, you know, ATM transfers, things like that. Thank you.
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: Thank you so much, Mr. Royce.
And thank you, Mr. Ackerman.
And thank you to this excellent panel of witnesses for your testimony today and for all the audience members as well who participated.
So this subcommittee is now adjourned.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
