Public Statements
Organ Donation and Recovery Improvement Act
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 23, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


ORGAN DONATION AND RECOVERY IMPROVEMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 23, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
(Mr. INSLEE asked and was given permission to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, this really is a bright day for the U.S. House of Representatives because today, with the passage of this bill, we will expedite the abilities of Americans to give the gift of life. It is not every day that we do something in the House of Representatives that can allow people to live, allow people that are now on waiting lists, waiting this morning to get an e-mail to come in and get their liver transplant or their heart transplant, that we are going to pass a bill today that will allow people to make a decision to actually give the gift of life; and I think that is a pretty good thing to be pleased about in the U.S. House of Representatives.
The part I would like to talk about just briefly about this bill is a portion of a bill that Floyd Spence, our great Republican colleague from South Carolina, who I introduced a portion of this bill with back in 2000. Floyd, when we introduced this bill, was the longest living double heart/lung transplant in America, and I hope that this will shine on his memory with the passage of this bill today. Because what this bill will do will create an organ donor coordinator position in hospitals.
It will be largely federally funded, and where we have put organ coordinators in hospitals, we have found we actually doubled the rate of donation decisions made by families, because it allows families the confidence and the knowledge and the coordination with doctors and nursing staff to make this decision.
So this bill, we believe, is going to significantly increase a number of people who get that great call in the morning saying, come on down for your new liver and a new lease on life with 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 new years of life that people are going to have in this country because this bill is going to pass.
Just to put a personal face on this if I can, and let me tell my colleagues why I feel so passionately about this. I want to introduce my colleagues to a friend of mine, Chris Klug. This was taken about 2 years ago when we started working on this bill. Scott, in the year 2000, had a problem where he lost his liver function, and Scott did not have a lot of time to live when he got a new liver transplant.
Just to show my colleagues how successful these organ transplants can be, Scott, just 2 years later after getting a new liver, went on to get a Bronze Medal in the slalom snow-boarding Olympic championship in 2002. That is a pretty amazing thing that this gift of life not only gives a gift of life, but it gives a gift of the tremendous life that Scott is now engaged in. We can see him on these snow-boarding competitions on occasion.
The second person I want to tell my colleagues a little story about is, yesterday morning I was at the University of Washington Medical School in Seattle, Washington, and I was talking to Dr. Robert Carithers and Dr. Connie Davis, who had been involved in one of the premier transplant centers in the United States. They introduced me to a general named Henry Durnil.
Henry is a fellow who works making sure that our navy ships are in good shape at the naval port in Everett, Washington, and some time ago, Henry's liver started to fail him. He got a call Saturday saying, come on in, get your new liver, and I got to meet Henry who was lying in bed. I have got to tell my colleagues if my colleagues saw the smile on Henry Durnil's face and we heard him talking about the miracle of getting a new lease on life, my colleagues will both vote for this bill and they will be happy to spread the gospel of helping others to make the donation decision, because Henry told me that he felt this was truly a miracle. He thanked his nurse, Susan Moore, and the whole transplant team at the University of Washington.
[Time: 14:45]
I am happy we are going to pass this bill so there will be more people with Henry's story to tell.
I want to make a special plea to those who are considering this bill, and may be candidates to be organ donors. There are 80,000-plus people who are in the position of Scott Bennett, whom I also met yesterday at the Washington University Medical School. Scott Bennett has climbed Mount Ranier a few times. He has a heart ailment and has been on a waiting list for a heart for over 4 years.
I would also like to mention Jack Slater, who is a teacher for Seattle public schools who has been writing a diary in the Seattle newspapers about his experience.
Mr. Speaker, we have over 80,000 people like Scott and Jack on a waiting list. This is a step we are going to take today to get the Jacks and the Scotts of the world in a position like the Chris Klugs of the world back doing healthy active lives.
To let Members know how active they can be, we are trying to get the Organ Donation Transplant Athletic Games in Seattle in 2006.
I want to make a couple of points in general that are important in this issue of donation.
Number one, it is very important for people to realize that all of us are both prospective donors and recipients. I can tell Members how we are all prospective recipients, because a year after I started working on this bill, my son developed a congenital eye condition and ended up getting his sight restored due to a cornea transplant. So all of us can be recipients.
But most importantly, we can all be donors. It does not matter how old you are, your race, where you live; all of us can give the gift of life.
There is a fellow named Jamie Moyer, who is an All-Star pitcher for the Seattle Mariners. He is going to be the starting pitcher this year, and he has been an advocate for organ donation issues. Not all of us can pitch like Jamie Moyer, but all of us can be donors to give the gift of life; and I hope people will think about that in their own personal lives.
Secondly, if someone wants to be a donor, it is very important to talk to your family because your family is essentially involved in the decision at that particular moment, and it is very important to let your family know about your wishes because your family needs to convey your wishes to the hospital at the right time. I hope people will talk to their families about this issue and we can make sure that we help more folks on the road back to recovery.
I thank the gentleman from Florida (Chairman BILIRAKIS), who has shown great leadership on this issue. This is a great bipartisan effort, and the wonderful story that we can tell as we go home to our constituents this weekend is to say that we can give the gift of life. It is a good day for the House of Representatives and America.
Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I thank the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) for his moving statement about how important this is. I think he really summed it up. I also thank the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Bilirakis), the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Brown), the gentleman from California (Mr. Waxman), the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Burr), the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Pallone), and of course the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Dingell), and many, many other Members who made this a reality. And I would like to thank the staff that also worked on this bill, because this is life-saving legislation. I think when it comes to saving lives, I think we should try to move as quickly as possible. I hope we can move this bill through the House and it becomes law, and we can make certain that we save lives of people.
