Public Statements
Threat from Mercury Emissions
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 18, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


THREAT FROM MERCURY EMISSIONS -- (House of Representatives - March 18, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. I appreciate the gentleman from Maine bringing this important matter to national attention. I do care about the mercury contamination which this country will be experiencing because of the attempted sellout by this administration to special interests which will result in more mercury in the blood of young children in America. If that sounds like a strong statement it is, and it is true.
But one of my concerns here is this is not just the only instance when this administration has knuckled under to the interests of special interests on K Street rather than the public interest which is supposed to be expressed on Independence Avenue where the U.S. Capitol is located. I just want to say that this is not, unfortunately, an aberration of this administration's sellout to special interests, to ignore science, to ignore clear health implications. It is consistent with their pattern of neglect of science and they are showing great attention to special interests. They need to do it the other way around. We need an administration that will show special sensitivity to health interests and ignore special interests on occasion. They have got it exactly backwards. They show exquisite attention to lobbyists from these industries and ignoring the clear science for health to the American people. I want to list some of the other places where they have done this.
[Time: 16:00]
And the oil and gas industry that has attempted to open up these methane drilling wells in a variety of places, the Rocky Mountains, including wilderness areas in Utah and in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, they have catered to specialists; and they have ignored the clear import of science.
We are not the only ones who care about this. There have been some investigations in the Department of Interior about a fellow who used to work for the oil and gas industry, then was put as the fox in charge of the hen house, supposedly regulating. What was the first thing he did, like in the first few weeks on the job? And what did the investigators find out? They found out that he hosted a get-together, a little shindig for all the lobbyists to come down and do business with me, boys, I am now in charge of the Department. That is not what we expect from our public officials, and as a result, we have seen some ignoring of good science, which has caused tremendous problems for ranchers in Wyoming of contaminating the water supply because they have shown more interest to K Street than to Main Street.
Second example, we had over a million people testify about whether to preserve old-growth timber in our remaining 10 percent of our national forests that have not been clear-cut, and we went out to ask what the public thought of the President's proposal to open up what we call the roadless areas to clear-cutting, and the public responded. There were over a million people who told the administration to keep their handsaws and their chainsaws from clear-cutting our roadless areas. And they got maybe three letters from the lobbyists on K Street.
So what did this administration do? They are gutting this protection of the most pristine, the most precious crown jewels in our national forest system to allow these 6-foot and 8-foot and 10-foot 600-year-old trees to be cut down in clear-cuts, violating the clear science that that is not what we should be doing with the roadless areas. And why did they do it? They did it because this administration is extremely sensitive to K Street and not sensitive to the health interests and well-being, as they should be, of our constituents.
Let me tell the Members why this is important. A lot of people do not think of forests as a health issue, but we have found out that is where our clean water comes from, from the forests. This is the greatest water purification system the planet has. And this administration ignored 1.2 million people who told this administration to ignore K Street and fall to the wishes of people, which they did not do.
Third issue, and again I think it is important to note, anyone can make a mistake and any administration can make a mistake once in a while, but this is just a long train of abuses, an unbroken chain of following special interests rather than the health of the American people. When we are considering lead poisoning levels in the lead paint industry, which is of some interest to Members of Congress now because we are drinking water with too much lead in it in the Washington, D.C. system, which is an issue we are going to have to address, and maybe that explains some of the bad legislation around here, I am not sure; but in consideration of lead poisoning levels, in 2002, the CDC's Advisory Committee on Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention was preparing to address the issue, and they had been advising that we need to address this issue. Did the administration address this issue in an aggressive, health-oriented way? No. Did they appoint people to the reflective committees that made their decision? No. They had special interests on their operation, and they failed the health of the American people.
We could go on and on, but we are limited by time. This is a system that has corrupted the democratic process, and some of the best evidence that I know of, and the gentleman may have talked about this already, about a month ago, 20 nonpolitical Nobel laureates, and Nobel laureates usually think about physics and chemistry rather than politics, and they do not pound a lot of yard signs and they are not interested in running for public office, but 20 people who won the Nobel Prize, Americans in various sciences, chemistry, physics, name it, they were so disturbed by what this administration was doing in ignoring science to cater to special interests, they got together and wrote a letter to the President of the United States, and their basic message was start listening to good science rather than bad special interests.
And it is a pretty extraordinary event when scientists will get out of the lab, frankly, where they do tremendous work, and write a letter like that to the President of the United States. These are Democrats and Republicans, probably some Green Party members in there too. So I think it is an indication of how sour and corrupted this system has become. And so we are down here blowing the whistle on it, and I want to thank the gentleman from Maine (Mr. Allen) for his efforts.
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) for his remarks, and I appreciate his leadership on this issue. And he is exactly right. That group of distinguished scientists was saying that this administration over and over again manipulates science to serve the ends of their policy.
I am going to yield to my friend from Maryland in just 1 minute, but just to pursue this question of who is writing the regulations, we have already pointed out that the EP professionals were shut out of the process of doing scientific studies of this proposed mercury rule and that Latham & Watkins, a Washington law firm, wrote part of the rule. There is another group involved. This is West Associates, a research and advocacy group representing 20 power and transmission companies in California and other Western States. The proposed rule contains exact language requested by West Associates, and the West language suggests a standard for determining likely mercury emissions at power plants.
In other words, a provision that was enormously beneficial to the power plants was put in this proposed rule, an EPA rule, word for word. So part of it came from Latham & Watkins here, a law firm here, and part of it came from West Associates in California. How can the public have any faith that their interests, their health interests, are being protected by an administration which routinely violates the Clean Air Act in developing its regulations, all as a way to try to reduce expenses for the coal industry and the utility industry, both big contributors to Republicans and to the administration?
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, just one final note. There is a reason that the Vice President of the United States refuses to let the people who hired him, which is the American people, know what went on in this secret operation that took lobbyist language and put it in our energy bill. There is a reason for that. And that reason is another symptom of the sickness that is on our body politic right now. And I want to thank the gentleman for his efforts
