Public Statements
Efforts to Recover Iraq's Stolen Money
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 18, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service March 18, 2004 Thursday
HEADLINE: PANEL I OF A HEARING OF THE HOUSE FINANCIAL SERVICES/OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES
SUBJECT: EFFORTS TO RECOVER IRAQ'S STOLEN MONEY
CHAIRED BY: REPRESENTATIVE SUE KELLY (R-NY)
WITNESSES: JUAN ZARATE, DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF TREASURY FOR TERRORIST FINANCING AND FINANCIAL CRIMES; PAUL SIMONS, DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR ENERGY, SANCTIONS AND COMMODITIES
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. JEB HENSARLING (R-TX): In the interests of time, Madame Chairman, I just ask unanimous consent that my opening statement be entered into the record.
REP. KELLY: So moved.
Mr. Inslee.
REP. JAY INSLEE (D-WA): (No audible reply.)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. JAY INSLEE (D-WA): Thank you. I assume that just about at the same time the war started in Iraq, that your agency swung into action right away to try to chase down any of Saddam's assets. Is that a fair statement? Just pretty close to contemporaneous with starting the war?
MR. ZARATE: That's right. The announcement from Secretary Snow launching this campaign was immediately coincident with the commencement of actions in Iraq.
REP. INSLEE: I certainly appreciate that. And the question arises, if we did that in Iraq, why after September 11th, two days after September 11th, did this administration allow a privately chartered 737 fly around America picking up Saudi Arabian citizens, including blood relatives of Osama bin Laden, and fly them out of the United States back to Saudi Arabia without undergoing a close, comprehensive scrutiny to determine whether or not they had any relationship to the assets of al Qaeda, as has been widely reported? And if you can shed light on whether in fact that is accurate or not, that would be appreciated. And if you can explain why the U.S. government did that at the same time it was grounding all the airplanes in America so my constituents couldn't get home from their business trips, it allowed Saudi Arabians, a country that had 15 out of 19 members on the planes that crashed into the towers were from Saudi Arabia, and flew them out of the country without really scrutinizing the situation for assets.
MR. ZARATE: Congressman, I don't know that I can give you a detailed answer to that question. But I can say-and I think I could speak on behalf of my Treasury associates as well, that those of us that were involved with the issue of terrorist financing in the wake of 9/11 moved very quickly. We had an executive order that was in place within the first several weeks after 9/11. And the first comprehensive effort to identify and to freeze the assets of terrorist financiers was put into place in very rapid fashion.
Subsequently we sought and obtained U.N. blessing for this and we went international. So on the issue of seizing and freezing terrorist financing assets, I think the record of the administration post-9/11 was a very strong one.
REP. INSLEE: Well, I appreciate that. Could you shed light on whether or not the facts I set forth are accurate or not? Did that happen?
MR. SIMONS: I don't have the information on that. I'll have to get back to you with an answer on that question.
REP. INSLEE: I would very much appreciate it because, as far as I can tell, we have not received information from the administration. And so if you can favor with me a letter specifically stating whether those things happened or not and explaining why this administration would allow an airplane to pick up Osama bin Laden's relatives to fly them out of the United States of America two days after 7/11 (sic), at the same time they're grounding every other civilian aircraft in America, without finding out if they had some of al Qaeda's cash with them-if you could explain to me a justification why this administration let that happen I would be very appreciative, and I will provide you my address.
Second question I have. Could you gentlemen, in some reform-this is an approximation-could you tell me the approximate number of people that are involved in this tracing of Iraqi assets now, just in your respective-and again, this is ballpark figures?
MR. ZARATE: Congressman, that's a hard number to give you in part because on a daily basis you have --
REP. INSLEE: Can you give me just ballpark, within a factor of three?
MR. ZARATE: Yeah, I would say, at least within Treasury, we have certainly our investigators on the ground from the Criminal Investigation Division at IRS, five of whom will be on the ground as of April. We have four on the ground now. They work very closely with FBI counterparts and Department of Defense officials. Those numbers are very difficult, at least for me, to provide.
We also have officials in the Coalition Provisional Authority who are advising the ministry and also working on these issues. There is one particular individual from Treasury who is focused on this issue, and the State Department has some individuals as well.
And then back here at main Treasury we have a fluctuation of about, I would say, from five to 10 experts at any time dealing with this issue as well as people at main headquarters at IRS as well as people at OFAC and FinCEN.
So it's hard to give you an exact number because on a daily basis, depending on the issues-the issues revolving around this are so complicated and varied, it really depends.
REP. INSLEE: Could those-I'm sorry. Mr. Simons?
MR. SIMONS: Yes. From the perspective of the State Department, we have at any time from about five to 10 officials in the building working the issue, and at each of our embassies we have identified since 9/11 a terrorist finance coordinating officer who has undergone training in Washington and who is working not only terrorist financing issues, but also these Iraqi issues. So we have a point person at every one of our embassies around the world that is following up on the leads.
I would also like to note if I could, Mr. Congressman, that the leads that are being generated by the Treasury/IRS folks in the field, working in Iraq, are truly unique. We've never had this kind of effort before. And our ability to take that information, to route it through Washington and to get it back out to the field again is something that's very unique. And when we talk about lessons learned, I think it's something that we might try to see if we can do in the future.
Thank you.
REP. INSLEE: Are these --
REP. KELLY: Thank you very much, Mr. Inslee.
I really want to thank this panel. There may be questions that will be coming from other members. And I want to first of all explain --
REP. INSLEE: Madame Chair?
REP. KELLY: I'm sorry?
REP. INSLEE: Could I ask you your indulgence? I don't know if we could have a possibility --
REP. KELLY: Mr. Inslee, I'm really sorry but there is a-there will be a closed briefing after this meeting. If you have further questions, perhaps you can ask them in that closed briefing.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. INSLEE: Thank you for the chair. That's an act of great graciousness. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
Some of us feel that the greater threat at the time the war started in Iraq to the lives of our constituents was actually al Qaeda, the group that killed thousands of Americans on September 11th. If the will of the policy makers at that time had been to continue to focus on stopping al Qaeda from killing Americans, rather than to shift and shift resources into the war in Iraq, would the people that you just identified-each of you talked about a certain number of people who are now chasing Iraqi assets instead of al Qaeda assets-would those resources have been available to chase al Qaeda assets, the group that struck us on September 11th? The ones that are now chasing Iraqi assets?
MR. ZARATE: Congressman, this administration, the Treasury Department, I know the State Department has never lost its focus on the battle against al Qaeda and other terrorist groups. Our campaign to freeze assets and to seize assets related to al Qaeda is unabated. In fact, today we are announcing the designation of 10 individuals that are part of an Italian cell, submitted to the U.N. by the Italians. This is an ongoing effort. We now have designated 361 individuals and entities, frozen or seized approximately $200 million in terrorist-related assets, continue to work closely on a bilateral basis and multilaterally with our partners abroad to address the al Qaeda issue. So my answer is that all the relevant resources are being applied to the hunt for al Qaeda's finances, and on a daily basis we are uncovering those leads as well and taking appropriate actions to deal with them.
REP. INSLEE: Thank you.
