Public Statements
Personal Responsibility in Food Consumption Act
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 10, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY IN FOOD CONSUMPTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 10, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. INSLEE
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I offer an amendment.
The CHAIRMAN pro tempore. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Amendment No. 3 offered by Mr. Inslee:
Section 4(5)(A), insert after "knowingly and willfully" the following: "or negligently".
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I think there is a bipartisan consensus here today that educated and informed consumers regarding what is in their food should not have a claim relating to obesity and that we would all attempt to write a law that will effectuate that goal. But as Mark Twain said, the difference between the right word and almost the right word is the difference between lightening and a lightning bug. And the difference between a well-crafted bill and one that misses the mark a little bit is the difference between a radical restructuring of civil liability law in the United States and a bill that we want to produce. And, unfortunately, this bill lacks two words. And our amendment would cure that defect.
Mr. Chairman, it is a very well-accepted principle, if I can compare this scenario, it is a very well-accepted principle that in America if a person is inattentive for a few moments and violated a law by going through a stop sign, they are responsible to the injured party for the wreck. It is a very well-accepted principle that if a person who manufactures jet airplanes is inattentive for a moment, and they fail to put a bolt on an engine and the engine falls off and 250 people are killed, they are legally, or their corporation is legally, responsible for that violation of the law.
It is clear at this moment that if an employee of a company is inattentive and puts the wrong information on the box of a food or a bench or a medical product and someone dies as a result, that corporation is liable for their inattention.
But because of the absence of the word "negligence" in this bill, we would have removed liability for that very, very well-accepted principle. Let me tell you why that is important. Take the case of Steve Beckler, former pitcher for the Baltimore Orioles who took a product called Xenadrine RFA-1. It is a dietary supplement, and it appears to be covered under the definition of food of this statute or proposal. It was sold and Mr. Beckler died. It was advertised as having the quality of a rapid fat-loss catalyst. The medical examiner concluded that his death was a proximate result of this medication.
Now, I do not know exactly about the circumstances of the warnings or lack of warning on that product; but under this bill as currently drafted without the Inslee amendment, if the clear testimony was that the label that said do not take this if you have high blood pressure was left off due to inattention, there would not be a responsibility. And the widow of this gentleman would be out of luck.
If, in fact, someone violated the clear mandate of Congress or a State legislative body to give a specific warning that is identified in law, and if that warning did not get on the product, the victim would still be out of luck.
And I want to make sure people understand this. By inserting the word "negligence" into this bill, we will not be giving jurors the right to determine what warnings or information should be on the product. That is not giving jurors that ambit. All this will say is if my good friend, the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Sensenbrenner), the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Watt), and all of us get together and we pass a law that certain information has to be on the box, like do not take this weight loss supplement if you have high blood pressure, or do not take it if you have evidence of stroke or previous history of stroke, and due to someone's inattention or the fact that they were asleep at the switch or they just were not doing their job, the victim will not have a claim under law. And I do not think that is what the majority of us ought to be about if we are imposing this obligation.
I ask the majority party, let me just pose this as a friendly question to my friends, if indeed we pass a bill here that requires, for instance, that a warning be on a weight-loss product that says do not take this weight loss product if you have an evidence of high blood pressure, and if an employee is asleep at the switch or is inattentive at the brief moment and the product goes out without the label and somebody dies, I am asking the majority party why the widow or family of such a victim who died as a result of an obligation we voted to impose in United States Congress, why do you intend to deny that person a remedy? That is an open question to anyone in the majority.
Mr. KELLER. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. INSLEE. I yield to the gentleman from Florida.
Mr. KELLER. Mr. Chairman, that scenario you just posed about someone taking some kind of improperly labeled diet drug has nothing to do with this legislation. That claim would still go forward and be unimpacted.
This legislation specifically is narrowly targeted to claims based on weight-gain or obesity.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I reclaim my time.
The CHAIRMAN pro tempore. The gentleman's time has expired.
Mr. KELLER. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.
Mr. Chairman, at the committee there was an attempt to strike the knowing and willful standard from the bill. That was unsuccessful. I would ask my colleagues to vote "no" on this amendment as well, which is kind of a new twist there, keeping the knowing and willful, but then they also add "negligently," which in effect does the same thing, strike it. So all you have to do is prove negligence.
This bill already allows a case to go forward any time a Federal or State statute has been knowingly and willfully violated and that violation is a proximate cause of the injury.
[Time: 14:30]
Let me tell you why it is important to have this knowing, willful standard and what the precedent is.
The knowing and willful standard is the exact same standard used in H.R. 1036, the Protection of Law Commerce and Arms Act that overwhelmingly passed this House in a bipartisan fashion. In fact, it received 285 votes. Therefore, anyone who voted for H.R. 1036 and who votes for this amendment will be voting for stronger protections for firearms manufacturers than for the food industry, which is the largest private sector employer in the country providing 12 million jobs.
The claim that it is too burdensome to require a person to knowingly violate a law before they can be said to meet the exceptions to this bill, fails to understand the flexible nature of the requirements. Let me give you an example. A typical jury instruction regarding what the so-called mens rea requirement for knowing means states as follows: "Knowledge may be proved by all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case. You, the jury, may infer knowledge from a combination of suspicion and indifference to the truth. If you find a person had a strong suspicion that things were not what they seemed or that someone had withheld important facts yet shut his eyes for fear of what he may learn, you may conclude that he acted knowingly."
Therefore, the knowing standard is certainly flexible enough to produce justice in our courts in all circumstances. There is precedent for it, and it should be used here as well. I also would point out that under the bill, claims can go forward for breach of contract, or breach of warranty as well.
I ask my colleagues to vote "no."
Mr. WATT. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the requisite number of words.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the gentleman from Washington's (Mr. Inslee) amendment; and I want to yield to him, but I want to make one comment before I do so.
My colleague, the sponsor of this bill, has on several occasions told us a persuasive, powerful reason for doing something related to this bill is something that we did related to H.R. 1036. First of all, many of us voted against H.R. 1036. It did pass this body, but then it went to the Senate and the Senate jettisoned the bill. So to use as some powerful reason that something is in a bill that had not even gone through the legislative process, was not even worthy of sending to the President's desk for signature, strikes me as being about as far a stretch as saying that this bill is about employment rather than politics.
Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee).
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I want to again reiterate I think there is a mutual desire to try to find the right language that will accomplish our mutual end, but this bill does not use the right language to do it.
I want to respond to the gentleman from Florida's (Mr. Keller) statement that my situation was inappropriate. I think I would refer the gentleman to the language of section 5 which cuts off claims for a whole host of injuries including "any health condition that is associated with a person's weight gain or obesity."
Any health condition that is associated with a person's weight gain or obesity. The fact of the matter is if someone forgets to put the label on that says do not take this if you have high blood pressure, and you gain weight and your high blood pressure goes through the roof, you have a claim associated to your obesity. There is no reason to have to include that language. And if you are going to include that language, you ought to at least include the well-accepted principle of American jurisprudence in 50 States which is this:
If someone refuses to honor the legal mandate for conduct that the U.S. Congress imposed due to inattention or negligence, there is legal responsibility for that. And for the first time as I know it, and I think the gun law is not applicable because that applied to creating an obligation through the obligation of exercising reasonable care, what this amendment does is say if Congress imposes an obligation to say X, Y or Z, it is not the jurors coming up with that obligation to say something on the label. We are simply saying if you do not follow the law, there is a responsibility.
I am asking my colleagues to consider this closely for an additional reason. Yesterday, Julie Gerberding, the director of the Federal Center of Disease Control and Prevention said, "Obesity is catching up to tobacco as the leading cause of death in America. If this trend continues, it will soon overtake tobacco. This is a tragedy," Gerberding said. "We are looking at this as a wake-up call," suggesting that over 500,000 deaths annually will occur due to obesity.
Now, in light of this scientific information, what is the first thing the House of Representatives does? It rushes to immunity for corporations, which may be appropriate in this particular case; but let us show a little care how we define which cases, so the people who die as a result of negligence and people asleep at the switch and their refusal to do what Congress told them to do are not swept up in this bill.
Mr. WATT. Reclaiming my time, I would just reiterate the points that the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) has made and suggest to him and the body and the chairman that it is unfortunate that the Committee on the Judiciary in the House has become the repository of everything essentially political. And so two things quite often result from that: number one, just about every vote is a party-line vote because we know that there is a political reason, not a substantive reason that the legislation is being put forward.
The CHAIRMAN pro tempore (Mr. Ose). The time of the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Watt) has expired.
(By unanimous consent, Mr. Watt was allowed to proceed for 2 additional minutes.)
Mr. WATT. Number two, it quite often puts us in a position of thinking, well, this legislation is not serious and it is not going anywhere anyway, and as happened with the legislation that has been referred to on several occasions here, well, the United States Senate, the more deliberative body, will bail us out and save us from ourselves.
I think that is a dangerous slippery slope that our committee has gotten on, and I wish there was some way to pull us back from that so that we would in our committee anticipate, have hearings, and deal with the kind of serious problem that has been identified by the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) here; and it would not be just a question of whether the sponsor of the bill thinks that this does not apply or may not apply. Maybe under those circumstances the committee and its members would look at what this stuff really says, the bill, look at the drafting of the bill. That is part of our responsibility as legislators, and it is even more a part of our responsibility as members of the Committee on the Judiciary; and I fear that we have failed in that responsibility.
Mr. SENSENBRENNER. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the requisite number of words.
Mr. Chairman, listening to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) I think shows the differences between those of us who support this legislation and those of us who oppose this legislation.
First, the example that he used relative to the professional baseball player who unfortunately passed away, this bill does not apply to. It is a complete unrelated argument and the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Keller) has pointed that out. But the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) persists on using this as an example. And then the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) quotes the story of the press conference that was held yesterday relative to obesity catching up to tobacco as the number one killer of people in the United States of preventable conditions.
Now, the problem with that attitude is that those who espouse it expect the government to take over personal responsibility. The victim always finds someone else to blame for his or her own behavior. And what this bill does is that it says, do not run off and file a lawsuit if you are too fat and you end up getting the diseases associated with obesity. It says, look in the mirror, because you are the one who is to blame. And I have referred twice to a doctor in North Carolina and to the woman who is the president of the American Council on Fitness and Nutrition in saying that if you are obese, do not get a lawyer. See your doctor. See a nutritionist. See a personal trainer. And what this bill does is it will pin the responsibility of those whose job it is to correct the problem to begin with and that is the person who caused the condition which could have been preventable.
Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Keller).
Mr. KELLER. Mr. Chairman, to go back to the gentleman from Washington's (Mr. Inslee) question about the diet drug, I have explained it does not apply. It talks about "a person's consumption of a qualified product." What is that? That is food under the definition. Food means articles used for food or drink, chewing gum and articles used or components of such article.
The second part of it is of a weight gain, obesity or any health condition that is associated with a person's weight gain. What are the health conditions associated with a person's weight gain? High cholesterol, for example, diabetes, for example, cardiovascular disease. This has nothing to do with diet drugs or labeling of diet drugs or mislabeling. Whatever that person's claim under State law for negligence can go forward and is completely and totally unrelated to this bill.
Mr. TIERNEY. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the requisite number of words.
Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee).
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I want to respond to my friend, the gentleman from Wisconsin's (Mr. Sensenbrenner) appropriate reference to the idea of accountability because, as I said, we on a bipartisan basis ought to be able to craft a bill that appropriately says if a person has information about their food and they are not personally responsible and become obese due to their own lack of personal responsibility, they should not have a claim. And I am first to say that, or second or third. But there is another personal accountability that the way this bill is drafted ignores. And that is that if the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Sensenbrenner) and I both voted for a bill that imposed a personal legal responsibility to put on every package of phenadrine or any other product that you can think of that says do not take this if you have history of a stroke, and they do not do this, and this is not a jury-imposed obligation, it is one imposed by the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Sensenbrenner) and myself, together, and they fail to do it, they ought to be held accountable because accountability and personal responsibility work two ways in our society.
Hold the person who has information about fatty products and they get fat because they are irresponsible, hold them accountable and they have no claim, and this bill should accomplish that end. But for the person who refuses to abide by the mandate of this Congress what to put on food products, they should be held accountable for their lack of responsibility; and this bill clearly obviates that in the language that says "any health condition that is associated with a person's weight gain or obesity." You are cutting off, perhaps unintentionally, claims for injury due to high blood pressure, stroke, cardiac arrest and a whole other group of diseases associated with weight gain.
Frankly, I do not think you are intending to do that. Because if I think that you think your constituents, if somebody fouls up a label and they die due to a stroke, I do not think you intend to cut that off; but you are doing it. And it is unfortunate, and I wish you would help me fix it.
