Public Statements
Iraq Watch
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 9, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


IRAQ WATCH -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. DELAHUNT. I yield to the gentleman from Washington.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, the sad fact is that our proud men and women are not being treated with adequate dignity and respect when they come back, and some do not come back from Iraq. There are a thousand frustrations that we have been hearing across the Districts. Let me just give you one. I think it is typical of what happened, a small instance.
I have been working with the family of a soldier who was killed. He drowned in the Tigris River while trying to save an Iraqi policeman when they were on patrol. He died a hero in the service of his country. We tried to get his brother in from the Philippines to go to his funeral. You would not think that would be too much to ask when a man gave his life for his country and his family lost a husband and a son for their family. We could not even get the State Department to let his brother in for the funeral of this American soldier. Now, this was incompetence of the highest order.
I want to point out two things from my District as I now meet with the families who are now sending their sons and daughters and husbands and wives in the biggest movement of American military since World War II. That is going on right now, and thousands and thousands of Reservists and National Guard personnel are leaving their families and their jobs to go to a multi-year mission that we have no definition how long it will be unfortunately, and what I hear from them is two things.
Number 1, they believe that they deserve an administration that will shoot straight with them when it comes to their duty in this war, and I hear over and over again that they believe they are getting the short end of the stick because they are not getting the straight scoop even today about what is going on in Iraq. I will give you an example.
I had lunch with a proud father whose son is a marine who is I think in Baghdad tonight, just left a few weeks ago, and he is proud of his son, rightfully so. But he told me in no uncertain terms that he has a very high level of anger that his son is going into harm's way on a war that was based and started on a false premise, a false premise about the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, and he says what he is most mad about is even today, when we know that premise was false, that the President of the United States continues to stonewall an inquiry to find out what happened in this sorry state of affairs.
[Time: 23:30]
That is what makes him angry; that when this Commission goes to look for this information, the President says, oh I do not have time, I will only give you an hour. He has time to go to rodeos; he has time to go to Ohio and time to fly to Florida, and he ought to have the time to answer the inquires of that father of that proud Marine who is in Baghdad tonight, and tell us why the Americans did not get the straight scoop when we went to Iraq?
This man told me this, and I thought this was an interesting comment because I would not think he would be thinking about fiscal issues while his son is in Baghdad, but he told me that he is angered that even today, when we are hundreds of billions of dollars into the Iraq expenditure, that even today, when this administration has run up a $500 billion deficit, the largest deficit in American history and that is getting larger by the minute, even when we know we are going to be in Iraq for goodness knows how long, the President of the United States has not been square with the American people as to how much it is going to cost.
We have a $500 billion deficit and we are spending billions of dollars today in Iraq. The President sends up to this Chamber a budget which is supposed to be an honest, forthright, meaningful prediction of the cost associated with running this government and he leaves out one thing, any money for fighting the Iraq war. Now, what does the White House think; that the American people do not know we are going to be spending billions of dollars in Iraq? This administration does not have the courage, I guess, to tell us how much it is going to cost or put $1 in their budget for it.
Mr. DELAHUNT. Mr. Speaker, everybody knows, we all know, on both sides of the aisle, that we will receive a so-called supplemental budget. And those that are watching us this evening should understand that that is in addition to the budget that we pass. And it is going to come in absolutely with hundreds of billions of dollars, not just for Iraq and Afghanistan, but for other needs, right after November 2.
END
