Public Statements
Announcement by the Speaker pro tempore
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 9, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. If the gentleman will continue to yield, just for a moment. I would suggest, too, that this is for the administration's own benefit. It is certainly for our citizens' benefit, but it is also for the administration's own benefit. When Lee Iacocca, CEO of Chrysler, found out they were putting rebuilt engines in their Mustangs instead of new ones, he admitted that his organization had made a massive mistake and requested forgiveness of the American people. Frankly, it was granted. But it is difficult for the father of the Marine I had lunch with, whose son is now in harm's way in Baghdad, to grant forgiveness when even yet the President will not shoot straight about, number one, the cost of the Iraq war; or, two, not help us find out why we were given such massively inaccurate information. That just continues to fester a wound in the body public of this democracy. It would be to this administration's benefit to come clean about this information.
And another thing that we want our conservative friends across the aisle to share a belief in is accountability. We hear a lot about accountability and personal responsibility on this floor, but when a war is started based on a false premise, as in this case and only one person has lost his job as a result of that, and that is a radio personality, nobody in this administration has lost their job, nobody has had their hand slapped, nobody has had their pay docked, nobody has had a single word from the President of the United States castigating them for sending our people, many of whom are not coming home from a war based on a falsity, this President needs to demand accountability from this government. As of today, he has given us zero accountability and only marginal help at finding the truth.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman would yield, I think it is important in this discussion to say we are as hopeful as credibility can allow for the ultimate outcome in Iraq. We are hopeful that this constitution in Iraq will bear benefits, that a stable government will develop in Iraq, that the Kurds will enter a federation and not end up in a civil war. We are hopeful that will happen.
But what we are saying is we need the administration to be honest with us and the American people so we can deal with challenges at home, one of which is this jobs issue. We could be creating thousands of good-paying jobs by creating new infrastructure, but we cannot do that because this administration has not been forthright with us about the true cost of the Iraq war. One of the reasons that we are not growing jobs in this country in transportation infrastructure is because the President has refused to be honest with us about the cost of the Iraq war.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. If the gentleman will yield, I would offer a theory perhaps as to why the administration has in numerous ways expressed kind of a tone deafness to the economic outcry to people going on concerned about their jobs.
You saw the administrative report basically saying that outsourcing was not a problem at all, which the White House then tried to disavow, even though the President signed the report which said that, which I saw in the Washington Post today. You saw various efforts by the administration to teach businesses how not to pay overtime to American employees, which I thought was a little bit not what most people would expect of our government to do and use our taxpayer dollars, to teach people not to pay legally-owed overtime. That is distressing.
So there is a lack of understanding, and I am not sure the administration understands the huge black cloud of doubt and worry out there, because the American people understand that even though there might be some good numbers out there in various economic indicators, the fact of the matter is, for the first time since Herbert Hoover was President, this President has not created one single net job in America, not one single net job in America.
We have lost over 2.5 million jobs. We have got to get 2.5 million jobs back before we can even claim that one new job has been created on a net basis in this country. This has created enormous anxiety, as it should, in our Nation, that then affects the people.
