Public Statements
United States Patent and Trademark Fee Modernization Act of 2003
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 3, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK FEE MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2003 -- (House of Representatives - March 03, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
(Mr. INSLEE asked and was given permission to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, this bill is consistent with an idea expressed by a former Member of this Chamber who did pretty well for himself, Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln said that the Patent Office adds the flame of interest to the light of creativity. And that is why we need to improve the effectiveness of our Patent Office. We need to do so because what we all recognize in this Chamber is one answer to the $64,000 question of how we are going to grow jobs in this country, is we are going to do this by playing to our American unique strength; and the uniquely American strength is we are the best innovators, we are the best technologists, we are the best creators for new devices the world has ever seen. And we need to play to this unique American strength in our strategy on how to deal with the development of the global economy. And this bill, although it will be little noted, it should be long remembered in our ability to play to that strength because we have people in every district in this country who today are working on inventions who will have the added flame of interest to their light of creativity.
Let me give the Members an example. I have got some folks this afternoon who are working on a potential drug in Bothell, Washington, that could potentially actually cure in a meaningful way one type of diabetes. Those folks who are laboring over their computers and bunsen burners today deserve an American Patent Office that will process patents in a timely fashion, which we simply do not have now. We do not want to see the time period move from a horrendous 2-year delay today up to a 4- or 6-year delay in 5 or 6 years.
So I want to show my appreciation for the chairman and the gentleman from California (Mr. Berman), who have worked on this to get this bill to the floor. It is one answer to how we are going to really compete in a global economy. Let us play to the American strength. Let us improve the Patent office. Let us grow jobs in this country.
