Public Statements
SemiAnnual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 11, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service February 11, 2004 Wednesday
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE HOUSE FINANCIAL SERVICE COMMITTEE

SUBJECT: SEMIANNUAL MONETARY POLICY REPORT TO THE CONGRESS

CHAIRED BY: REPRESENTATIVE MICHAEL OXLEY (R-OH)

LOCATION: 2128 RAYBURN HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
WITNESSES: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD CHAIRMAN ALAN GREENSPAN

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. JAY INSLEE (D-WA): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Doctor, we're glad you're here, because we need your help restoring some measure of fiscal sanity to the United States government. With the deficits that we're now running, over $500 billion, you know, I had one constituent the other day, he says, "You know, you guys look like-you make Enron look like Mother Teresa ran the shop." And the unfortunate situation is that with this exploding deficit, we still have those here in this administration and in Congress who want to continue on this glide path of continuing this course of adding debt to future generations and continuing to ignore the known fact that the baby boomers are coming and we're coming pretty soon.
In preparation for our discussion today, I thought it was useful to look at a little history. And so I looked at a little history. And if I could refer you to a chart over to your right, Doctor, this is a graph basically of our deficits starting in 1989. And to reference those who are looking at the graph, up is good, down is bad. When the graph is going down, the deficits are increasing.
If you look at the history of this thing, in '89 to '92 the deficit was increasing. And I don't mean to blame the first President Bush for that, because he actually did some things to try to reduce the deficit at the end of his term. And then from '92 to 2001, we saw us on a continuous-and surprisingly continuous and reliable improvement of our fiscal condition, surpluses up to the year 2000- 2001. And since that time, we have not seen a general-or gentle diminution of our fiscal process, we have seen a precipitous fall into deficits, down where we're $521 billion in the hole at this time.
And we are in a situation right now that some want to essentially continue the course of increasing spending, on the one side, and decreasing revenues, on the other. So I ask myself, well, maybe there's a reason for that. Maybe it's to create jobs.
So if we can look at the next graph, we'll look and see if these policies-what impact they had on our job creation in this country. And what this is is a graph of the job creation during respective presidents going back to Truman, 4.6 million increase; 1.9 million for Eisenhower; 4.7 million for Nixon; Reagan (none ?) -- 5.3 million in the first term, 9.3 million in the second. We get down to the last three years, and we see the first meaningful negative number of 3 million jobs lost net, again this last term of office.
So job creation has not been an excuse, if you will, for the creation of these enormous deficits.
So where do they go from here? Well, I need to ask your thoughts, because what we have seen and you alluded to in your testimony is you've alluded to an increase in spending, both in defense and in discretionary domestic during this current management of the U.S. government. But we've also seen attempts and future attempts to reduce the revenues of the United States government.
Now I just want to ask you a general question. Given the deficits that we have seen; given the fact that you and I both know this is a fantasy that we're going to cut them in half within five years, when we know that we haven't even included the costs of the Iraq war or the Afghanistan war or the AMT or the trip to Mars; given that we both know that, does it make sense, is it irresponsible, to continue on a course of greater spending and reduced federal revenues? And if not irresponsible, is it inadvisable? And if not inadvisable, is it risky? And if not risky, should we have a yellow flag up, which I hope you will show to this country, to change these policies from increased spending and decreased federal revenues?
MR. GREENSPAN: Well, Congressman, I think that much of what you have said and much of the concern that you've expressed is actually stated in the president's most recent budget document. In short, I certainly know that the financial people within this administration are acutely aware of all of these issues. And to my knowledge, the president is as well. So I have no reason to disbelieve that he is going to make every effort to in fact move in the direction which you're suggesting.
REP. INSLEE: Well, let me suggest a reason that I'm concerned about that. (To staff.) If we can have the next chart --
REP. OXLEY: The gentleman's time has expired. One more chart.
REP. INSLEE: Would you allow me 30 seconds or not, Mr. Chair?
REP. OXLEY: Of course.
REP. OXLEY: Thank you very much.
The reason I'm concerned is the president has suggested new spending, namely a war in Iraq, which is not in his budget, number one; and number two, we have folks here who are suggesting increased reductions in federal revenues. By making tax cuts permanent for upper-income folks, it will cost $1.3 trillion. We have new tax proposals in this budget of about $135 billion. And we have an increased debt service of over $700 billion associated with the new debt my constituents are paying due to the debt created on this president's watch.
So I guess the question is, is there some reason for concern if you believe, as I do, that these proposals have the prospect of reducing federal revenues over the long term?
MR. GREENSPAN: Congressman, the first thing I would do is something I regret we haven't done in the last year or two-is restore PAYGO and discretionary caps, because unless you get a budget process system in place which enables you to handle decision-making so that priorities can be constructed in the manner which will ultimately get you to where you want to go, I don't know how you do it.
And I remember-had a long, regrettable session before a committee of this House in September 2002, in which I urged that the then-expiring PAYGO and discretionary caps be reinstated, largely because, much to my surprise, they had been very successful in-during the period of their existence, in requiring evaluation by the Congress of various alternatives and recognizing that there is double- entry bookkeeping that one is required to adhere to; that you-the books have to balance in one way or another, or you have to borrow.
And so I think it's step number one. That's what I think ought to be done.
REP. INSLEE: Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
