Public Statements
Estate Tax and Extension of Tax Relief Act of 2006
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Aug. 20, 1982
Location: Washington, DC


ESTATE TAX AND EXTENSION OF TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2006 -- (House of Representatives - July 28, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. The only people in the State of Washington whose wages will be affected by this bill, should it pass, will have their minimum wage decreased. Every single worker who receives tips in the State of Washington will have their minimum wage decreased $1.78 an hour as a result of this ridiculous bill. Seven States are in the same position: Alaska, California, Minnesota, Montana, Nevada, Oregon and Washington. In seven States in this country, the only people who will be affected by this bill are those who will get their minimum wage slashed.
Where is the Republican desire to slash the minimum wage and call it an increase in the minimum wage? That is what you have written into this bill.
Now, we realize this bill isn't going to pass, and you think you are going to get relief from the voters because you voted for this when it isn't going to pass. Well, if it did pass, you would be cutting the minimum wage in the State of Washington by $1.78 an hour. The people who feed you, when you take your $30,000 pay increases we all have had over the last several years, you take your $30,000 pay increases, and you tell the people that serve your tostadas and your spaghetti that you can cut their minimum wage by $1.78 an hour. If you doubt me, ask Molly on your staff. She will tell you I am right. I don't know who the brilliant guy was who thought that that is good policy in this country. We Democrats think it is a very bad idea.
The situation is, you're not going to deliver a minimum wage of any dimension because of the way you packaged this, because you don't want to see a minimum-wage increase. That is why you packaged this with a poison pill. And this is not going to work for you, because mailmen who don't deliver the mail get punished. And you will be punished for this this November.
I will just say one thing: when you cut the minimum wage for restaurant tip workers in this country, I will say this, it is bad enough when you don't do a minimum-wage bill; it is worse when you do. The point I want to make is this bill is not going to pass because they put a poison pill in it. But I want to make sure people understand in the States of Washington, Montana, Nevada, California, those States, that if it did pass, they would be cutting restaurant workers.
Do you want to challenge that, Mr. Hayworth? I will yield to you. If you think that is wrong, you can walk up to your staff member and she will tell you that you are cutting restaurant workers $1.78 in the State of Washington. If you disagree with that, I will show you page 181 of your bill.
Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. INSLEE. I yield to the gentleman from Arizona.
Mr. HAYWORTH. Is the gentleman familiar with four letters, E-I-T-C, earned income tax credit?
Mr. INSLEE. I am.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. McCRERY. I yield to the gentleman from Washington.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, what we want to point out and we want to make sure, because I think I have confirmed this with the Republican staff, the way this works, if this bill passes, in the State of Washington the minimum wage goes down the next day $1.78 an hour.
The gentleman is correct. If the State legislature got together and essentially overrode the Republicans in Congress, they might be able to get it back up where it was. But you know what? You Republicans in the State legislature, I say ``you,'' Republican-controlled legislators, I will give you a clue: it is not going to happen. That is why we object to cutting the minimum wage in any State by any Congress of any party.
Unfortunately, that is what you are doing. You can confirm it with counsel. That is why we think it is an abomination.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
