Public Statements
Media Consolidation
By: Jay Inslee
Location: Unknown


Media Consolidation
Americans understand intrinsically that one fundamental freedom that makes this country great is our right to free speech and our right to hear a diversity of views. In today's society, these diverse views are disseminated primarily by the media on publicly owned airwaves. I believe that our democracy is strong partly because this media diversity which necessarily allows public dissention regardless of which party is in power, while even a diverse media at times may end up succumbing to "group think" and failed to express dissention. A less diversified media will surely be more likely to carry the prevailing opinions of the moment and fail to help enlighten society. Not only would our democracy be weaker if such expressions were not allowed, but it would be a great disservice to the American people if one could not find diverse expressions on the airwaves.
The issue of media consolidation has risen to a prominent level in policy discussions recently as a result of the actions of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and its Chairman, Michael Powell. The FCC has attempted to further deregulate the media ownership rules. The FCC, led by Powell, issued new regulations designed to allow large media conglomerates to own and control more news sources and a larger share of our public airwaves. This policy change would effectively allow fewer and fewer people to control a larger and larger share of an individual media market, including allowing newspapers companies and broadcast TV stations to share the same owner, thus homogenized the views expressed by the media.
The media consolidation rules that the FCC has pushed will benefit the few, powerful media conglomerates that can afford to buy more than a reasonable share of a particular market at the expense of the American people's access to a variety of view-points. Our airwaves are owned by the American taxpayers, and our longstanding rules on their ownership has traditionally ensured local ownership, a diversity of voices, and kept open the channels of public accountability.
The FCC's new rules for media ownership can be broken down into the following four basic categories:
