Public Statements
Inslee Invites State Employees to Celebrate Public Service Recognition Week
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 29, 2016
Location: Olympia, WA

Gov. Jay Inslee today invited Washington state employees to celebrate Public Service Recognition Week, May 1--7. Celebrations will take place in Olympia, Kennewick and Spokane.
"Public employees work hard every day to serve the people of Washington, and I'm glad for this opportunity to acknowledge their outstanding efforts," Inslee said. "Public Service Recognition Week celebrates their work and highlights the value of public service."
Wednesday, May 4
11 AM
Location: East Plaza Lawn of the Capitol Campus (across from the Capitol Building), Olympia
Thursday, May 5
11:30 AM
Location: National Guard Readiness Center (1626 N. Rebecca St., Spokane)
5:30 PM
Location: Southridge Sports Complex (2901 Southridge Blvd., Kennewick)
A key goal of Inslee's Results Washington initiative is improving Washington as an employer of choice, including fostering a culture of respect, feedback and recognition.
At the events, employees have an opportunity to celebrate the achievements of their peers, get information on new benefits and programs and learn about charities supported by state employees.
Employees will also be able to view the Top 10 winning entries in the Why Washington? contest. Employees across the state were invited to share why they work for the state of Washington. Videos will be posted on the PRSW web site and shown at the Olympia event on the East Plaza lawn.
Event sponsors in Olympia are the Washington State Employees Credit Union and Local 443 of the Washington Federation of State Employees. Last year, more than 2,000 employees attended.
Employees and their families are also invited to attend Washington State Employees Annual Mariners Day on Saturday May 14. Discounted tickets will be available for Washington State employees through May 6.

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news-media/inslee-invites-state-employees-celebrate-public-service-recognition-week
