Public Statements
Inslee Announces National Foundation For Governors' Fitness Councils To Tackle Childhood Obesity In Washington, Reward Innovative Programs
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 21, 2016
Location: Olympia, WA

Gov. Jay Inslee announced today that Washington has been selected for the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils campaign called National Fitness Champion to fight childhood obesity.
"Every child deserves to grow up healthy. That is why I launched the Healthiest Next Generation Initiative. I encourage every elementary and middle school in Washington to compete in this great opportunity. Now together with the fitness councils, we are helping to ensure our children and grandchildren get fit and stay fit for healthier, longer, more rewarding lives."
Gov. Jay Inslee
"It's inspiring to see elected leaders such as Gov. Inslee immediately jump on board and welcome us into the great state of Washington. The fight to stop childhood obesity in its tracks is a cause that everyone can back. In fact, every state leader whom I've met with recognizes that obesity is not a partisan issue -- it's a kids issue -- and all have vowed to do everything possible to help. Now, Washington schools have an opportunity to make a change that will have a lasting impact on kids well into their future."
Jake Steinfeld, Chair of the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils
Gov. Jay Inslee announced today that Washington has been selected for the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils campaign called National Fitness Champion to fight childhood obesity. The campaign recognizes elementary and middle schools for demonstrating innovative ways of introducing physical activity and wellness in their curriculum.
"Every child deserves to grow up healthy," Inslee said. "That is why I launched the Healthiest Next Generation Initiative. I encourage every elementary and middle school in Washington to compete in this great opportunity. Now together with the fitness councils, we are helping to ensure our children and grandchildren get fit and stay fit for healthier, longer, more rewarding lives."
Three Washington state schools, to be selected by the fitness councils as competition winners, will each be awarded a $100,000 state-of-the-art fitness center for their efforts. The nomination process opens today and runs through the end of May.
"It's inspiring to see elected leaders such as Gov. Inslee immediately jump on board and welcome us into the great state of Washington," said Jake Steinfeld, chair of the national group. "The fight to stop childhood obesity in its tracks is a cause that everyone can back. In fact, every state leader whom I've met with recognizes that obesity is not a partisan issue -- it's a kids issue -- and all have vowed to do everything possible to help. Now, Washington schools have an opportunity to make a change that will have a lasting impact on kids well into their future."
The National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils program will make its way to all 50 states in the coming years. The foundation's goal is to build a nation of the fittest, healthiest kids in the world.
Each fitness center awarded is financed through public/private partnerships with such companies as Coca-Cola, Amerigroup Foundation and Nike, and does not rely on taxpayer dollars or state funding. TuffStuff Fitness International provides all the fitness equipment.
About the Healthiest Next Generation Initiative
Gov. Inslee launched the Healthiest Next Generation Initiative in 2014. The initiative offers the opportunity for community organizations, businesses, state and local agencies and other partners to collaborate under a common goal: help our children to eat well, maintain a healthy weight and enjoy active lives by promoting healthful choices in early learning settings, schools and communities.
Learn more about the Healthiest Next Generation in schools and join the conversation at #HealthiestNextGen.
About the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils
The National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils seeks to encourage and reward innovation in the field of youth fitness by awarding fitness centers to schools that use new and unique methods to promote student physical activity and wellness. The NFGFC envisions a fitness center in every school in the United States, helping to build a nation that -- through innovation and a "don't quit" attitude -- boasts the fittest kids in the world. Since 2012, the NFGFC has delivered fitness centers in Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Texas, Virginia, Washington, D.C. and West Virginia.

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news-media/inslee-announces-national-foundation-governors%E2%80%99-fitness-councils-tackle-childhood-obesity
