Public Statements
Inslee Calls For Renewed Action Toward Gender Equality on International Women's Day
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 8, 2016
Location: Olympia, WA

Gov. Jay Inslee today celebrated International Women's Day by reaffirming his commitment to achieving pay equity for women in Washington state and equality for women in state government. Inslee signed a proclamation on efforts to reduce the pay gap and issued an executive order reiterating his support for the work of the Interagency Committee of State Employed Women.
"International Women's Day is an occasion to honor how far we've come in the fight for women's equality and to recommit our efforts. In 2016, women still face a pay gap, unequal representation in government and business leadership, and other systemic barriers to full success and health. Promoting equality leads to stronger and healthier families, stronger communities and a stronger economy. I'm proud of Washington's record in advancing women's rights and hope we can continue to lead in breaking down and rebuilding the systems that have disadvantaged women for too long."
Governor Inslee
OLYMPIA -- Gov. Jay Inslee today celebrated International Women's Day by reaffirming his commitment to achieving pay equity for women in Washington state and equality for women in state government. Inslee signed a proclamation on efforts to reduce the pay gap and issued an executive order reiterating his support for the work of the Interagency Committee of State Employed Women.
"International Women's Day is an occasion to honor how far we've come in the fight for women's equality and to recommit our efforts," Inslee said. "In 2016, women still face a pay gap, unequal representation in government and business leadership, and other systemic barriers to full success and health. Promoting equality leads to stronger and healthier families, stronger communities and a stronger economy. I'm proud of Washington's record in advancing women's rights and hope we can continue to lead in breaking down and rebuilding the systems that have disadvantaged women for too long."
Inslee's executive order affirms the work of the Interagency Committee of State Employed Women, created 10 years ago by Gov. Chris Gregoire.
The executive order calls upon the committee to examine and define issues pertaining to the rights and needs of women employed in state government. It also calls for policy recommendations to be made to the governor and state agencies on desirable changes in programs and laws, especially in the areas of education, training, career development and other conditions of employment.
Inslee's appointments since Jan. 1, 2015, are 48 percent female and 52 percent male, which represent an increase year to year. This is representative of all the governor's appointed positions and includes his cabinet, all judicial appointments and appointments made to boards and commissions.

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news-media/inslee-calls-renewed-action-toward-gender-equality-international-women%E2%80%99s-day
