Public Statements
Inslee and Bipartisan Group of U.S. Governors Sign Accord with Chinese Governors to Promote Clean Energy Technology and Economic Development
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 22, 2015
Location: Unknown

Gov. Jay Inslee today, along with four other U.S. governors, met with Chinese President Xi Jinping and six Chinese governors and leaders to discuss opportunities for collaboration on clean energy technology and economic development.
American and Chinese participants in the forum signed an agreement to work together to advance economic development opportunities related to renewable and clean energy technology in their respective jurisdictions. The Governors' Clean Energy and Economic Development Accord establishes an agreement to collaborate on commercialization and deployment of clean and renewable energy technologies, promote energy efficiency, advance smart grid infrastructure, reduce transportation emissions, and improve air quality.
"We have a shared opportunity and interest in helping lead the world in the transition to a clean energy future," Inslee said. "It's encouraging to see governors from different sides of the ocean, and different sides of the aisle, coming together to do our part to make sure our children will thrive in a forward-thinking economy that reflects our commitment to protecting our air and water."
The bipartisan group of U.S. governors included Governor Jay Inslee (D-Washington), Governor Jerry Brown (D-California), Governor Terry Branstad (R-Iowa), Governor Rick Snyder (R-Michigan), and Governor Kate Brown (D-Oregon). Governor Brian Sandoval (R-Nevada), who was unable to attend the meeting in person, also signed the accord. Chinese governors in attendance were Beijing Mayor Wang Anshun, Chongqing Mayor Huang Qifan, Shaanxi Governor Lou Qinjian, Shandong Governor Guo Shuqing, Sichuan Party Secretary Wang Dongming, and Zhejiang Governor Li Qiang.

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news-media/inslee-and-bipartisan-group-us-governors-sign-accord-chinese-governors-promote-clean
