Public Statements
Letter to Members of Washington State Congressional Delegation - Oppose the American Health Care Act
Letter
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 2, 2017
Location: Unknown

Dear Members of the Washington State Congressional Delegation:
As Governor of the State of Washington, I am writing again to urge you to oppose H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act (AHCA). This legislation would result in hundreds of thousands of Washingtonians losing their health coverage and would also remove the guarantee that ensures people with pre-existing conditions can obtain, and afford, health care. The AHCA would cause dramatic harm to our state.
Last month Republican Congressional Leaders failed to garner enough support to pass the AHCA in the House of Representatives. Since that time one amendment was added to the bill to allow states to opt-out of federal health care guarantees that prevent insurers from charging more for people who get sick or who have pre-existing conditions. Our state has no interest in making health coverage less affordable or secure for our citizens, and I don't believe any state should be given the opportunity to do so.
The rest of the AHCA remains as problematic as it was one month ago. And its enactment would be a disaster for the health care of the people of our state, as well as our state's economy and budget. The AHCA would result in approximately 72,000-100,000 Washingtonians losing their current private health care insurance, and over 600,000 individuals losing their coverage under our state's Medicaid program unless our state can find $1.4 billion in new revenue each year. It would also undermine care for children and take hundreds of millions out of long-term care and services for individuals with developmental disabilities. These changes would result in significant harm to the physical and fiscal health of the people of our state. And I know you can appreciate that our state cannot afford these enormous federal cost-shifts -- particularly at this time.
Enclosed, as a reminder, please find the letter Washington Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler and I sent to you in March, detailing our significant concerns with the AHCA. Each of these concerns remain.

Source:
