Public Statements
Letter to John A. Boehner, Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, House Minority Leader, Harry Reid, Senate Minority Leader - Export-Import Bank Reauthorization
Letter
By: Dan Malloy Steve Beshear Kate Brown Maggie Hassan John Hickenlooper Dennis Daugaard Tom Wolf Robert Bentley Joe Manchin III Alejandro Padilla Gina Raimondo Jay Inslee Peter Shumlin Eddie Calvo Steve Bullock Mark Dayton Bill Walker Terry McAuliffe Jack Markell Jerry Brown, Jr. Mary Fallin Charlie Baker Paul LePage Nikki Haley David Ige Butch Otter Susana Martinez
Date: April 14, 2015
Location: Unknown

"Dear Speaker Boehner, Leader McConnell, Leader Pelosi and Leader Reid:
As governors of states whose economies and workforces depend on exports, we strongly urge you to support legislation that provides for the long-term reauthorization of the U.S. Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank) before its charter expires on June 30, 2015. The Ex-Im Bank is a crucial tool that both small and large businesses use to compete fairly in the world market, increase their exports, stimulate job creation, and contribute to the growth of our states' economies.
As the official export credit agency of the United States, the Ex-Im Bank assumes the credit and country risks that private sector lenders are unable or unwilling to accept, and without it, U.S. firms would lose many sales to overseas competitors. The Ex-Im Bank allows our companies and workers to compete on a level playing field against international competitors who receive extensive support from their own export credit agencies.
As the economies of our states continue to grow, the Ex-Im Bank is currently playing a vital role in promoting exports and jobs. In federal fiscal year 2014, the Ex-Im Bank supplied more than $20 billion in financing to support approximately $27 billion in exports. In that same fiscal year, the Ex-Im Bank supported more than 160,000 American jobs. And the overwhelming majority of the Ex-Im Bank's transactions -- nearly 90 percent -- assisted small businesses.















Source:
