Public Statements
Gov. Inslee welcomes Juno Therapeutics' headquarters in Seattle
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 16, 2015
Location: Seattle, WA

Gov. Jay Inslee today joined Juno Therapeutics CEO Hans Bishop and Seattle Mayor Ed Murray at an event celebrating the company's announcement that they have selected Seattle for their new headquarters.
Juno was established with the goal of leading the innovation, development and delivery of cellular therapeutics with the potential to transform the lives of patients with cancer. Towards that goal, Juno has brought together innovative cell-based immunotherapy technologies from some of the world's leading research institutions, including the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle Children's Research Institute, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and The National Cancer Institute. The company completed a successful IPO last year and continues to make significant progress in building a world class science and clinical organization.
"Juno represents a new era of life science technology being developed right here in Washington state, and we are thrilled to welcome them as an anchor tenant in our life science community," Gov. Inslee said. "We are committed to supporting Juno and companies in this sector by building a stronger, more robust ecosystem, and leveraging our current strengths in research and a talented scientific workforce."
"Today, I am pleased to announce that Juno Therapeutics has decided to locate its new headquarters in Seattle and to continue our work in Washington state, a state that has advanced cancer treatment and care for over 100 years," said Juno CEO and President Hans Bishop. "I would like to thank Governor Inslee for personally engaging the company and directing his Department of Commerce to work with us. As we enter our next stage of growth, we are delighted to continue our working partnership with state and local leaders who are committed to strengthening the life sciences ecosystem with investments in STEM education, transportation, and our research institutions."
The company is currently evaluating potential sites and will soon have a decision on exact location, Bishop said.
"The announcement today reaffirms Seattle's growing standing as a growing hub for biotechnology and life sciences innovation. Juno is leading the charge in the revolutionary arena of immunotherapy treatments and offers a dramatic new era for cancer patients," said Seattle Mayor Ed Murray. "Seattle has always been a place of big ideas, where innovation is in our blood. Companies like Juno truly embody this pioneering spirit as they strive to change the lives of cancer patients and their families all over the world."
Washington state's life sciences sector has more than 500 companies and over 34,000 skilled workers. The state has benefitted from nearly $1 billion in grants from the National Institutes of Health and is home to some of the most well-known life sciences and global health organizations in the world, including Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, the Allen Institute for Brain Science, the Gates Foundation and many others.

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news-media/gov-inslee-welcomes-juno-therapeutics%E2%80%99-headquarters-seattle
