Public Statements
Lean Management Initiative Is Making State Government More Efficient
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Oct. 21, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Jay Inslee's initiative to improve state government services is showing results.
The latest data shows state agencies are using lean management principles and tools, pioneered by the private sector, to improve customer service, save time, avoid costs and cut through backlogs.
"I've seen firsthand how well lean management works at places like Boeing and Virginia Mason Hospital, and now we're seeing it work in state government too," said Inslee. "We're putting those same principles and techniques to work and seeing wait times go down, red tape being reduced, and money being saved."
Inslee highlighted some of those results Tuesday at a 2,700-person lean conference in Tacoma. Among them:
-Faster turnaround times for public records
-A much-simpler tax form for small businesses
-Cutting the time it takes to issue transportation permits
-Increasing the number of WorkFirst clients actively looking for work
-Overhauling the state's long-distance network, saving $2 million
-Saving employers $1.7 million in interest
-Eliminating a large backlog in collision reports
Pioneered by Toyota, lean focuses on customer service, solving problems at their root cause, measuring results and building a culture of employee-led continual improvement.
"The people closest to the work often have the best ideas about how to improve it," said Inslee. "They hear directly from our customers. By harnessing their ideas and expertise, we can improve services and deliver more value to Washingtonians."
Inslee launched his lean initiative, Results Washington, last year. It's focused not just on government efficiency, but also on improvements in education, the economy, environment, energy, health and safety.
"We're building a healthier, more prosperous, better educated Washington," said Inslee. "That won't happen overnight. We're trying to maintain aging infrastructure. We're coming out of the worst recession most of us have ever known. But I believe in the power of high expectations. And we're building a culture of continual improvement that will help us get there."
Examples of specific improvements at agencies are detailed below.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news/releases/article.aspx?id=362
