Public Statements
Gov. Inslee Unveils New Aerospace Video in Advance of Farnborough Air Show
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 8, 2014
Location: Olympia, WA

Today, Gov. Jay Inslee, the Washington Aerospace Partnership and the Washington State Department of Commerce released a new video showcasing the breadth and depth of the state's aerospace industry.
The high-energy video was funded by the Washington Aerospace Partnership and produced by Seattle-based The Fearey Group. It will be shown on a large display in the Washington Pavilion at the Farnborough International Air Show, which will also be the largest physical space the state has ever had at Farnborough.
"We have a lot to be proud of," said Alex Pietsch, director of the state's Office of Aerospace. "This video tells the whole story, from the huge role Washington plays in the success of Boeing Commercial Airplanes production to emerging sectors of the industry like space exploration and aviation biofuels."
The video features clips from Boeing Commercial Airplanes, Boeing subsidiary Insitu, Inc., Mukilteo-based Electroimpact, Bellevue-based Planetary Resources Inc., and Washington State University. It also highlights key statistics such as the fact that Washington has 15 times the number of aerospace workers than the U.S. average and 25 percent of all U.S. aerospace exports are made in Washington.
"We are proud to be able to fund production of this video," said Bob Drewel, president of the Washington Aerospace Partnership. "We build the 777X in Washington, now we want to do everything we can to grow and diversify aerospace jobs in Washington. We wish Governor Inslee and his delegation great luck at Farnborough!"
The video is showcased on a new blog where the governor and members of his delegation will be sharing insights from his upcoming trade mission to the Farnborough International Air Show.
"I look forward to sharing my observations from Farnborough through this blog," Inslee said. "We already know aerospace is a global industry. I look forward to helping spread the word about Washington's significant role on the international stage."
In addition to the governor, other contributors to the blog include Brian Bonlender, director of the Washington State Department of Commerce, Pietsch and Washington state delegates. People are also encouraged to follow the governor and his delegation's activities on Twitter with the hashtag #watrade14.
Gov. Inslee's delegation to Farnborough, which includes business executives, economic development professionals and local government and academic leaders from around the state, departs from Seattle on July 11.
Inslee will open the Washington state exhibit at the 2014 Farnborough International Air Show, which kicks off July 14. Farnborough and the Paris Air Show are widely considered the largest global aerospace industry events. The two events take place on alternate years.
About the Washington Aerospace Partnership
The Washington Aerospace Partnership exists to allow leaders from business, labor and local government to work together to support and grow the aerospace cluster in Washington state. After successfully leading the charge to help Boeing win the KC-46A aerial refueling tanker and 737 MAX, the WAP incorporated as a non-profit corporation in 2012 and will continue to help execute the Washington State Aerospace Industry Strategy and realize its vision of Washington--the recognized worldwide center of excellence in aerospace innovation, design, and manufacturing.

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news/releases/article.aspx?id=291
