Public Statements
Inslee, State Leaders Launch Comprehensive Review of State's Criminal Justice System
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 24, 2014
Location: Olympia, WA

Gov. Jay Inslee was joined today by a bipartisan group of state leaders to sign an executive order launching a comprehensive study of the state's criminal justice system that will identify ways to address growing pressures on the prison system and boost public safety. The executive order establishes an inter-branch, bipartisan Justice Reinvestment Task Force to guide the study.
"Washington is a recognized leader in innovative and effective criminal justice policy, and we've seen how smart investments in our system can pay off," Inslee said. "We're forecasted to need another 1,000 prison beds by 2018, and I think this is the right time to take a step back, take a deep look at our current system and talk about opportunities to effectively leverage our public safety dollars. I'm hopeful the work of this task force will reveal the drivers of prison growth so we can develop strategies to address them while continuing to improve public safety consistent with our Results Washington goal measure of reducing recidivism."
Washington's corrections facilities now operate at 2 percent over capacity. That number is expected to swell by 9 percent between 2013 and 2023. This projected prison population growth would require between $387 million and $481 million in construction and operating expenses.
"Keeping our residents safe is a top priority, and we can do more to increase safety in Washington," said Senate Republican Leader Mark Schoesler. "In 2012, Washington had the third-highest property crime rate in the country. We have to understand the unique challenges in our state so we can develop more effective policies that will reduce crime and better protect the Washington public."
The task force comprises 21 representatives from the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government, in addition to key state and local criminal justice stakeholders. The task force will be led by Sen. Jim Hargrove, D-Hoquiam and Nick Brown, Inslee's general counsel. The Council of State Governments Justice Center, in partnership with The Pew Charitable Trusts and the U.S. Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Assistance, will provide technical assistance to the task force.

Source:
