Public Statements
Governor and UK Delegation Hold Follow Up Meeting on Climate Partnership
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 15, 2014
Location: Unknown

Washington Gov. Jay Inslee and a delegation of United Kingdom officials will meet in Seattle and Olympia this week as they continue to work under a clean energy partnership signed by the two governments last year.
The UK delegation will join the meeting of the governor's Carbon Emissions Reduction Taskforce which is advising the governor on market based mechanisms for reducing carbon pollution. The UK delegation will brief the taskforce on carbon markets worldwide. The UK funded a consultant who will brief the taskforce.
The joint declaration signed in Seattle last September called for Washington state and the UK to enhance their collaboration on market-based mechanisms for reducing carbon emission, clean energy investments, energy efficiency strategies, clean transportation and more.
The agreement was signed by the governor and UK Energy and Climate Change Minister Greg Barker.
"This collaboration has already proven itself useful as we begin to craft the best possible program to fight climate change," Inslee said. "I want to offer my sincere thanks to the Minister and his government for investing in our success. This is an opportunity for us to work together to show the world that tackling climate change and creating sustainable jobs go hand in hand."
The UK is currently implementing a groundbreaking energy bill to decarbonize its electricity sector by 2050. This forms part of a suite of measures to fulfill the UK's ambitious emissions reduction targets.
"The UK government is committed to building a low carbon future as part of our long-term economic plan for jobs and growth," said Mr. Barker. "Washington State has clearly shown that it is stepping up to the challenge in the global fight against climate change. I welcome our continued partnership in sharing the skills and expertise needed to tackle this most crucial of issues."

Source:
