Public Statements
ABC "This Week with George Stephanopoulos" - Transcript: Superbowl Security and Legalizing Marijuana
Interview
By: Jay Inslee John Hickenlooper
Date: Feb. 2, 2014
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
STEPHANOPOULOS: And we move now to the two governments most at stake tonight, John Hickenlooper from Colorado for the Broncos, Jay Inslee from Washington for the Seahawks, both at MetLife today.
And Governor Hickenlooper, security first. Are you satisfied everything is safe?
HICKENLOOPER: Oh, yes. I think they've done everything you could possibly do. We did the Democratic convention in 2008, which is another one of these level one security events, and you just have to put in the time and the effort. And they clearly have.
STEPHANOPOULOS: Were you consulted, Governor Inslee?
INSLEE: Yes, I'm very confident in our security. Thomas, Chancellor, Sherman, they've got a total interception (inaudible) so we got good security.
(LAUGHTER)
STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, you go right to the game, Inslee. You're feeling good about the defense.
(CROSSTALK)
INSLEE: -- we're concentrating on out here.
STEPHANOPOULOS: Governor Hickenlooper, how about Peyton Manning? Is he going to make history today?
HICKENLOOPER: Well, Peyton Manning already has made history. I think he's going to add to his history. You know he is one of those people that it's not just what he does on the field, but what he does off the field that's so incredible. And he's become I think an inspiration for this -- for Colorado.
We had the floods, we are rebuilding roads, we had to hurry,, hurry, you know get people back in their houses as quick as we could.
STEPHANOPOULOS: So you're confident, Governor Inslee. What are you betting?
INSLEE: You know, we don't have a particular bet, but we have honored our two states -- Governor Hickenlooper has named his 14,000 foot peaks over individual Broncos. But we're kind of more of a team oriented team, so we've named Mount Ranier, Mount Seattle Seahawks because we kind of think team in our state.
STEPHANOPOULOS: I know you guys are going to have a lot of fun tonight. You're of course looking forward to it as well.
Before you go, you know, later in the program we're going to be bringing a panel of experts on this whole issue of legalizing marijuana. Your two states are in the forefront of that right now.
Governor Hickenlooper, let me begin with you. You opposed to referendum, but a few weeks into the experiment are your fears being realized? And what's the biggest challenge going forward?
HICKENLOOPER: Well, I think that, again, anyone who opposed it -- and there are a lot of good reasons to oppose it -- we now have I think an obligation -- the voters passed if 55-45 -- to make we do it properly. And I think that means we make sure kids under the age of 21 don't get it. A lot of those top scientists think that you can lose long-term memory if you're taking this high THC marijuana. I have to make sure people are driving when they're high.
You know, make sure that we regulate it like we do alcohol, right. That we have the resources necessary to keep it out of the hands of kids and keep our community safe.
STEPHANOPOULOS: And Governor Inslee, your sales start later this year. You're learning anything yet from the Colorado experience?
INSLEE: Yeah, a little bit. I think ours states are doing a good job of having a very well regulated market. Both our governors are very interested in making sure we educate our kids about some dangers associated with this like with alcohol. And I think -- I think things are going well in both states.
And I want to give a (inaudible) to the Obama administration who has been working, I think, in a very responsible way in allowing the states to move forward. States are the laboratories of democracy throughout American history. And I think we are now looking for a new approach to this issue. So I think both things are going well.
And I do want to say that we want to have a well regulated system. And it is going to be that in both states. I think we're both going to achieve success here.
STEPHANOPOULOS: Good luck with that. And have fun tonight to both of you. Thank you, gentleman.

Source: http://abcnews.go.com/ThisWeek/week-transcript-rep-paul-ryan/story?id=22327723&page=2
