Public Statements
Governor Inslee Directs Health Care Authority, Department of Health to Streamline State's Approach to Employee Wellness
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Nov. 21, 2013
Location: Unknown

Washington state government is taking a giant step to improve its employee wellness programs under an ambitious plan outlined in a new Executive Order by Governor Jay Inslee.
"Preventing illness is the best way to improve health and save money on health care," said Gov. Inslee. "I'm committed to doing everything I can to help the people of our state live longer, healthier lives. This executive order makes the health and wellness of state employees a priority, and sets the tone for government agencies and businesses around the state."
The state's commitment to a healthier workforce may also be good news for taxpayers. A wellness program for King County employees included a similar focus on healthy eating and other preventive health components. It led to a $14.6 million reduction in health care spending from 2007 to 2011.
Under the governor's order, a State Employee Health and Wellness Steering Committee will be formed to develop a comprehensive wellness program for state employees for implementation by January 1, 2014. The committee will be co-chaired by Health Care Authority Director Dorothy Teeter and Secretary of Health John Wiesman.
Executive Order No. 13-06 focuses on three key areas to improve health: providing wellness assistance to all state agencies so they can create their own effective wellness programs, incorporating wellness in state employee health insurance plans, and requiring state agencies to develop and implement healthy food and beverage policies.
The new Wellness Worksite Designation Program will provide technical and training assistance to state agencies, helping them develop wellness programs for their employees. All agencies will report on their efforts every six months, with a goal of significant progress by the end of 2014. As part of the order, agencies also must accommodate women who breastfeed by providing reasonable break times and a location free from view and intrusion.

Source:
