Public Statements
Governors Inslee, Kitzhaber Announce Final Mitigation Agreement on Columbia River Crossing
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee John Kitzhaber
Date: Aug. 29, 2013
Location: Unknown

Washington Governor Jay Inslee and Oregon Governor John Kitzhaber today announced an agreement with Thompson Metal Fab, Inc. to mitigate potential impacts of construction of a new I-5 bridge across the Columbia River. The agreement is the final of three mitigation agreements with Vancouver manufacturers and a crucial development in the effort to replace the aging Columbia River Crossing.
"Thompson Metal Fab is a vital partner in maintaining our state's manufacturing sector," said Washington Gov. Jay Inslee. "They depend on a navigable river as well as an interstate freeway that carries goods and people safely and efficiently. I couldn't be more pleased they will have the opportunity to continue to invest in their businesses and we hope to see the company thrive in Washington state for years to come."
In January 2013, the joint Oregon and Washington Columbia River Crossing project submitted a general bridge permit application to United States Coast Guard. The application described the economic and transportation benefits of the project and proposed mitigation for potential impacts on the fabricators' navigation-dependent operations.
In May 2013, the states signed agreements with Oregon Iron Works, Inc. and Greenberry Industrial, LLC, manufacturers whose operations would be affected by a new bridge. The three mitigation agreements will be submitted as part of the Coast Guard permit application by August 30. The Coast Guard will issue a permit decision by September 30, 2013.
"Safe and reliable travel on I-5 is a crucial economic driver for both states, and we must do everything possible to build this bridge and remain competitive in this global marketplace," said Oregon Gov. John Kitzhaber. "I'm pleased by the deliberative process the state and the businesses are undertaking to develop these agreements and bring us closer to construction."
Some shipments from Thompson Metal Fab, Oregon Iron Works and Greenberry Industrial could be affected by the proposed bridge, which will have a maximum height of 116 feet. The Oregon Department of Transportation has been in discussions with the company, to determine how to mitigate the potential impacts while protecting the family-wage jobs they generate.
The aging I-5 bridges, built in 1917 and 1958, must be replaced to protect the drivers who make 128,000 daily trips across the span. The bridge is a critical component of the freight corridor that connects Canada to Mexico. More than $40 billion in freight crosses the bridge annually.

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news/releases/article.aspx?id=143
