Public Statements
Governor Inslee announces new cabinet appointments
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 29, 2013
Location: Olympia, WA

Governor Jay Inslee today announced his picks to head up the state's Health Care Authority, Department of Commerce and Military Department.
Brian Bonlender will serve as Director of the Department of Commerce. Bonlender served as Inslee's chief-of-staff and legislative director, running the congressman's office and acting as his primary advisor on economic issues. He worked on legislation and policy in a range of industries including agriculture, life sciences, information technology, aerospace, maritime and clean energy. Bonlender brings nearly 20 years of public and private experience to his new post, including as a regulatory compliance consultant for industries across the state and as an advisor to a clean tech startup. Most recently, Bonlender served as director of Inslee's transition team.
"Having worked with Brian over the years, we know him to be a strong advocate for Washington State industries and a good partner for the business community," said Steve Mullen, president of the Washington Roundtable. "We are pleased to see Governor Inslee appoint a close and capable aide to direct the Department of Commerce. It sends a clear signal that job creation and economic growth will be the administration's top priority."
Dorothy Frost Teeter was named director of the Health Care Authority which oversees health care services for state employees and low-income residents. She will take over the office in March and will oversee the state's implementation of the Affordable Care Act, including creation of our new health care exchanges.
"One of our biggest opportunities in the coming years is to not only improve our state's bottom line, but to improve the health of our employees and all Washingtonians," said Inslee. "Dorothy brings an outstanding record of innovation and quality improvement that is exactly what we need. I'm looking forward to working with her to reform our system so success is measured by quality instead of quantity."
Frost Teeter is a senior advisor at the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation in Maryland, which works to test innovative models of payments and service. Prior to working as CMMI's Senior Advisor for Policy and Programs, she served as Chief of Health Operations and Interim Director of Seattle & King County Public Health. She also served as Vice President of Quality and Systems Resources at Group Health Cooperative.
Major General Bret D. Daugherty is being reappointed to his position as Adjutant General of the Washington Military Department. He serves as commander of Washington's Army and National Guard forces and oversees the state's Emergency Management and Enhanced 911 programs.
"Major General Daugherty has done an outstanding job since taking on this role last year," said Inslee. "I am honored that he has agreed to continue his service in my administration. He'll be helping oversee some exciting new changes in replacing the department's armories with more cost-effective readiness centers and will continue his leadership on important efforts such as the National Guard's Counterdrug Task Force."

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news/20130129.aspx
