Public Statements
Governor-Elect Jay Inslee Announces New Slate of Appointments
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 10, 2013
Location: Olympia, WA

At today's Legislative Preview hosted by the Associated Press, Governor-Elect Jay Inslee introduced the newest five members of his Administration, including the new heads of the Department of Social and Health Services and the Department of Labor & Industries.
"I'm very pleased by the caliber of talent and expertise these men and women will be bringing to my team," said Inslee. "They understand my vision of bringing change to Olympia and bring an exciting blend of public and private sector experience that will serve the people of Washington State well."
Joel Sacks - Department of Labor & Industries
Joel Sacks is the current deputy commissioner of the state Employment Security Department where he was appointed by Commissioner Paul Trause in October 2010. Previously, Sacks served for five years at Employment Security as assistant commissioner for the Budget, Policy and Communications Division. Prior to joining Employment Security, he was deputy director of field services at the state Department of Labor and Industries. He also served four years at the Occupational Safety and Health Administration in the U.S. Department of Labor. Sacks holds degrees in political science and public administration.
Kevin Quigley - Department of Social and Health Services
Kevin Quigley, former State Senator from Snohomish County, is formerly the president of the U.S. Fab division for Vigor Industrial, a major shipbuilding company. Before that, he was president of Vigor's Everett shipyard and helped turn it into one of the largest dockside repair centers in the Pacific Northwest. Quigley has previously served as head of global business development for Teledesic. He holds degrees in political science from George Washington University and law degrees from New York School of Law and Harvard University.
Dale Peinecke - Employment Security Department
Dale Peinecke is the President and CEO of Giddens Industries, an aerospace manufacturing company, and is the past chair of the Snohomish County Workforce Development. Peinecke has worked for more than a decade leading aerospace companies, and is a former Operations Manager for Alcoa, Inc. He holds degrees in engineering and business administration from Carnegie Mellon University and Oregon State University.
Marcie Frost - Department of Retirement Systems
Marcie Frost is the current Deputy Director at DRS. Frost's career has spanned three primary professions: public pension administration, human resources and information technology. In all three areas, she has held executive-level roles where she brought a high degree of results-orientation through effective teaming and collaboration.
Alfie Alvarado-Ramos - Department of Veterans Affairs
Alfie Alvarado-Ramos currently serves as the Deputy Director of the Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs. Born in Puerto Rico, Alvarado served 22 years on active duty retiring in August 1993 as the Command Sergeant Major of Madigan Army Medical Center in Fort Lewis, Washington. During her military career, she was the recipient of numerous awards and decorations to include the Legion of Merit, Order of Military Medical Merit, Expert Field Medical Badge, and Meritorious Service Medals. She is a graduate of the Harvard University John F. Kennedy School of Government Executive Program, the University of Washington Executive Management Program, and holds a Nursing Home Administrator's license, having previously managed two state veterans' homes in Washington State.

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news/20130110.aspx
