Public Statements
Biotech Business Leaders Endorse Jay Inslee and His Jobs Plan
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 6, 2012
Location: Unknown

Following on yesterday's endorsements from clean tech business leaders from around the state, a group of biotech leaders met today to announce their endorsement for Jay Inslee and his jobs plan.
Clay Siegall, President and CEO of Seattle Genetics, introduced Inslee and called his vision for job creation the right approach for growing innovation in Washington State.
"The biotech industry in Washington has enormous potential," said Siegall. "Jay was a recognized leader on this issue in Congress because he understands this industry. With the right kind of leadership and the right kind of policies, Washington can become an important international hub for research and development, manufacturing and sales of these innovative new medicines and products. Jay will provide that leadership as governor."
Jim Katzaroff from Advanced Medical Isotopes, Dave Marver from Cardiac Science and Tom Clement from Pathway Medical also voiced their support for Inslee and his biotech jobs plan.
The group gathered at the University of Washington's Center for Commercialization, where Inslee emphasized one of the key aspects of his jobs plan -- making it easier for research institutions to commercialize their research and development.
"Right here at this Center there is incredible research taking place with the potential to transform how we work, how we fuel our planet, how we take care of the sick and the vulnerable," said Inslee. "While the Center has made great strides to improve our commercialization capabilities, current laws hamstring their efforts to make the most of this research, leaving money and jobs on the table that other states are taking advantage of. My jobs plan corrects those problems. If, for example, we do commercialization at half the rate of Utah, we would generate $3 billion in economy activity over the next several years."

Source:
