Public Statements
Issue Position: Building a New Economy for Washington
Issue Position
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 1, 2012
Location: Unknown

I'm working to build an economy where good-paying jobs are created and provide hope to the middle class that their hard work once again really matters; an economy that rewards innovative, creative thinking; an economy that puts Washington State at the forefront of a clean energy revolution in job creation.
These days, there's not a region or corner of our state that isn't struggling through tough economic times.
Too many jobs have been lost, too many homes have been foreclosed upon, and too many families are one lost paycheck away from financial ruin. But if there's one state I believe can turn its economy around, that can harness an innovative and creative vision for the future, it's our state.
That's why I'm running for governor -- to create jobs and restore security for the middle class, to level the playing field, and bring fairness to the working families of Washington.
To do that, I am unveiling ideas for the first steps in building this new economy -- an economy where good-paying jobs are created and provide hope to the middle class that their hard work once again actually matters; an economy that rewards innovative, creative thinking; an economy that puts Washington State at the forefront of a clean energy revolution in job creation.
Changing the Culture of Olympia
We're going to change the culture of Olympia. My administration will be a jobs-and-economy focused administration. We'll help our businesses thrive and remain competitive through a series of initiatives including tackling rising health care costs and increasing education in STEM fields.
Industry Clusters
In addition to changing the culture in Olympia, my administration will focus its attention on key industries and sectors in which our state is uniquely poised to lead.
Clean Energy
We need visionary leadership to spark a new revolution. We led the first technological revolution in aerospace, a second technological revolution in computers and software, and we will lead yet another technological revolution when I'm governor, in clean energy technology.
Aerospace
Aerospace has been one of the bedrocks of our state's economy for the last half century. As governor, I'll make sure it's the bedrock of our economy for the next 100 years.
Life Sciences
From biotech to genetics to immunology, the life sciences field accounts for more than 22,000 direct jobs in our state and I'll make sure we support the growth of thousands more.
Military
Our military spends $12.2 billion in Washington state and is a significant driver of the economy. Despite having the 9th largest military population, our state ranks 23rd in landing military procurement projects. We can do better, and we will.
Agriculture
Our agriculture industry is Washington's biggest employer. Nearly $13 billion of agricultural products were exported through Washington ports in 2010. Despite the industry's success, we must help our farmers and growers face difficult challenges ranging from water to workforce issues, and from pests to ports.
Information and Communication Technology
Washington State is home to an active and broad information and communication technology sector. We will invest in meeting the workforce needs of the IT industry and work to protect the intellectual property on which tens of thousands of jobs depend.
Small Business
Our small businesses employ more than 40 percent of our workforce. They sit at the forefront of economic cycles and are the hardest hit during economic downturns. State government should be a partner in their success, not a hindrance.
Maritime
Washington State has a long and proud tradition as a global leader in maritime trade, manufacturing, and related industries. We need a vision that will ensure that we utilize one of our state's best assets: our maritime industry.

Source: http://www.jayinslee.com/priorities/jobs-plan
