Public Statements
Issue Position: Health Care
Issue Position
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 1, 2012
Location: Unknown

Building a Working Washington Health Care System:
Bending the Cost Curve, Improving Quality and Increasing Access Health care system improvement in Washington State is a critical element that will drive economic recovery and job creation. Jay Inslee and his administration will bring together stakeholders to implement best practices and adopt innovations that promote efficiencies and quality. Jay's policies will help to bend the cost curve of health care in Washington downward and improve patient outcomes, while helping small businesses better afford coverage for their employees. Specifically, Jay's vision for a Working Washington Health Care System includes:
Fully implementing the benefits of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which are estimated to accrue savings to state government of between $667 and $988 million from 2014-2019.
The expansion of Medicaid under the ACA that will help eliminate the cost-shift from the uninsured to those with insurance, which on its own increases premiums $1100 per family per year.
Using Medicaid to create new payment models to support innovations in care delivery, like Accountable Care Organizations and Patient Centered Medical Homes, which put the health care patient-provider relationship at the center of care.
Development of a vibrant Health Benefit Exchange that puts more of your premium dollars toward care instead of insurance companies' overhead.
Improving Washington's health care system must build on the support provided by the Affordable Care Act. Hundreds of thousands of Washingtonians have already benefited from the increased coverage of preventive care, the ability to keep their children covered up to age 26 and the elimination of limits on insurance coverage. Millions more will benefit when insurance can no longer be denied or limited because of pre-existing health conditions. It will bring relief to small businesses struggling to find coverage for their employees. In large part due to Jay's efforts, physicians and hospitals have finally seen an increase in our state's Medicare reimbursement rates, which have been underfunded for years.






Source:
