Public Statements
Letter to Secretary Duncan and Secretary Sebelius
Letter
By: Jay Inslee Patty Murray Norm Dicks Rick Larsen Maria Cantwell Adam Smith Jim McDermott
Date: Dec. 16, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded a major Race to the Top Early Learning Challenge grant to the Washington State Department of Early Learning. This award will allow Washington state to continue investing in high-quality early learning to make sure more children across the state enter school ready and able to learn. The state applied for $60 million, and while award amounts from the $500 million pool have not yet been released, it is expected that the state's award will be in that range. Washington state was among fewer than ten award winners from the 37 applications.
"This is a major victory for children and families across Washington state," said Senator Patty Murray. "This award will help make sure that our state's children get the support they need to enter kindergarten ready to learn and ready to succeed.
"As a former preschool teacher, I've seen first-hand how investments in early learning programs pay off for our children. And I know that students who have access to high-quality early childhood education are more prepared for elementary school and have a better shot at getting their educational career started on the right track.
"I was proud to fight hard to make sure that early learning was eligible for Race to the Top funding. And I want to congratulate the state of Washington and the Department of Early Learning for their successful application and continued commitment to comprehensive early childhood education."
As a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee overseeing education funding, Senator Murray worked to include language in a federal funding bill that gave the Department of Education the authority to use Race to the Top funding for early learning. Murray spoke to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan in early May to push him to exercise that authority and use a significant amount of the RTTT total for early learning. Duncan announced the $500 million Early Learning Challenge later that month.







Source:
