Public Statements
Letter to Co-Chairmen Murray and Hensarling of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction
Letter
By: Tom Latham Bob Filner Lois Capps Jim McDermott Nan Hayworth Barbara Lee Stephen Lynch Charlie Gonzalez Gregory Meeks Mike Rogers Lou Barletta David McKinley Howard Coble Barney Frank Leonard Lance Doris Matsui Emanuel Cleaver II Bruce Braley Ted Poe Bill Flores Joe Courtney Danny Davis Jay Inslee Elton Gallegly John Barrow Rich Nugent Dennis Ross Loretta Sanchez John Tierney Bill Pascrell, Jr. Larry Kissell Hank Johnson, Jr. Reid Ribble Richard Neal Tim Ryan Brian Bilbray Jackie Speier Pat Meehan Jim McGovern Mike Honda André Carson Terri Sewell Kathy Castor Madeleine Bordallo Tim Bishop Niki Tsongas Ed Towns Rush Holt, Jr. John Yarmuth John Carney, Jr. Kay Granger Judy Chu John Olver Joe Crowley Brian Higgins Bill Keating Diana DeGette Ed Markey Gene Green
Date: Oct. 14, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

In a bipartisan effort to maintain the high quality of cancer care in the United States, U.S. Reps. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ-8) and Leonard Lance (R-NJ-7) today rallied nearly 60 Congress members to urge the Joint Committee on Deficit Reduction to not cut $3 billion from Medicare Part B reimbursements for medications that fight cancer and other serious diseases.
Today, the two lawmakers submitted a letter, signed by 61 members of Congress, to U.S. Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and U.S. Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA), co-chairs of the Joint Committee on Deficit Reduction.
"We thank the outstanding leadership of Congressmen Pascrell and Lance in rallying their bipartisan colleagues to support cancer care," said Ted Okon, Executive Director of the Community Oncology Alliance. "Cancer care is in crisis as evidenced by clinic closings and drug shortages and simply cannot absorb any additional payment cuts."
A copy of the letter is attached and the text of the letter follows:
October 14, 2011
Dear Senator Murray and Congressman Hensarling:

We appreciate the hard work you are doing as a member of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction and applaud your willingness to tackle the difficult fiscal issues facing our Nation.
However we are very concerned about any discussion to include $3 billion in cuts to Medicare Part B reimbursement for drugs and biologics medicines that fight cancer and other serious diseases. We believe these potential cuts, if enacted, would adversely affect cancer care in the U.S.

As you know Congress reformed Medicare Part B reimbursement as part of the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act, and payment amounts for drugs and biologicals were then dramatically reduced. Payments are now set using the Medicare Average Sales Price (ASP) system, which includes the actual prices paid by physicians and other drug purchasers.

The Medicare ASP is a market-driven reimbursement mechanism that has driven down Medicare costs. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that Medicare would save almost $16 billion over 10 years by reducing payments for Part B drugs using the current ASP system compared to the old reimbursement system. The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) that advises Congress on Medicare matters said that ASP has resulted in, "substantial price savings for Medicare on nearly all drugs and those payment rate changes drove decreased spending."

Enacting cuts to ASP could also worsen an already troubling access problem, as community oncology practices are already struggling even as demand for cancer care is now starting to exceed the supply of oncologists. According to one report, in the last 3 1/2 years alone, 199 cancer clinics have closed and 369 practices, with multiple clinic locations, are struggling financially. And it is predicted that over the next ten years there will be an oncologist shortage for one in four cancer patients, and enacting $3 billion in cancer cuts will only exacerbate this problem.
The U.S. has the best cancer care delivery system in the world. Eighty-four percent of Americans receive quality, compassionate care in the community cancer setting. It is imperative that Congress continues to ensure that cancer patients across the nation can continue to have access to lifesaving medical treatments.

It is for this reason that we urge you not to sacrifice cancer care while seeking deficit reduction solutions.
Sincerely,
Leonard Lance (R-NJ) Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ)
Patrick Meehan (R-PA) Mike Honda (D-CA)
Dennis A. Ross (R-FL) John Barrow (D-GA)
Brian Bilbray (R-CA) Mike Rogers (R-MI)
David B. McKinley (R-WV) Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU)
Tom Latham (R-IA) Jay Inslee (D-WA)
Richard Neal (D-MA) Ted Poe (R-TX)
Ed Pastor (D-AZ) Charles A. Gonzalez (D-TX)
Terri A. Sewell (D-AL) Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY)
Jim McGovern (D-MA) Howard Coble (R-NC)
Lou Barletta (R-PA) Tim Ryan (D-OH)
Ed Markey (D-MA) Niki Tsongas (D-MA)
Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) Hank Johnson (D-GA)
Judy Chu (D-CA) John W. Olver (D-MA)
Bruce Braley (D-IA) Elton Gallegly (R-CA)
Jackie Speier (D-CA) Barney Frank (D-MA)
Joseph Crowley (D-NY) Andre Carson (D-IN)
Edolphus "Ed" Towns (D-NY) Bob Filner (D-CA)
Susan A. Davis (D-CA) Joe Courtney (D-CT)
Rush Holt (D-NJ) Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA)
Gene Green (D-TX) John Carney (D-DE)
John Tierney (D-MA) Larry Kissell (D-NC)
Doris O. Matsui (D-CA) Lois Capps (D-CA)
William Keating (D-MA) Kay Granger (R-TX)
Linda Sanchez (D-CA) Reid Ribble (R-WI)
Paul Tonko (D-NY) Jim McDermott (D-WA)
Bill Flores (R-TX) Kathy Castor (D-FL)
Diana DeGette (D-CO) Brian Higgins (D-NY)
Barbara Lee (D-CA) John Yarmuth (D-KY)
Tim Bishop (D-NY) Richard B. Nugent (R-FL)
Nan Hayworth, MD (R-NY)

Source: http://pascrell.house.gov/list/press/nj08_pascrell/pr10142011.shtml
