Public Statements
Letter to Speaker Boehner - Emergency Funds
Letter
By: Rosa DeLauro Henry Waxman Mike Honda Linda Sánchez Bob Filner George Miller Brad Sherman Jerry McNerney Sam Farr Steve Cohen Keith Ellison Jerry Costello Betty Sutton John Larson Pete Visclosky Brian Higgins Daniel Lipinski Maxine Waters Gary Ackerman Earl Blumenauer André Carson Pete Stark Bobby Rush Anna Eshoo Betty McCollum Barney Frank Jesse Jackson, Jr. Kathy Hochul Sandy Levin Joe Crowley Ben Chandler III Chris Van Hollen, Jr. Bill Keating Jim Himes Debbie Wasserman Schultz Bruce Braley Loretta Sanchez Louise Slaughter Rick Larsen Mark Critz John Yarmuth Marcy Kaptur Frank Pallone, Jr. Lucille Roybal-Allard Joe Courtney John Garamendi Adrian Smith Judy Chu Jay Inslee Adam Schiff Raul Grijalva Dennis Cardoza Grace Napolitano Chris Murphy Tim Bishop Bennie Thompson Russ Carnahan Jackie Speier Jerry Nadler Carolyn Maloney Gregory Meeks John Conyers, Jr. Maurice Hinchey Bob Brady Howard Berman Jim Moran, Jr. Hansen Clarke John Carney, Jr. Steve Rothman Mike Doyle Lois Capps Joe Donnelly, Sr. Jim McDermott Elijah Cummings Luis Gutiérrez Gerry Connolly Dennis Kucinich John Dingell Tim Ryan Doris Matsui Emanuel Cleaver II John Sarbanes Donna Edwards Eliot Engel Diana DeGette Rush Holt, Jr. Carolyn McCarthy Jim McGovern John Tierney Gary Peters Dutch Ruppersberger Ron Kind Rubén Hinojosa, Sr. Ed Towns Yvette Clarke Ed Markey Dale Kildee Martin Heinrich
Date: Sept. 21, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

This morning, Congressman Gary Peters and Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo announced that 108 Democrats have now signed onto the Peters-Eshoo letter demanding that Speaker John Boehner not slash $1.5 billion in proven job creating loans to the auto industry. On Tuesday, Peters and Eshoo released the letter with 77 signatures and today 31 new members have joined the Peters-Eshoo effort. Momentum is building as the House races toward an expected vote on this issue today. Additionally, this effort has garnered the support of the Auto Alliance comprised of GM, Ford and Chrysler, labor unions like the United Auto Workers and the United Steelworkers and environmental groups like the Sierra Club and the League of Conservation Voters.
"Hardworking families can see the difference - Democrats are fighting to protect a program that has literally brought jobs from Mexico to Detroit while the Republicans are trying to kill auto jobs," said Rep. Gary Peters. "We have a growing coalition of industry, labor and environmental groups supporting these loans because we need to improve our economy, but the Tea Party Republicans that we're up against can't even say yes to jobs."































































Source:
