Public Statements
White House, Washington State and Federal Leaders Announce Major New Initiatives for Puget Sound Recovery
Statement
By: Jay Inslee Maria Cantwell Derek Kilmer Patty Murray Rick Larsen Denny Heck
Date: Oct. 18, 2016
Location: Seattle, WA

Today officials from the Obama administration and Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, U.S. Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell and U.S. Reps. Denny Heck, Derek Kilmer and Rick Larsen announced new federal actions to help protect and recover the health of Puget Sound, one of the nation's largest estuaries. These actions demonstrate a firm commitment from the federal government to help restore Puget Sound, and are similar to federal actions taken in recent years to protect other large aquatic ecosystems, such as the Chesapeake Bay and the Great Lakes.
Christy Goldfuss, managing director of President Obama's White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), joined federal, state and tribal officials in Seattle to announce a new memorandum of understanding that directs federal Puget Sound restoration activities and that recognizes the pressing need to address salmon recovery and protect tribal treaty rights. This MOU creates a Puget Sound Federal Task Force that includes several members of Obama's cabinet and will enhance coordination among federal and state agencies, tribes and local restoration efforts.
In addition to this landmark task force and MOU, today the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Environmental Protection Agency announced more than $600 million in new federal funding commitments for habitat restoration, stormwater runoff, shellfish sustainability and other key strategies to improve the health of Puget Sound.
"A healthy Puget Sound provides key economic, cultural and ecological benefits, and serves as the cornerstone of the region's high quality of life. Building on decades of conservation efforts from federal, state, local and tribal agencies, today's actions will strengthen federal efforts to bolster conservation, restoration, and enhance tribal treaty rights within the Puget Sound at a critical juncture in the ecosystem's recovery," Goldfuss said.

Source:
