Public Statements
Letter to Hon. Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General of the United States U.S. Department of Justice
Letter
By: Keith Ellison Elijah Cummings Mike Thompson John Sarbanes Henry Waxman Ted Deutch Jan Schakowsky Jay Inslee Rosa DeLauro Laura Richardson John Lewis Earl Blumenauer Hansen Clarke John Conyers, Jr. Jackie Speier Mike Honda Jerry Nadler Barbara Lee Sam Farr Brad Miller George Miller Al Green Anna Eshoo Zoe Lofgren Jim McDermott Dennis Kucinich Steve Cohen Luis Gutiérrez Lynn Woolsey Bobby Rush Pete Stark Alcee Hastings, Sr.
Date: May 3, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

Today, Congressmen Jerrold Nadler, George Miller, Elijah Cummings, and Brad Miller, along with 29 other House colleagues, urged Attorney General Eric Holder and Iowa State Attorney General Tom Miller to do more to protect victims of improper foreclosures. The Members urged the attorneys general to consider concerns raised by a broad coalition of consumer, labor, civil rights, and other organizations about the ongoing settlement talks between state attorneys general and mortgage servicers involved in improper and unlawful activities connected to the foreclosure crisis.
"In the communities we represent, and in others across the country, the flagrant disregard for the law and predatory practices by lenders and servicers, have imposed substantial hardships on both homeowners and their neighbors," wrote the Members of Congress. "We hope that, as these talks proceed, you will work to protect the rights of those harmed by these practices, provide meaningful immediate relief to homeowners, hold lenders and servicers accountable for any unlawful practices that they engaged in, and ensure that, in the future, the practices that brought about this crisis will not reoccur."
Hon. Eric H. Holder, Jr.
Attorney General of the United States
U.S. Department of Justice
950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20530-0001
Dear Mr. Attorney General:
We are writing to you concerning the ongoing settlement talks between state Attorneys General and mortgage servicers in cases involving improper and unlawful activities by those servicers.
In the communities we represent, and in others across the country, the flagrant disregard for the law and predatory practices by lenders and servicers, have imposed substantial hardships on both homeowners and their neighbors. We hope that, as these talks proceed, you will work to protect the rights of those harmed by these practices, provide meaningful immediate relief to homeowners, hold lenders and servicers accountable for any unlawful practices that they engaged in, and ensure that, in the future, the practices that brought about this crisis will not reoccur.
We have received the enclosed letter from a broad coalition of consumer, civil rights, and labor organizations setting out a series of concerns about a possible settlement.
We ask that you review this letter and let us know what you are doing to address the concerns raised in the letter.
Sincerely,
Congressman Jerrold Nadler
Congressman George Miller
Congressman Elijah Cummings
Congressman Brad Miller
Congressman Earl Blumenauer
Congressman Hansen Clarke
Congressman Steve Cohen
Congressman John Conyers
Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro
Congressman Ted Deutsch
Congressman Keith Ellison
Congresswoman Anna Eshoo
Congressman Sam Farr
Congressman Al Green
Congressman Luis Gutierrez
Congressman Alcee Hastings
Congressman Mike Honda
Congressman Jay Inslee
Congressman Dennis Kucinich
Congresswoman Barbara Lee
Congressman John Lewis
Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren
Congressman Jim McDermott
Congresswoman Laura Richardson
Congressman Bobby Rush
Congressman John Sarbanes
Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky
Congresswoman Jackie Speier
Congressman Pete Stark
Congressman Mike Thompson
Congressman Ed Towns
Congressman Henry Waxman
Congresswoman Lynn Woolsey

Source: http://georgemiller.house.gov/2011/05/members-of-congress-urge-justice-department-and-state-attorneys-general-to-protect-victims-of-improp.shtml
