Public Statements
Basically, What You Have Done on the Bill is It Says: Effective on the Date of the Act There Are Rescinded
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 10, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Madam Chair, we know how dire the situation is for tens of thousands of Americans with underwater mortgages who are making good faith efforts to make the right decisions both for themselves and for the lender. And we are very concerned that if this program prematurely is destroyed, we will be yanking back a lifeline that Congress has sent to these folks. And, of course, this is important because it's not just the people who own these homes that are underwater right now that are affected by the collapse in housing values, but all of us are because that housing debacle has affected employment in the construction trades and in the real estate industry broadly. We all have a stake in this issue.
So what my amendment would do is to basically say that we want the FHA, if, in fact, this situation moves forward like this bill is, that they will conduct a study and essentially implement a substitute program that will fix anything that needs fixing in this program to achieve the ends that we ought to be able to have as our goal.
Now, the basic underlying theory of our amendment is simple. Before you take away a lifeline from some American to solve a problem that thousands are experiencing, come up with a substitute, come up with an improvement, come up with an alternative. And that's what our amendment simply says. If we're going to eliminate this program in its current embodiment, let's come up with an alternative and have it implemented in a way that we keep this lifeline out there.
Now, the reason we feel that this is important is that all too frequently in this Congress we have seen the majority party remove these solutions to programs and not replace it with an alternative. We've seen this in health care, where they have wanted to remove a health care program arguing it's ineffective or they think they have a better program but not come up with a substitute to replace it. That's not good enough. Americans deserve better.
The same thing with the Environmental Protection Agency. Today, my friends in the majority party sought in the Energy and Commerce Committee to eliminate protection against airborne pollutants that are hurting human health, but they did not come up with any alternative to solve that problem.
Now, we want to join in a bipartisan fashion, if there are impediments or imperfections in this bill, to come up with a solution. Let's not allow those Americans to be hanging out there without a lifeline. My amendment would do that. And I would commend it to my fellows.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Briefly, I would hope that the Chair would consider a couple of salient points. Number one, it is our intent, and I believe universal intent, that by this amendment we don't intend to change the basic nature of this program. It does apply this benefit to those homeowners who are current on their mortgage obligations. We would intend that that standard and condition would continue.
And I would point out to the Chair the language of our amendment specifically says that this program would only be carried out under ``appropriate guidelines and standards.'' We think this solves that problem. We seek our congressional intent to continue. We hope that the Members will be able to be heard on this.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
