Public Statements
Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 15, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Page 213, line 19, after the dollar amount insert ``(increased by $20,000,000)''.
Page 217, line 13, after the dollar amount insert ``(reduced by $20,000,000)''.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Washington is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, we have a simple amendment that will help restore two principles to our budget: one is innovation, and two is balance. What our amendment would do would be add $20 million to the ARPA-E account. It would be fully paid for with a balance taken out of the fossil fuel research account, and this is important for two fundamental reasons.
Our Nation's economic performance will live or it will die on the ability to innovate a new clean energy technology; and today, tonight, when we're speaking, the Chinese are investing $786 billion in the development of new clean energy technologies. Yet, what does this CR do to our advanced clean energy research budget? It cuts it by 85 percent. While the Chinese are racing ahead on clean energy, we're running backwards 85 percent in ARPA-E, which has tremendous potential in solar energy, in efficient, enhanced geothermal and new efficiencies in electric storage, in high-capacity grid systems. This is our seed corn of innovation, and yet we have slashed it 85 percent in this CR. We are simply asking to reduce that cut to about 65 percent and add $20 million.
Now, let me put this in context. That is the innovation part of this agenda; and for those who are critical of ARPA-E, let me suggest, in the first year of this operation, in the first year, it has attracted six private equity investments for $23 million of Uncle Sam's investment of $100 million that has been leveraged for private equity investment. This program has some promise, and we are cutting off tiny little crumbs to cut off the innovation budget for clean energy. It's a huge mistake.
Now, balance, here's where the balance part comes in. We want to pay for this, obviously. We don't want to create further deficit spending on this program. In the fossil fuel research budget, we've cut that 17 percent, and it's 10 times larger than the ARPA-E budget. That is wildly out of balance where we cut ARPA-E. Instead of 17 percent, we cut it 85 percent. Fossil fuels, we've got $556 million in research. For ARPA-E, we've got 50 million unless we adopt the Inslee amendment. So I would encourage us to get in the game of competing with China.
Now, I was talking to former Governor Ted Strickland tonight about a company called Willard & Kelsey, WK Solar Group, a company that's developed a new way of manufacturing solar cells using a horizontal manufacturing project, much more efficient, quicker manufacturing. If we don't start developing these technologies, the Chinese are going to have us for lunch, and this is a small thing that the payoffs could be dramatic. We'd encourage more innovation, and we'd encourage more balance for the future.
We recommend this amendment.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
