Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of House Resolution 72, Directing Committees to Review Regulations From Federal Agencies
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 10, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Speaker, I would suggest that we need more jobs and less speeches. And what we will get from this bill on the floor is more speeches and no jobs.
It is very disappointing in the current economic context that what we bring to the floor for 9 1/2 hours is a bill that simply instructs the committees to do what we've already instructed them to do. This is already in the rules, it's already required, we all agree on it. What are we doing here wasting 9 1/2 hours? If we just produced a thousand jobs an hour, we could have produced 9,500 jobs. Instead, we're going to produce 95 speeches. That's not what we need.
If you want to look for waste in government, take a look at this bill: 9 1/2 hours down the tube doing something we're already doing. We had a hearing yesterday in the Commerce Committee. We're already talking about these regulations.
But let me give a warning to people about what happens when the Republican Party wants to look at regulations. You know the first thing they did, they're trying to repeal the Clean Air Act. They're trying to gut the Clean Air Act which is the guardian angel for the air that our kids breathe.
You know, they have introduced a bill, and we had a hearing yesterday. The first hearing we had was to pass their dirty air act. They have a dirty air act that would gut the ability--that would eliminate in total the ability of the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate harmful gases, carbon dioxide, ozone, and a host of other dangerous chemicals.
Now, can you believe that? Their dirty air act will eliminate the ability of the EPA to do things to try to prevent our kids from having aggravated asthma attacks. Their dirty air act would eliminate the ability of the EPA to deal with dangerous gases that exacerbate the respiratory problems of our senior citizens.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
f you think I'm just blowing smoke here, go take a look at their bill. Their bill doesn't try to fix the regulation. It absolutely eliminates in total the ability of the EPA. The EPA was started under a good Republican, Richard Nixon, and it is a sad story that the first bill out of the box they want to go backwards on clean air.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
