Public Statements
Directing Committees To Review Reguiations From Federal Agencies
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 10, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Speaker, there is nothing wrong with having our committees review regulations. But the problem is we are wasting 9 1/2 hours when we are involved in a great race, a great competition.
We are in a race with China and other places in the world to build a clean energy economy that can create millions of new jobs in solar and wind and electric cars and lithium ion batteries.
And you can be assured that the Chinese are not wasting 9 1/2 hours when it comes to figuring out how to form capital formation for solar power companies. That's what we should be doing.
You can be assured the Chinese aren't wasting 9 1/2 hours trying to figure out how to site high-density transmission lines so we can have clean energy plants and move that electricity across their country. That's what we should be doing on a bipartisan basis.
You can be assured that the Chinese aren't wasting 9 1/2 hours figuring out how to create a demand for new wind energy so we can put people to work building wind farms. That's what we should be doing.
And you know what, last year the Republicans passed a clean energy standard which we could be talking about this year on a bipartisan basis. Instead, we're wasting 9 1/2 hours talking about something all of us agree to do.
Now, how do the Republicans intend to do this going out of the gate next week? We're told that their first act is to remove from our Federal law the ability to create jobs in the green, clean energy sector because they want to pass their dirty air bill. Their dirty air bill will strip the Environmental Protection Agency of the ability to create an incentive for 1.5 million jobs: jobs in the solar sector industry, jobs in the wind industry, jobs in the enhanced geothermal industry. These are jobs.
Don't let them pass the dirty air bill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
