Public Statements
SEEC blasts Republicans' Dirty Air Act
Press Release
By: Chellie Pingree Earl Blumenauer Jay Inslee Jared Polis Rush Holt, Jr. Gerry Connolly
Date: Feb. 3, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

Today members of the House of Representatives Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition (SEEC) blasted Republican draft legislation to repeal Clean Air Act standards for carbon, methane, and other pollution. SEEC leaders said that this "Dirty Air Act" would gut important pollution controls and roll back American clean energy progress in favor of bigger profits for Big Polluters.
"All this bill would do is give dirty air to America and clean energy jobs to China," said SEEC Co-Chair Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA). "The dirty air is obvious and unacceptable. But the hidden problem is that by removing incentives for clean energy we could fall further behind China in the clean energy jobs race." Inslee added that "The United States needs a new Apollo energy plan that will send the signal that clean energy will be valued and supported, that subsidies and protections for dirty, antiquated energy sources are over. But this plan to repeal public health standards in the name of dirty energy would roll back our progress on clean energy, and lock us out of the race in clean energy with China. The American people will reject it."
"This proposal puts the interests of Big Polluters ahead of the health of Americans," said SEEC Vice Chair Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME). "Trying to ignore the science behind carbon pollution won't make the health threat go away. We need a strong, scientifically based Clean Air Act to protect the health of our families and encourage innovation."
"This draft shows exactly what happens when special interests and industry lobbyists are given special access. We now know exactly what the recently publicized closed-door meeting between Republicans and the dirty energy lobby was all about," said SEEC Vice Chair Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO). "We need a policy that protects our public health and puts scientific and entrepreneurial advancement before politics, not policy aimed solely at lining the already stuffed pockets of Big Oil."
"Repealing the Clean Air Act would make America more dependent on foreign oil, increase health-threatening pollution that causes diseases like asthma, and damage important sectors of our economy like automobile and clean energy manufacturing," said SEEC Vice Chair Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA).

Source:
