Public Statements
Issue Position: Technology and Innovation
Issue Position
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 1, 2011
Location: Unknown

Innovation is a major economic driver in Washington's first district, and is also the cornerstone of the new global economy, from increased computing speed and internet access, smaller digital devices to biologic and medical research. To prepare our nation for future economic success, I've supported improving math, science and engineering education programs, increasing funding for scientific research, and investing in advanced technology development. The innovation agenda will support the next generation of innovators and entrepreneurs, who will develop new industries, create new jobs, and fuel economic growth.
Breakthrough on Use of "White Spaces":
In Congress and through my work as a member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee, I have advocated for policies to spur American innovation including the use of unused television spectrum referred to as "white spaces". Often referred to as "Super W-Fi," white spaces have the power to deliver the next wave of wireless broadband innovation and access to consumers from Bothell, WA to Washington, DC.
In 2007, I sponsored the Wireless Innovation Act, which pushed the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to resolve the issues surrounding the white spaces and will help to expand Americans' access to wireless technologies. On September 23, 2010, the FCC unanimously approved new rules for the unlicensed use of white spaces that will expand high-speed wireless broadband service, without interfering with television programming. These rules will expand applications for innovative technologies developed by companies based in Washington's First Congressional District and improve broadband access for those who use them.
Increasing investment in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM)
Education and Creating 21st Century Jobs:
I supported The America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science (COMPETES) Act, legislation to invest in modernizing manufacturing, spur American innovation through basic Research and Development, high risk and reward clean energy research, and strengthen education programs to best prepare students for the jobs of the 21st Century. Reauthorization of the America COMPETES Act (H.R. 5116) will increase investments in basic scientific research, expand scientific and economic collaboration with small and mid-sized manufacturers to create new jobs, promote research to pioneer cutting edge discoveries, and create the next generation of entrepreneurs by improving science, math, technology, and engineering education at all levels.
Creating a pathway for approval of life-saving biosimiliar biologics:
In my district, the biotech industry works to develop advanced medical treatment products called biologics, which are living organisms, different and more complex than small molecule drugs. It is important that laws protect investments in innovation while allowing for the safe expansion of these life-saving medicines. Therefore, I worked with a bipartisan group in Congress to create a pathway for the approval of generic, or "biosimilar" biologics to provide patients with increased access to lifesaving therapies, in a way that maintains safety and incentives to create breakthrough medicines.
Authored by Reps. Anna Eshoo, Joe Barton and myself, H.R. 1548, the Pathway for Biosimilars Act, was passed into law in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The legislation protects patients by ensuring patient safety, recognizing the scientific differences between small-molecule drugs and biologics, maintaining the physician-patient relationship, and preserving incentives for innovation. The amendment includes twelve years of data exclusivity for innovator biologics, ensuring not only that these life-changing and life-saving biologic treatments are more accessible and affordable, but that we also foster continued research and development investment needed to search for new cures and treatments.
Research and Development and Promoting an Innovation Economy:
I recently took to Forbes.com to discuss how the United States could better empower private companies through an expansion of the Research and Development Tax Credit. In the column, I explained that achieving the right blend between the public sector and private industry is a complicated economic endeavor. But neither the private sector's invisible hand nor governmental heavy-handedness can be the solution. It is true that we cannot spur an innovation agenda without the government, but it is equally true that the government cannot replace private-sector market forces. It is imperative that the public and private sectors start working together.
It's the combination of R&D tax credits, improved education and training, and public-private collaboration--for small companies--that's fast and efficient and will ultimately help keep our great innovations here at home, for the benefit of American workers and families. By planting our seed corn, instead of eating it, we will reap the economic benefits.

Source: http://inslee.house.gov/issue/tech
