Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 1, 2011
Location: Unknown

Education is a key element for our nation to continue being competitive in the global economy and stay on the cutting edge of innovation. Every American student deserves access to a quality education, and the opportunities that come with it.
I believe that national education policies and federal funding priorities should help improve learning environments for students, teachers and administrators in our schools and universities. The federal government is an important partner to the states and local school districts in meeting our children's educational needs.
American Innovation and Competitiveness through Science, Math, Engineering and Technology Education
In 2010, the House passed the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act . This bill, among other research and development provisions, would strengthen math and science education to prepare students for the jobs of the 21st Century. As our economy recovers from the worst recession since the Great Depression, we need to look in every classroom for new game-changing opportunities. At this critical juncture for the economic future of our nation, it is imperative that we invest in education
Fighting Childhood Obesity:
The growing rate of childhood obesity and diabetes is very troubling to me. A University of Washington study showed that nearly a quarter of WA state's eighth, tenth and twelfth-graders are overweight or obese. I worked with a bipartisan group of colleagues, Reps. Kind and Wamp, to author and pass the FIT Kids Act in the House. This legislation enables schools, districts and states to get credit under the No Child Left Behind law for improvements that they make the quantity and quality of physical education taught in schools. Daily physical education at school is proven to help kids do better and school as well as develop the skills, behaviors, attitudes, and confidence they need to lead healthy, active lives and become healthy, active adults. However, due to tight budgets, and requirements under federal policies, many school districts are dramatically cutting physical education programs.
Investing in Higher Education:
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act passed into law, making historic investments in higher education. This bill increased the higher education tax credit to a maximum of $2,500 and makes this program available to nearly 4 million low-income students who were not previously eligible by making credit partially refundable. In addition, this bill increased the maximum Pell Grant by $500, for a maximum of $5,350 in 2009 and $5,550 in 2010. Finally, $200 million is provided for the College Work-Study program.
In 2010, I supported, and President Obama signed into law, a historic higher education bill that will expand educational opportunities for America's students and families nationwide. The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act strengthened the Pell Grant program, invested in community colleges, extended support for historically black colleges and other minority serving institutions, and helped student borrowers manage their student loan debt. In the 111th Congress, I sponsored bipartisan legislation to increase high school and college graduation rates for low-income students by authorizing a Grants for College Access and Completion program to support innovative and effective approaches that are improving college-going and college-graduation rates for low-income students. H.R. 3259 would provide grants to eligible organizations with a proven track record of success in increasing the number of students from low-income and disadvantaged populations who enter and remain in college.
Elementary and Secondary Education Act:
During my time in Congress, I have voted twice to reauthorize the history Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which has aimed to improve public K-12 education, by increasing the accountability of our public school systems and improve student achievement. It remains a top priority in Congress to reauthorize this Act with added flexibility that meet the needs of our nation's students.
Early Childhood Education and Head Start
I am a proud supporter of early childhood education, which is proven to improve school readiness and can even result in long-term benefits like improved test scores and graduation rates. I supported the Improving Head Start for School Readiness Act of 2007, which worked to help more children arrive at kindergarten ready to succeed. Important provisions in this bill increased classroom and quality by improving standards and curriculum.
Education and Military Families:
I voted in support of a historic G.I. Bill for the 21st Century, The Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2010. The bill represents the greatest overhaul of the G.I. Bill in over 20 years, covering the cost of a college education at a public university. Since August 2009, the VA has issued Post-9/11 G.I. Bill benefits to almost 250,000 individuals and $1.2 billion in education benefits have been paid to veteran students.
Kitsap County in my district is home to numerous military institutions and thousands of military families. That's why I serve as a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives Impact Aid Coalition to make sure that school districts like Central Kitsap have the additional resources they need to provide quality education for children in military families and ensure these federally impacted school districts can meet the growing number of children.

Source: http://inslee.house.gov/issue/education
