Public Statements
Issue Position: Energy
Issue Position
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 1, 2011
Location: Unknown

I believe we can build a clean energy economy to create jobs, protect our environment and break our addiction to imported oil, and dirty and dangerous fuels. In fact I co-authored a book on the subject, "Apollo's Fire, Igniting America's Clean Energy Economy."
Many Americans are leading the way to our clean energy future, yet, today the race to truly claim the new clean energy economy is on, and the United States is falling behind. We need to ratchet up our effort and focus our country's ingenuity, determination, and resources on developing new industrial opportunities and training the workforce of the future.
As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I have been a champion of clean energy legislation, including authoring several provisions that passed into law in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which included the first Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standard increase in 30 years; a Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) that calls for 36 billion gallons a year of homegrown biofuels, with a focus on next-generation cellulosic ethanol, at the pump by the year 2022; and, visionary requirements for lighting, heating, cooling and building efficiency. Provisions that I sponsored included program to deploy plug-in electric hybrid vehicles or other emerging electric vehicle technologies, a new research and development program to produce renewable energy from waves, tides and river currents, and language that urges public utilities to separate, or decouple, gas and electricity sales from profits to promote energy conservation.
I am also the founder and co-chair of the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition (SEEC), a caucus of 48 members dedicated to the creation of American jobs, the fight for energy independence, and protection of our environment.
Legislative Update
I helped shape the American Clean Energy and Security (ACES) Act, which would have done more than to create jobs, help end our addiction to dirty and dangerous foreign oil, and combat climate change than any legislation in history. While the bill did not pass the Senate, some of the key provisions that I authored then and continue to pursue include:
Creation of a Clean Energy Bank that will give breakthrough clean energy technologies the financing they need to get to commercial-scale deployment. The bank will create new American innovations and the jobs that will bring consumers new energy options and accelerate the clean energy revolution. This will help Washington's business and technology innovators, including developers exploring promising algae-based biofuels, enhanced geothermal and renewable ocean energy technologies.
"Inslee-Doyle" amendment to protect jobs in Washington state industries, providing rebates to local energy-intensive and trade-intensive industries, such as producers of aluminum, steel, and pulp and paper products. This innovative policy, developed in partnership with Rep. Mike Doyle, of Pittsburg, PA, is critical to effectively preserving industrial competitiveness and protecting the environment under the legislation.
Provisions to speed construction of high-priority, high-voltage transmission power lines by allowing the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to site interstate transmission lines that are needed to access remotely located renewable energy resources in the American West.
$20 million for a national wood stove change-out program to help Washington state families who heat their homes with wood-burning stoves to upgrade to cleaner models. This program will cut emissions, improve public health and save money for families in rural areas.
Direct $1.5 billion per year for clean energy research, development, and deployment to ensure American competitiveness in the production of the energy technologies of the twenty-first century.
Loan and grants for transmission technology, enables Washington state's superconductor industry to qualify for loan guarantees to make high-efficiency, underground transmission lines more cost-effective.
Working to Improve National Security through Energy Security:
I introduced a bipartisan bill called the Domestic Fuel for Enhancing National Security Act of 2011 or D-FENS Act, to give the Department of Defense (DoD) and civilian agencies the ability to sign longer term contracts with advanced biofuel producers, which will unlock investment in Washington state's emerging advanced biofuel industry.
Historical Investments and Incentives for Made-in-America Clean Energy:
I worked with the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition and House leaders to pass robust support for the American clean energy industries as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. According to the Vice President's December 2009 "Progress Report: The Transformation to a Clean Energy Economy," this legislation will assist the United States in the creation of more than 800,000 clean energy jobs, and will double American renewable energy manufacturing and generation capacities, by the year 2012.
Creating the Clean Energy Corps:
I authored the Clean Energy Corps program, which was signed into law by President Obama in 2009 as part of the Edward Kennedy Serve America Act. This new program will help youths up to age 25 get green jobs training through 2 year positions with the AmeriCorps Program.
Authored Net Metering Bill
I introduced the Americans Making Power (AMP) Act, which would establish a national standard for "net metering". Setting national net metering standards will simplify consumer interconnection to the electric grid, which, over time, will bring down costs to consumers, increase private investment in renewable and alternative energy sources, and continue to diversify energy resources in the U.S., all critical pieces for American energy independence.

Source: http://inslee.house.gov/issue/energy
