Public Statements
Issue Position: Economy and Jobs
Issue Position
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 1, 2011
Location: Unknown

The current state of the economy is not good enough for America. My top priority is to advance policies that will create a stronger and more resilient economy to help America emerge from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. I am very proud of the entrepreneurs in Washington state that have historically developed high-skill, family-wage jobs in innovative industries such as aerospace, biotechnology, software, and clean energy technology
More work is needed to stabilize the economy, help Americans find work, and spark investment and innovation in American businesses. As your representative in Congress, I will continue to work on innovative policy proposals aimed at creating new businesses and jobs in Washington state and turning around our economy.
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
As you may know, I twice voted against the bail out for Wall Street, and instead have supported targeted programs to help create and save jobs for American teachers and small business owners on Main Street.
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, was the first bill passed into law after President Obama took office, and analysis shows that it has been effective in stabilizing our economy and promoting economic growth. Economists say that without targeted government interventions, America would have lost twice as many jobs as actually were lost and the unemployment rate would have peaked at 16.5 percent.
Services provided by my Congressional office helped local applicants compete for Recovery Act funding, and to secure $204,307,412 in the First Congressional District and over $1,279,164,744 in Washington state, for projects that have helped create or save over 14,374 local jobs.
Recovery Funds at Work in King County
In King County, $10.2 million was secured by the Workforce Development Council to provide jobseeker support and job training for more than 900 people in new green skills and occupations. For example, $3.8 million will go to the Sound Energy Efficiency Development Program to help 473 residents earn certificates in energy auditing and building operations. In addition, $2.8 million was used for the King County Work Training program - which helped 260 youth (aged up to 24) get summer internship jobs.
The Jobs for Main Street Act passed the House of Representatives with my support would make targeted investments to hire and retain teachers, police, and firefighters, rebuild highways and transit, and boost small business.
Small Business
Washington state is a recognized leader in small business creation. Ensuring that small businesses have access to credit markets is essential for economic recovery of our state and nation. The House of Representatives passed the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act with my support, to create programs to boost bank lending to small businesses struggling to gain access to credit due to the financial crisis.
I supported the HIRE Act, which passed into law to create jobs by providing tax incentives for businesses hiring unemployed Americans. The Treasury Department reports that by June, these tax exemptions helped American businesses hire 5.6 million new workers who had been unemployed for eight weeks or longer. In Washington, businesses are eligible for credits for at least 153,521 new hires between February and June of 2010.
I have also supported the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act which passed the House of Representatives to provide tax incentives to spur investments in small businesses, and for entrepreneurs looking to start a business.
Aerospace
The aerospace industry is a critical part of Washington state's economy that creates high-skill, family-wage jobs and marks our state as a leader in high-tech manufacturing. I have been involved in an ongoing effort to ensure that the Department of Defense take into account the illegal subsidies that EADS has received from foreign governments to level the playing field for the next generation Air Force refueling tanker contract. For more information on my work on the Aerospace, please click here.
Biotechnology
Washington State is a leader in medical innovation and across the state, roughly 1,060 biotech companies employ 23,047 Washingtonians. The innovation occurring in the state has produced some of the leading biologic therapies for life-threatening illnesses such as cancer, multiple sclerosis, diabetes, HIV/AIDS and many serious rare diseases. That is why, I have been working with a bipartisan group of colleagues to advance policies to protect innovation and jobs for the state's biotechnology industry while at the same time, providing a pathway for the approval of biosimilar biologics that can give patients increased access to lifesaving therapies.
Recovery Funds at Work in Snohomish County
In Snohomish County, I helped secure $2,877,237 for Low-Income Weatherization Services to create 96-118 jobs during a 2 year period, and help homeowners save money on energy bills. To reduce congestion and increase freight efficiency, $11,002,765 was granted for transportation construction funding for the Granite Falls Alternate Route - creating 50 construction jobs. In addition, $323,367 was granted from the Department of Justice to fund six Deputy Sheriffs
Recovery Funds at Work in Kitsap County
In Kitsap County, I helped secure $3.8 million for the Viking Way expansion in Poulsbo. After that project was completed, some of that funding was left over, which was then donated to Safe Routes for Schools.
Economic Opportunities in a New Clean Energy Economy
I believe that one of the best sources of job creation is in responding to the global climate crisis by creating new green collar, clean energy jobs. We cannot afford to continue to send billions overseas to pay for Middle Eastern oil to fuel our cars and trucks, and we cannot afford to allow the jobs of building electric cars to go to China. I led an effort to get $2 billion included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for the domestic manufacturing of advanced batteries. Today, because of this program, formerly unemployed U.S. auto workers have been reemployed to manufacture advanced batteries for an American auto company.
The Home Star Energy Retrofit Act that passed the House of Representatives with my support will provide immediate incentives for consumers to make their homes more energy-efficient and is projected to create 168,000 jobs in construction, manufacturing, and retail - some of the hardest hit sectors by the recession. These energy efficiency retrofits will also help 3 million families cut energy costs by up to $500 per year.
I also supported the American Clean Energy and Security Act, which will make polluters pay for harmful greenhouse gas pollution, and is projected to direct $3.2 billion in clean energy investments to Washington state, therefore growing an estimated 34,000 local clean energy jobs.
Helping our Local Communities Create and Save Jobs
Teaching and Public Safety Jobs
This bipartisan group introduced H.R. 1548, the Pathway for Biosimilars Act. The legislation protects patients by ensuring patient safety, recognizing the scientific differences between drugs and biologics, maintaining the physician-patient relationship, and preserving incentives for innovation. We also authored an amendment in the Energy and Commerce Committee markup of health care reform that includes 12 years of data exclusivity, ensuring not only that these life-changing and life-saving biologic treatments are more accessible and affordable, but that we also foster continued research and development investment needed to search for new cures and treatments. This provision has now been passed into law.
Jobs for Youth
I authored a program called the Clean Energy Service Corps, which was passed into law that will create training and education programs for youth. Non-profit organizations, universities, and state and local governments are eligible to apply for competitive grants to provide economic and educational opportunities for youth to operate public service projects to improve the energy conservation and efficiency of residential and public building spaces.
The House of Representatives has also passed legislation to create about 300,000 summer job opportunities for young people.
Long-Term Economic Recovery
To succeed in long-term economic stability, we must encourage innovation and the workforce training programs for the future. I am a strong supporter of reauthorizing the America Competes Act, which has passed the House of Representatives. This legislation supports innovation - by investing in modernizing manufacturing, basic research and development; clean energy research, and creating the next generation of entrepreneurs by improving teaching in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math.
Building on our experience with hydropower, the Puget Sound area has an opportunity to lead in innovative ocean renewable energy technologies and manufacturing. Washington state companies, universities, research institutions and public utilities are working to bring affordable, reliable and abundant electricity to major urban load centers located near Puget Sound. I introduced bipartisan legislation called the Marine Renewable Energy Promotion Act of 2009 to facilitate the deployment of marine renewable energy projects in partnership with research institutions.

Source: http://www.house.gov/inslee/html/issues_economyjob.shtml
