Public Statements
Issue Position: Transportation
Issue Position
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 1, 2011
Location: Unknown

Investments in our national, regional, and local transportation systems are critical to our nation's economic recovery and future growth. However, time, weather, population growth and regular wear-and-tear are degrading our transportation system. We must build a 21st century transportation system that promotes efficiency and quality of life and meets the needs of the present while anticipating our needs of the future.
Federal Funding for Washington State Ferries
I worked with Senators Murray and Cantwell and Representative Larsen to secure $2.9 million for the Washington State Ferry New Vessel Propulsion in FY 2010. This critical funding will support the manufacture of a new propulsion system for new auto-passenger ferries that will carry up to 1,500 passengers and 144 vehicles each, improving our ferry system's aging infrastructure.
Increasing Transportation Choices in Washington
Together with Reps. Russ Carnahan (D-MO) and Russ Holt (D-NJ), I introduced H.R. 2724, the National Transportation Objectives Act of 2009. This legislation defines a set of objectives and performance targets that will move national surface transportation system forward in a way that addresses the U.S.'s economic, energy, and environmental challenges. H.R. 2724 establishes six National Transportation Objectives: to promote energy efficiency and energy security, ensure environmental protection, improve economic competitiveness, increase safety and public health outcomes, improve system conditions and connectivity, and provide equal access to urban and rural communities.
I also support providing transit systems with more local control of their federal transit funds, allowing them to preserve critical service and hold down fares during tough economic times so that working people may be offered quality, affordable public transportation. Hearing about the challenges facing the transit systems in the 1st District, I urged House Leadership to include a provision allowing for state and local transit systems to temporarily use federal funding for operation expenses, which transit systems have indicated is a necessity for sustaining their operations and jobs at a time when transit ridership is at record highs. This provision was included in H.R. 2847, the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act and became public law. The HIRE Act contains targeted investments of $75 billion for highways and transit.

Source:
