Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 1, 2011
Location: Unknown

Education is a key element for our nation to continue being competitive in the global economy and stay on the cutting edge of ingenuity and innovation.
I believe that national education policies and federal funding priorities help improve learning environments for students, teachers and administrators in our schools and universities. The federal government is an important partner to the states and local school districts in meeting our children's educational needs.
American Innovation and Competitiveness through Science, Math, Engineering and Technology Education
On May 28th, the House passed the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act . This bill, among other research and development provisions, will strengthen math and science education to prepare students for the jobs of the 21st Century. As our economy recovers from the worst recession since the Great Depression, we need to look in every classroom for new game-changing opportunities. At this critical juncture for the economic future of our nation, it is imperative that we invest in education.
Fighting Childhood Obesity
The growing rate of childhood obesity and diabetes is very troubling to me. A University of Washington study showed that nearly a quarter of WA state's eighth, tenth and tweth-graders are overweight or obese. I worked with a bipartisan group of colleagues, Reps. Kind and Wamp, to author and pass the FIT Kids Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. This legislation enables schools, districts and states to get credit under the No Child Left Behind law for improvents that they make the quantity and quality of physical education taught in schools. Daily physical education at school is proven to help kids do better and school as well as develop the skills, behaviors, attitudes, and confidence they need to lead healthy, active lives and become healthy, active adults. However, due to tight budgets, and requirements under federal policies, many school districts are dramatically cutting physical education programs.

Source:
