Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Nancy Pelosi and The Honorable Steny Hoyer
Letter
By: Maurice Hinchey Keith Ellison Anna Eshoo Dennis Kucinich Mike Honda Gary Peters Lois Capps Jim McGovern Lloyd Doggett II Peter Welch Zoe Lofgren David Price Paul Tonko Jim Moran, Jr. Jim Langevin Alcee Hastings, Sr. Mike Quigley Donna Edwards John Olver Gabrielle Giffords John Lewis Earl Blumenauer Raul Grijalva Jackie Speier Steve Cohen Chellie Pingree Jay Inslee Barbara Lee Rush Holt, Jr. John Garamendi Jared Polis Pete Stark
Date: Dec. 14, 2010
Location: Unknown

Dear Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer:
While it is encouraging that the Senate tax extenders package includes a number of renewable energy and energy efficiency incentives, we are concerned that it neglects other important renewable energy incentives and includes measures that would move us further away from a clean energy economy. As the House considers this package, we ask that any bill that is brought to a vote include provisions that will:
1. Continue the 48C Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credit and provide an additional $1 billion for important domestic renewable energy projects, including wind and solar. This successful incentive, passed in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, was capped at $2.3 billion, and was heavily oversubscribed. If continued it will allow for further growth in American manufacturing of clean energy technologies.
2. Reduce the unnecessary ethanol tax subsidy from 45 cents per gallon to no more than 36 cents per gallon. Continuing the credit at this reduced rate would save taxpayers about $1 billion over the course of a one year extension. Corn ethanol, a mature and environmentally questionable technology, continues to receive additional, duplicative incentives from the Renewable Fuels Standard mandate.
3. Eliminate the wasteful and environmentally-damaging "coal to liquids" tax subsidy. Over its lifecycle, liquid is responsible for nearly twice the greenhouse gas pollution as conventional fuels. Liquid coal production requires four gallons of water for every gallon of fuel produced. Furthermore, encouraging this fuel would only worsen the damage that coal mining wreaks upon ecosystems and communities. Earlier this year the House passed legislation that had removed this credit from Senate legislation, demonstrating the House's opposition to the extension of this wasteful subsidy.
This moment stands to be a crucial turning point for whether our clean energy economy falters or flourishes. We thank you for your attention to this matter.
Sincerely,
Lloyd Doggett
Jay Inslee
Earl Blumenauer
John Lewis
Mike Honda
Jim Langevin
Gabrielle Giffords
Zoe Lofgren
Jared Polis
Peter Welch
Jackie Speier
Rush Holt
Maurice Hinchey
Steve Cohen
Barbara Lee
Paul Tonko
Chellie Pingree
Raul Grijalva
James McGovern
Fortney (Pete) Stark
Anna Eshoo
John Olver
David Price
Lois Capps
Dennis Kucinich
James Moran
Mike Quigley
John Garamendi
Alcee Hastings
Keith Ellison
Donna Edwards
Gary Peters

Source: http://stark.house.gov/images/stories/111/letters/2010/121410coal.pdf
