Public Statements
Inslee Announces New Marine Renewable Energy Grants for Washington State
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Oct. 26, 2010
Location: Shoreline, WA

This afternoon, the Departments of Energy, Interior, and Commerce announced new grants to fund marine renewable energy projects in Washington State. Parametrix will be awarded $500,000 for their marine spatial planning project and the University of Washington will receive $746,000 for the study of marine energy generation effects on sea life. Rep. Jay Inslee (WA-01) led the effort to include authorization for the first marine hydrokinetic R&D program in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. Today's announcement comes on the heels of Rep. Inslee's introduction, with Rep. Brian Baird, of the Marine and Hydrokinetic Renewable Energy Promotion Act of 2010 that would establish a series of competitive demonstration grants to demonstrate the commercial applications of marine renewable energy.
"Marine renewable energy has the potential to become a leading supplier of energy for large parts of our country," explained Rep. Inslee. "Today's grants show our commitment to moving forward on technology to harness this nearly limitless energy resource. Washington State's academic institutions, research labs, utilities and private sector have already laid the groundwork to lead in the development of marine energy and I expect we will continue to see the economic benefits."
The specifics of today's grants are as follows:
Bayesian Integration for Marine Spatial Planning and Renewable Energy Siting
Parametrix (Auburn, Washington) will apply advanced probabilistic statistical methods to integrate oceanographic, ecological, human use data, stakeholder input, and cumulative impacts for the purpose of evaluating ocean renewable energy siting proposals. The project team has experience with two such methods that, when integrated, can support the needs of ocean renewable energy planning in the context of coastal and marine spatial planning and beyond.
Approximate award amount: $499,000 (over two years); Funding agencies: BOEMRE, DOE, NOAA
Evaluating Acoustic Technologies to Monitor Aquatic Organisms at Renewable Sites
The University of Washington -- School of Aquatic and Fishery Scientists (Seattle, Washington) will evaluate the ability of three classes of active acoustic technologies (echo sounders, multibeam sonar, and acoustic camera) to characterize and monitor animal densities and distributions at a proposed hydrokinetic site. In this two year study, the University of Washington and its partners will deploy instrument packages in northern Admiralty Inlet, Washington, the site of the Snohomish Public Utility District's proposed tidal energy demonstration project. Approximate award amount: $746,000 (over two years); Funding agencies: DOE, BOEMRE, NOAA

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/inslee_marine_renewable_grants.shtml
