Public Statements
Inslee Introduces "Biojet" Bill
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 30, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

This week Rep. Jay Inslee (WA-01) introduced H.R. 6343, the Clean Renewable Jet Fuel Act. The legislation would create a loan program to businesses capable of producing renewable, low-carbon fuel options for aviation that currently suffers from skewed market forces favoring dirtier fossil fuels. Renewable aviation biofuels have been successfully tested in flights of both military and civilian aircraft.
"By providing a loan program to renewable aviation fuel endeavors, we encourage significant private investment in a fuel option with huge potential to provide a viable clean fuel alternative for our aircraft," said Inslee. "The commercialization of these products will not only create jobs, the fuels that will be produced will also enhance our nation's energy security as all the materials necessary can be grown right here at home."
"We commend Rep. Inslee and others for their leadership in addressing the need for renewable aviation biofuel," said Boeing Vice President of Environment and Aviation Policy Bill Glover. "This legislation can provide the needed assurances that growers, processors and investors need to help us jump start this sector and allow a continuation of the global cultural and economic benefits that aviation provides."
Biofuels offer a range of attractive technological and environmental aspects that will introduce efficiencies into the aviation sector that cannot be realized with current petroleum-based fuel sources. Unfortunately, the volatility of jet fuel prices makes it difficult for renewable jet fuel to compete with lower-cost petroleum based fuel and attract the investment necessary to build commercial-scale refineries.
The loan program would be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture and be conducted in several phases over the next two years. Interested parties would submit bids based on their own unique financial situation; the Administrator would then choose the best bid based on criteria that they develop as part of their contracting process (the total number of projects that can qualify for this loan program is capped at 10).
Once a project has begun, loans can be taken on a periodic basis as needed by the company (the amount of the loan is a function of the company's bid price and the market price for crude oil). If a loan is not needed for a payment period, then the company enters into a short term repayment phase until the company needs to take another loan. At the end of the initial term of the loan, if the company still owes the government money then it enters into a second phase where the remainder of the loan amount is spread out over secondary term, while interest accrues.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/inslee_introduces_biojet_bill.shtml
