Public Statements
Inslee's Leadership Helps Bring About Breakthrough on Use of "White Spaces"
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 23, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

This morning, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) unanimously approved new rules for the unlicensed use of unused television spectrum referred to as "white spaces." Across the country, this unused spectrum exists between television channels -- white spaces -- that can be utilized for high-speed wireless broadband service, without interfering with television programming. Often referred to as "Super W-Fi," the white spaces have the power to deliver the next wave of wireless broadband innovation and access to consumers from Bothell, WA to Washington, DC. In 2007, Rep. Jay Inslee (WA-01) sponsored the Wireless Innovation Act, which pushed the FCC to resolve the issues surrounding the white spaces and to clear the way for the technological revolution. Rep. Inslee has been a tireless advocate for policies to spur American innovation including the use of white spaces for data use.
"American innovation is the driving factor in the American economy and today's ruling gives that innovative spirit a great deal of open running room," said Rep. Inslee. "This has been quite a long process, but in the end the FCC made the right decision to allow white spaces technology to move forward. This technology will benefit consumers in a variety of ways, not the least of which will be the high speed transmission of data between our energy using devices and our growing smart grid system that will make us far more efficient in our use of energy."
Today's ruling by the FCC is the first distribution of spectrum in more than two decades. Television's white spaces hold the potential for great innovation including low-cost rural wireless broadband service and the wireless distribution of content within the home and office. Previous opening of spectrum in the 1980's led to an innovation and technology boom. The availability of unregulated spectrum provides nearly boundless possibilities for the development of new technologies and markets; and will bring high-speed wireless connectivity to consumers across the country, including rural areas previously underserved by wi-fi networks.

Source:
