Public Statements
Safe Drug Disposal Act Of 2010
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 22, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Speaker, we have a good bill here, a bipartisan bill, to help us move forward to reduce the rate of abuse of prescription drugs.
Three years ago, local agencies and community leaders came to my office and told us we had this problem because prescription drug overdoses are rising rapidly, and there is really no way to dispose of legitimate prescription drugs in a legal, easy-to-use fashion under our current laws.
So for 3 years now we have been working in a bipartisan fashion to come up with a solution, and I am very happy to say that with the strong support of 55 national and regional organizations and the leadership of Chairman Waxman and Representatives Stupak, Moran and Smith, we have found a solution that does protect the public and the environment from harmful drugs.
You know, prescription drug abuse really is a growing epidemic. Back in my home State of Washington prescription drug overdoses have now surpassed car accidents as the leading cause of accidental death for people ages 35 to 54. Washington has the sixth highest rate in the Nation of prescription drug abuse among 12-to 17-year-olds; and, unfortunately, today's medicine cabinets have become tomorrow's drug dealers' storage sites.
Kids are abusing leftover prescription drugs and getting addicted or, in the worst cases, dying. Just yesterday, nine middle school children in Bremerton, Washington, were hospitalized after popping prescription pills that one student brought to school from home.
So in Washington State, local agencies and community groups like Group Health and Bartell Drugs have tackled this problem head-on and have developed successful pilot safe drug disposal programs. These brick and mortar drop-off locations and mail-back programs give communities of all sizes an easy disposable system to dispose of unneeded drugs. But these programs have gone as far as they can, and right now they face the legal walls to grow these programs to make them more effective and easier for our communities to use.
So, we now have a commonsense solution, which is this bill, and we need to make sure these programs are put in place for all prescription drugs to keep these powerful substances off the streets and out of our drinking water. This legislation will solve those problems.
I want to note one success of this bill. Bart Stupak and others have been really great leaders in designing a program that would be flexible and easy for communities to use. We wanted to make sure that we got communities to design their programs so that they would have a multiple suite of different systems to use on how to run these programs. I want to congratulate Bart and others in helping us fashion this.
And with that, I urge our support for H.R. 5809.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
