Public Statements
Rep. Jay Inslee Joins with Secretary Locke to Announce $54 Million Investment for Broadband in Washigton
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 18, 2010
Location: Shoreline, WA

This morning, Rep. Jay Inslee (WA-01) joined Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke to announce more than $54 million in Recovery Act funding for investment in expanding broadband access to underserved areas throughout Washington state. Washington state's Northwest Open Access Network (NoaNet) will receive $54.5 million in Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP) funding which will be paired with $23.5 million in matching contributions. 206,400 people statewide, including 14,000 businesses, will benefit from the expanded broadband service. The investment is made possible by passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
"Investment in broadband will be a fuel for the engine of our economic recovery," said Rep. Inslee. "NoaNet's State of Washington Broadband Consortium is one more link in our economic chain that will bring broadband access to underserved communities in the 1st district, and build upon the open Internet that has created millions of new jobs and given thousands of Washingtonians access to the global marketplace."
The Port Gamble S'Klallam and Suquamish tribes on the Kitsap Peninsula will have broadband access improved and expanded because of today's announcement. Through the Kitsap Public Utilities District (Kitsap PUD), $3.4 million in funding will go towards 20 schools, 2 community centers and 13 police and fire stations. These projects will include locations such as the Port Gamble S'Klallam Tribe's Little Boston library and the Suquamish Tribe's Indianola Community Center.
"The broadband investments announced today are going to put people to work in the near term, but they also will lay the groundwork for sustainable economic growth down the road," U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said. "These projects will connect Americans who have for too long been without the full economic, educational and social benefits of high-speed Internet access -- access central to success in the 21st Century."
"The expansion of the broadband capabilities in the Suquamish Tribal community will strengthen our ability to contact first responders more quickly and improve the mobilization and utilization of these critical resources in the event of a major disaster," explained Morrie Black Eagle, Deputy Executive Director of the Suqumish Tribe. "This capability is in alignment with the mission of the Tribal Government and fulfills a major gap in our communication systems."
Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) in February 2009 in direct response to the greatest economic recession since the Great Depression. The Recovery Act had three immediate goals: create new jobs as well as save existing ones, spur economic activity and invest in long-term economic growth, and foster unprecedented levels of accountability and transparency in government spending. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office recently noted that ARRA is responsible for saving or creating 2.8 million jobs.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/NOANet_Broadband_Investment.shtml
