Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of H.R. 5850, Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2011
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 29, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Madam Speaker, the previous speaker had a cute poster showing Uncle Sam talking about cuts, and we know that we have a long-term deficit issue to deal with.
But I think it's appropriate to look at the numbers, and the simple numbers are things that we ought to be able to agree on in a bipartisan basis. The numbers show that this year's bill that we will pass today spends $500 million, $500 million less than last year's bill. I want to repeat that, $500 million cut compared to last year's bill.
We are aware of the situation, and we are reducing this expenditure by $500 million. That's the math. It should be bipartisan math, and there is no question about it no matter what kinds of pictures you want to bring out on your posters.
But I also want to point out this bill does some things that are smart, looking to our future.
Number one, it makes an investment in trying to move to cleaner aviation fuels so that we can reduce carbon pollution from our air aviation industry to invest in biofuels. We just flew the first algae-based biofuel Green Hornet, an Air Force F-18, at supersonic speeds. We think we can replace a significant number of fossil fuels with green fuels. This makes an investment.
Second, this bill makes an investment in moving to the electrification of our transportation system. Americans, for the first time, are now going to be able to buy American-made cars that run on electric engines. We need a place to plug them in. This bill helps to move having plug-in stations.
We are starting that effort on the I-5 corridor up in the State of Washington and Oregon. This bill will extend those efforts to work with local communities so Americans will have a choice to buy American-made electric-powered propulsion systems, plug them in with American made plug-in stations. This is a vision for the future.
We are starting with cuts to this bill and moving with targeted investment to move to the next generation of vehicles. It's a good plan for America.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
