Public Statements
Inslee's Safe Drug Disposal Legislation Clears First Legislative Hurdle
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 22, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

This afternoon, Rep. Jay Inslee's (WA-01) Safe Drug Disposal Act of 2010, H.R. 5809 successfully passed out of the Health Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee The bi-partisan legislation would allow local communities to create safe drug disposal programs in order to give consumers a safe way to dispose of unneeded pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances. Right now, communities across the country are interested in implementing safe drug disposal programs, however, under current law, it is illegal for consumers to give controlled substances over to anyone other than law enforcement. Since most consumers don't know the difference between controlled substances and other prescription drugs this legislation is necessary to close the loophole and give consumers a safe and secure alternative to flushing or keeping unused drugs stored in cabinets where they can easily get in the wrong hands.
"We can't let today's medicine cabinet become tomorrow's drug dealer," said Rep. Inslee. "Kids are abusing leftover prescription drugs and getting addicted or, in the worst cases, dying. In Washington state, local agencies and community groups have tackled this problem head-on and developed successful pilot safe drug disposal programs. But they've gone as far as the law will let them. They have asked us for common sense changes to the law so that they can put in place programs to keep prescription drugs off the streets and out of our drinking water. This legislation does exactly that."
Prescription drug abuse is a growing problem in Washington state and around the country. Between 1999 and 2006, the number of fatal poisonings involving prescription drugs more than tripled across the United States. Prescription drug overdoses have now surpassed car accidents as the leading cause of accidental deaths in Washington state. Three in five teens say prescription pain relievers are easy to get from parents' medicine cabinets and over half of prescription drug abusers get the medicines from a friend or relative.
Until now, there has been no safe and environmentally sound way for consumers to dispose of all unwanted prescription drugs. Under current law, consumers are prohibited from giving unneeded, unused or expired drugs to anyone besides law enforcement. Some communities have established take back programs but they either cannot collect controlled substances or must be run by law enforcement. In the past, federal agencies recommend flushing unwanted drugs down the toilet. However, recent studies have shown that once flushed, the drugs can leech into local watersheds and can cause troubling environmental consequences, including disrupting aquatic species reproductive systems. Some tests have shown pharmaceuticals in municipal drinking water systems.
The Safe Drug Disposal Act would provide a safe, legal and responsible choice for drug disposal.
"I'm really so impressed with the Safe Drug and Disposal Act that's being considered because it really is kind of a whole-of-government approach and we often sometimes hear that government doesn't listen or pay attention. This is a model bill," said former Seattle Police Chief R. Gil Kerlikowske, who now serves as the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy during today's hearing. "This is a wonderful opportunity to do a better job of protecting the public and bringing to their recognition some of these dangers and, with the passage of this, as the process moves forward, we will be particularly attentive to the concerns that you have raised of the formulation of this legislation."

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/Safe_Drug_Disposal_Passes_Subcommittee.shtml
