Public Statements
Inslee Authors Bi-partisan Legislation to Mandate Improvements in Offshore Drilling Technology
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 30, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA) has authored legislation, the Offshore Drilling Safety Improvement Act, to ensure that offshore drilling operators use the best available safety technology to prevent catastrophic oil spills. This legislation is a direct response to the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, where faulty blowout preventers failed to activate, helping exacerbate the current crisis. The legislation has been co-sponsored by Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA).
"The tragic and disastrous oil spill in the Gulf occurred because of a number of shortcuts BP choose on the Deepwater/Horizon drilling platform," said Rep. Inslee. "If the airline industry was run the same way the oil industry is, no one would get on a plane. This legislation is the first step forward in fixing that flaw by applying an FAA approach to the offshore oil drilling industry. To do that, this bill and the many to come, will set a high standard of safety that the industry will be required to meet. We will lay the burden on the industry to prove they can meet the standards of safety that the American people demand."
The Offshore Drilling Safety Improvement Act amends the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to require all offshore oil rigs to use the best available oil blowout prevention and emergency shutoff technology. Current federal regulations require a cost-benefit analysis when determining the best available technology for emergency shut-off equipment and consider their regulations to be the best available technology. This bill would remove the cost-benefit analysis and instead rely on independent experts and scientists, academic institutions, and internationally used technology to determine what qualifies as the best available safety technology.
The legislation has already received support from the 55-member House of Representatives Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition (SEEC).

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/offshore_drilling_safety_improvement_act.shtml
