Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Robert M. Gates, Secretary of the Department of Defense
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 30, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

This morning, the World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute settlement panel confirmed earlier findings that Airbus has received illegal subsidies from European Governments causing adverse affects to American aerospace manufactures and in violation of WTO rules. This month, Congress passed an amendment authored by Rep. Jay Inslee (WA-01) that requires the United States Air Force to take these illegal subsidies into account to provide a level playing field for American workers and businesses in during the bidding process for the contract to build the next generation of air refueling tanker. The amendment passed 410-8.
"Today's announcement validates what we have been saying for quite some time, massive illegal subsidies to Airbus have distorted the market and given Airbus an unfair advantage that is costing American jobs," said Rep. Inslee. "That is why I have worked with my colleagues in Congress to pass an amendment to ensure the Air Force take these illegal subsidies into account in the bidding process. 40 years of illegal subsidies have already done far too much damage. If this unfair advantage is taken into account, I know American workers and manufacturers will be able to make the best product for the best price and offer the best deal for the American taxpayer."
Inslee continued, "People who thought our amendment was just a statement of intent need to rethink that, it can and should be law. This ruling and our amendment should give the Air Forces pause about proceeding with appropriations in this procurement process without taking into account these illegal subsidies."
According to the United States Trade Representative:
"The WTO Panel found that every instance of launch aid provided by certain EU nations for new Airbus aircraft over the last forty years, as well as other subsidies the United States had challenged, caused adverse effects to the interests of the United States and therefore are WTO-inconsistent subsidies. The Panel's findings also confirmed that launch aid and the other challenged subsidies to Airbus have significantly distorted the global market for large civil aircraft, and that those subsidies have directly resulted in Boeing losing sales and market share."
This afternoon, Rep. Inslee, joined by his colleagues in the House, will be sending a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates requesting the Secretary:
". . . quickly begin the process of ascertaining the extent to which the illegal subsidies have given EADS an unfair competitive advantage. We also ask that you quickly take steps to neutralize such unfair competitive advantage, in order that the tanker competition can proceed and a contract can be awarded without delays."
The full text of the letter is as follows:
June 30, 2010
The Honorable Robert M. Gates
Secretary
Department of Defense
The Pentagon, Room 3E880
Washington, DC 20301 - 1000
Dear Secretary Gates:
We have written in the past to express our profound disappointment at the failure of the Air Force to consider the multibillion dollar illegal launch aid subsidies given to EADS by the European Union. These subsidies caused serious and ongoing distortion in the global market for large aircraft, causing substantial harm to the American aerospace industry.
Earlier today, the World Trade Organization (WTO) issued a final ruling which confirms what the U.S. government has alleged for years -- EADS has received billions in illegal subsidies from the EU, and these subsidies are illegal.
We are concerned that illegal subsidies will distort the KC-X competition unless action is taken by the Air Force to create a level playing field by acknowledging the existence of these subsidies and taking steps to nullify the advantage they have given EADS. Giving appropriate and due consideration to these bid distorting subsidies in determining whom to award the contract will ensure a fair, open and transparent competition.
Our concern is shared by an overwhelming majority of the House of Representatives. On May 27th, the House passed by a vote of 410 to 8 an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act requiring that the Department of Defense consider any unfair competitive advantage an offeror may possess in the KC-X aerial refueling tanker competition.
With the vote taken on May 27th, the House of Representatives said that the KC-X contract has to be fair. A contract awarded without consideration of Airbus' illegal subsidies would be deeply flawed.
We ask that you quickly begin the process of ascertaining the extent to which the illegal subsidies have given EADS an unfair competitive advantage. We also ask that you quickly take steps to neutralize such unfair competitive advantage, in order that the tanker competition can proceed and a contract can be awarded without delays.
We look forward to working with you.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/wto_ruling_illegal_airbus_subsidies.shtml
