Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Julius Genachowski, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission
Letter
By: Maurice Hinchey John Olver Maxine Waters Lloyd Doggett II Donna Edwards Keith Ellison Loretta Sanchez Earl Blumenauer George Miller Zoe Lofgren Barney Frank Jim McDermott John Conyers, Jr. Bob Filner Tammy Baldwin Raul Grijalva David Wu Tim Walz John Tierney Jan Schakowsky Chellie Pingree Donald Payne Jerry Nadler Barbara Lee Jim Moran, Jr. Sam Farr Paul Hodes Pete Stark Peter DeFazio Jared Polis Jay Inslee
Date: June 17, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Yesterday evening, Rep. Jay Inslee (WA-01) sent a letter signed by thirty-two members of Congress supporting the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) proposal to reclassify broadband as a "telecommunications service" under Title II of the Telecommunications Act. Reclassifying broadband under Title II will allow the FCC to continue to enforce long recognized rules treating all data equally and implement the National Broadband Plan that will bring broadband service to millions of underserved Americans.
"A free and open broadband platform has transformed the ways Americans, learn, interact, and do business. As legislators committed to expanding access to open, affordable, world-class broadband networks, we have a very strong interest in promoting policies that can support these goals. To that end we strongly support your proposal to reclassify broadband as a ""telecommunications service'" under Title II of the Telecommunications Act, and Congress' commitment to begin the process of updating the Act. The actions of both the FCC and Congress are complementary and critical to ensuring that the widely supported goals of the National Broadband Plan to deploy open broadband networks to rural, low-income, and disabled Americans are realized."
The full text of the letter is below:
June 16, 2010
The Honorable Julius Genachowski
Chairman
Federal Communications Commission
445 12th Street, SW
Washington, DC 20554
Dear Chairman Genachowski,
A free and open broadband platform has transformed the ways Americans, learn, interact, and do business. As legislators committed to expanding access to open, affordable, world-class broadband networks, we have a very strong interest in promoting policies that can support these goals. To that end we strongly support your proposal to reclassify broadband as a "telecommunications service" under Title II of the Telecommunications Act, and Congress' commitment to begin the process of updating the Act. The actions of both the FCC and Congress are complementary and critical to ensuring that the widely supported goals of the National Broadband Plan to deploy open broadband networks to rural, low-income, and disabled Americans are realized.
The evolution of our communications infrastructure has driven our economy, and it has done so under the watchful eye of Congress and the Federal Communications Commission. Recently, however, the U.S. District Court of Appeals ruling in the Comcast v. FCC case has undermined the legal foundation of the FCC's authority to regulate a cornerstone of that infrastructure -- broadband technology. The court's decision rescinded the FCC's authority, under the Title I framework, to protect consumers and promote infrastructure development on the dominant communications network of our time. Clearly, this outcome is not sustainable.
We believe it is prudent for the FCC to pursue this course of action in a manner that is designed and implemented to ensure that broadband innovation remains a powerful engine of economic growth. We note that your proposal solely seeks to provide a light regulatory touch to the physical networks that connect consumers to online products and services, and only apply a limited number of Title II provisions. Additionally, this approach does not seek to regulate the content and applications that make up the consumer experience of the Internet. It is both proper and fitting to have public policies that oversee critical infrastructure to achieve the goals of the nation. The path you have chosen is well-reasoned, appropriate, and consistent with the law.
Again, we applaud your proposal and we look forward to working with you and our colleagues in Congress to deliver the social and economic opportunities of communications technology to all Americans.


Sincerely,
Rep. Jay Inslee
Rep. Jared Polis
Rep. John Conyers
Rep. Zoe Lofgren
Rep. Donna Edwards
Rep. George Miller
Rep. Lloyd Doggett
Rep. Jim McDermott
Rep. Sam Farr
Rep. Tim Walz
Rep. John Tierney
Rep. Linda Sanchez
Rep. Maxine Waters
Rep. Tammy Baldwin
Rep. Peter DeFazio
Rep. Earl Blumenauer
Rep. Maurice Hinchey
Rep. Bob Filner
Rep. Barney Frank
Rep. Chellie Pingree
Rep. James McGovern
Rep. Janice Schakowsky
Rep. Raul Grialva
Rep. Donald Payne
Rep. Keith Ellison
Rep. Barbara Lee
Rep. David Wu
Rep. Jared Nadler
Rep. John Olver
Rep. Pete Stark
Rep. James Moran
Rep. Paul Hodes

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/Inslee_fcc_letter_open_internet.shtml
