Public Statements
MSNBC "Hardball with Chris Matthews" - Transcript
Interview
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 15, 2010
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Congressman Jay Inslee is a Washington state Democrat, a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which did some of the grilling today.
Sir, were you impressed one way or the other, or did you get what you expected, by the oil execs today?
REP. JAY INSLEE (D-WA), ENERGY AND COMMERCE COMMITTEE: Well, I was impressed by being even more disturbed than I was when I woke up this morning. Number, it"s clear that this entire industry is massively unprepared to respond to a spill because they all were in the same boat with basically having a protection plan that would take care of walruses in the gulf, but nothing else.
Number two, I learned that the entire industry is really making grossly inadequate investments in safety. You know, as we drill in deeper and deeper water, the risks become higher and higher. We found out that British Petroleum, they pay their CEO three times more than they do in investments to try to determine how to do this in a safe way.
So I think the news of this hearing today is we need to actually redouble our efforts to make sure that this industry does what it needs to do. But I"m hopeful tonight. I had a feeling of hope that with the president talking tonight that we will do what America has always done in moments of great transition, like we did when the Russians launched Sputnik. We responded by going to the moon. When the Cuyahoga River caught fire in Ohio in the mid-"70s, we responded with Clean Air and Clean Water Acts.
And I think the president tonight has a chance to spark a new American economic revolution, where we start weaning ourself off the next several decades off of oil to more economically productive electric cars, electric batteries. We start selling those to the Chinese rather than vice versa. So I think there"s good hope tonight with the president to light that fire.
MATTHEWS: Well, I love your reference to the fire on the Cuyahoga River.
Anyway, Congressman Bart Stupak grills the chairman and CEO of ExxonMobil. Let"s listen to him,
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. BART STUPAK (D), MICHIGAN: So but for the grace of God, there goes I (ph), right? It"s BP this time. It could be ExxonMobil tomorrow. Could be Chevron tomorrow.
REX TILLERSON, EXXONMOBIL CEO: We have to take every step to prevent these things from happening because when they happen, it is a fact that we"re not well equipped to prevent any and all damage. There will be damage occur.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MATTHEWS: Not well equipped. Talk about an understatement. How about not equipped? What do you make of the fact that these companies are willing to sign permits when they do this drilling, deep sea drilling, that says they have the safety capability to deal with spills, and even greater spills than the one that"s occurred?
INSLEE: Well, there"s a real sad fact. When you drill in 5,000-feet-deep water and more, you are creating great risk to the environment and to the economy, no matter what you do, because if you get a large blowout, what the president of Exxon said was true in that regard, your goose is cooked because even with the best technology, we"re only going to get a small percentage recovered. That"s why we need to demand from this industry the same level of safety we have in the aviation industry.
And I have to tell you, I watched British Petroleum drive by not one stop sign, maybe a dozen stop signs. They blew right by them and caused this spill. And I tell you, if we had that same lack of responsibility in the aviation industry, no one would get on an airplane. So we have to have a very rigorous recalibration of our regulatory system. And then we have to figure out a way to move off of oil because that"s really the only way to prevent the ultimate damage to the ocean.
Some of the CEOs today, they were a little bit--they didn"t want to admit this, but the fact of the matter is that every oil well spills carbon into the atmosphere because carbon dioxide makes the oceans acidic. They"re 30 percent more acidic because of the carbon we burn. We got to find a new technology to do that, and I hope the president"s going to talk about this tonight.
MATTHEWS: You know the old expression, It"s the poor workman who blames his tools?
INSLEE: I hope Chris is still there.
MATTHEWS: It sounds to me from what you"re...
INSLEE: Because I"m not hearing him.
MATTHEWS: Can you hear me now?
INSLEE: Chris, we"re...
MATTHEWS: Can you hear me?
INSLEE: ... suffering in silence here because I can"t hear you.
MATTHEWS: OK. We"re going to have a problem here. We"re going to have to--what are we going to do now? We"re going to have to go to somebody else. Let"s go right now to Jon Allen. We"ll get back to Congressman Inslee, if we can.
Joining us right now is Politico"s Jonathan Allen. I was going to ask the congressman, but I"ll ask you. Do you think during the course of testimony today that these companies were able to say it was an equipment breakdown? You know, it isn"t the tools that are to blame. I"m told by experts that it"s management decisions, as the congressman allowed right then, that cause this spill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/37728075/ns/msnbc_tv-hardball_with_chris_matthews/
