Public Statements
Rep. Inslee Helps Secure Federal Funding for Energy Efficiency Project on Bainbridge Island
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 11, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

This afternoon, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) announced that the Conservation Services Group, Inc. has been selected to receive $4,884,614 in funding from the Economic Recovery Act under the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) program. The Conservation Services Group is a joint project between the City of Bainbridge and the City of Bremerton. The project earned significant support and assistance from U.S. Representative Jay Inslee (WA-01), a strong supporter of local efforts to increase energy efficiency, who wrote a letter to the Secretary of Energy Steven Chu in support of the grant application.
"The United States is the Saudi Arabia of energy efficiency," said Rep. Inslee. "To move toward a more energy efficient world, we have to start locally, in our own communities. Increasing our energy efficiency is a low-hanging fruit in our quest to break our addiction to oil and other dirty, dangerous fossil fuels."
The objective of the Conservation Services Group project includes leveraging of Puget Sound Energy utility program dollars, Kitsap Credit Union's capitalization, and Kitsap County funds for revolving loans that will allow property owner's investments in energy efficiency improvements and solar energy systems. The project will conduct first and second tier energy assessments of fifty-percent of the single-family homes (approx. 4,000) on Bainbridge Island within three years. To increase energy efficiency of local homes, the project proposes a robust and fully replicable suite of innovative strategies to assist residential homeowners through the audit-to-retrofit process. The project will recruit and train energy auditors and retrofit work contractors. It will also ally with training programs in the City of Bremerton that focus on training unemployed workers.
"This project will create local jobs and help local homeowners make their houses more energy efficient. It's a win now and a win for our future," Inslee said. "It directly meets the needs of our community and will help reduce how much energy we use. To increase our energy efficiency, we can all chip in by taking personal responsibility for our energy usage."
In addition to his support of this project, Rep. Inslee and his wife are participating in the Demand Response Program, an energy efficiency pilot program launched by Puget Sound Energy in cooperation with the Bainbridge Island Community Energy Task Force. The program tests new technology that auto-regulates energy load during peak-usage hours to reduce energy consumption. The funding for the Conservation Services Group's project will create local jobs to install similar measures and provide other energy efficiency assistance to local homeowners.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/BI_energy_efficiency_grant.shtml
