Public Statements
Urging U.S. Action and International Agreement on Ocean Acidification
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 9, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, we have a resolution before us that deals with a problem of extraordinary dimensions having to do with the health of our oceans. I want to thank Chairman Rahall, Chairwoman BORDALLO, Majority Leader Hoyer, Subcommittee Chair BRIAN BAIRD and their help in getting a resolution to the floor to deal with this extraordinary threat.
We know how much Americans today are feeling heartsick about the damage to our gulf and perhaps the Atlantic Ocean as a result of the oil spill we are now suffering.
But what our resolution attempts to do is to focus on another perhaps worse threat to the oceans today associated with the burning of fossil fuels, and that is the sad, unalterable, unambiguous, scientifically certain fact that our oceans are becoming more acidic, substantially more acidic, as a result of carbon-based pollution from our burning of oil and coal and other fossil fuels.
Because what we have learned in our research--and we have had a number of hearings on this--is the scientific community is telling us that, because of carbon dioxide pollution that comes from burning oil and coal, what happens is that the carbon dioxide that is coming out of our smokestacks and our tailpipes is going over the oceans and then is going into solution into the oceans of the world.
Fully over a quarter of all the carbon that we have burned, after digging it out of the ground and piping it up from below, has now found its way into the oceans. This is a scientific fact. All scientists, Republicans and Democrats, agree on this. As that carbon dioxide goes into the ocean, it creates acid, it creates acidic conditions. Today, the oceans are almost a third, 26 percent, more acidic than they were before we started to burn fossil fuels.
Now, the disturbing part of this is that acid, as you can imagine, does not seem a safe, benign condition in our oceans. The bad news is that the scientists have told us in our investigations that this acidification of the oceans is now increasing at dramatic rates. The oceans are 26 percent more acidic than they were before we started to burn coal and oil. But by the end of the century, by the end of my grandchild's lifetime, the oceans will be 100 percent, they will be twice as acidic as they have ever been during humans' time on Earth. And this is presenting extraordinary danger to humans because we have an attachment to the oceans.
And what we are being told by the scientific community is that the danger of these acidic conditions are that it makes it difficult, if not impossible, for huge swathes of the life in the ocean to survive. The reason is that large parts of the ocean community depend on taking calcium carbonate out of the water. They precipitate--that's a scientific term--they precipitate calcium carbonate into their shells.
Coral reefs take calcium carbonate to make coral reefs. Clams take calcium carbonate out to make shells. Perhaps most importantly, large amounts of the plankton that are the base of the food chain take calcium carbonate out to make the little structures of their bodies that make these little shell-like forms.
And as the water becomes more acidic--and this is what's disturbing and this resolution is intended to focus America's attention on--as the waters become more acidic, these life forms actually dissolve in the acidic water of the oceans. We are now approaching the area, the level, where the acidic waters of the Pacific, Atlantic, Southern, Northern oceans will actually dissolve these life forms.
Let me tell you how dangerous this is. Dr. Jane Lubchenco, the director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, has come to us and actually shown us photographic evidence of shells, the little calcium carbonate sources of 40 percent of the base of the food chain. She showed us pictures of these little creatures actually dissolving in water that will be as acidic as it will be at the end of the century if we don't change things.
Now, there is no mystery about this. It's a scientific fact that the waters are becoming more acidic because of carbon dioxide, and it's a scientific fact that large parts of the Earth's oceans are dependent on this phenomena of taking calcium to form their life.
So what does that mean to us? Well, what it means to us in our grandchildren's lifetime is if we don't change what we are doing in an industrial basis, we will have significant reduction in mankind's use of the oceans, because fully 500 million people in the world depend on their protein from the oceans. Many Americans, including 2 million Americans, make their livelihood from the oceans that are going to be in jeopardy because of ocean acidification.
Seventy billion dollars a year of the U.S. economy is dependent on what is now jeopardized by the oil spill today in the gulf. But when you see those shrimp farmers and oystermen and fishermen whose livelihoods are at jeopardy in the gulf coast today, it is all the fishermen around the world whose livelihood is jeopardized by ocean acidification.
Let me note some of the scientific evidence about this. I will quote from Dr. Richard Feely of Texas Tech. Quote, ``Already we've seen water showing up off the coast of northern California that's acidic enough to actually start dissolving seashells. It's thought that this kind of corrosive water showing up will become more and more common.''
A quote from Nature magazine this year: ``By mid-century, if we continue emitting carbon dioxide the way we have been, entire vast areas of both the Southern Ocean and the Arctic Ocean will be so corrosive that it will cause seashells to dissolve,'' close quote.
Quote from Nature: Quote, ``In decades, rising ocean acidity may challenge life on a scale that has not occurred for tens of millions of years,'' close quote.
Perhaps the most disturbing quote I have heard is from Ken Caldeira, an oceanographer from Stanford, who basically has told me we're heading for something he likens as an ocean full of weeds because of the destruction of these multiple life forms.
And the one that's most telling to what we are seeing today in the gulf, a quote from Donald Waters, a commercial fisherman who fishes for red snapper and king mackerel out of Pensacola, Florida: Quote, ``This is a devastating ghost lurking in the shadows that would change our whole lives,'' close quote.
So what we have today is a resolution by the House that we need to adopt policies and move forward in efforts to reduce this evil that is now lurking in the oceans of ocean acidification. We know what the culprit is; it is carbon dioxide. We know what the solution is, which is new clean energy technologies that we can embrace to try to reduce this pollution. And we know the ultimate outcome if we do not act, which is that our grandkids are not going to have an ocean as we know them.
And, personally, I can tell you it's already hit my State. Our oyster production now in the State of Washington has been severely dampened, probably because of ocean acidification that prevents the oyster larva from surviving. We don't know this for an absolute certainty yet, but this is the kind of thing that we are starting to see happen.
We are better than this. We know what the oceans mean to us, and we do not intend to leave behind an ocean without the Creator's creation of coral reefs and all the other creations of the ocean. So I commend this resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. If the gentleman will yield, it's a great question, and the answer is clear.
You look at Americans who today have it really deep in their hearts what's happening in the gulf. I know in your district, all of our folks, Republicans and Democrats, understand the damage that's being occasioned.
What Americans are not aware of yet is this other looming potential disaster in the oceans. We believe it's important for the U.S. Congress to go on record to say we, in fact, are going to deal with this, not just in a research component--and I appreciate the gentleman's pointing it out; we have passed a component to increase our research.
But research is not enough. We need action in the oceans. We need to reduce our carbon pollution in the oceans. And simply studying this problem is not enough. We can't study the problem for the next several decades and let the oceans die. So that's the reason for this resolution.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. A cap could be one of those, but there are many other policies that could be beneficial, many of which have already passed the House of Representatives, including our efforts to start building electric cars in America rather than China, building lithium ion batteries. We are opening up our first plant in Michigan where we are putting to work hundreds of out-of-work autoworkers.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I would like to just make a couple of points. First off, I want to make clear that there really is no scientific debate or uncertainty about a couple of physical facts, and I just want to make this pretty clear. You can really search the world over, and you really will not find any scientist who will dispute the conclusion that when we put carbon dioxide into the air, much of it ends up in the ocean and dissolves and creates more acidic conditions. That's an established scientific fact. The second scientific established fact is now, because of some of the great work done in part by NOAA on behalf of the Federal Government, we are finding that the oceans are becoming more acidic.
I met the NOAA ships when they docked in Seattle about a year and a half ago when they came in. They did very specific studies where they dipped little containers in the water at various places in the water column. They bring it up and they do a pH experiment to determine its acidity. We did this as juniors and seniors in high school. This is very well established science. That is an established fact. There is really no debate in the scientific community about this.
Now, there is a question of how soon the coral reefs will disappear. Is it 40 years? Is it 60 years? Is it 100 years? There is still scientific research to be done on that, but we know at some point the acidity changes the ability of these life forms to exist in the water. That is very disturbing because vast amounts of the ocean is dependent on these creatures at the bottom of the food chain. At least 15 percent of food from around the world comes from fish that are dependent on coral reefs, and when they're gone, the fish are gone. When 40 percent of the plankton are gone, the salmon are gone that my people like to go out on a Saturday and catch. I can tell you with a scientific certainty that my people do not want to risk the survival of salmon because we continue this pollution policy without dealing with it. That is a political certainty. So I think there is plenty of certainty.
Now, what policies we adopt on this, the gentleman knows there are many things to do. One of the policies that we have adopted on our energy bill would call for research to find out if there is a way we can sequester carbon dioxide from burning coal, for instance, so that if we can bury the carbon dioxide from the coal, we can continue the burning coal. That is part of our energy bill that we passed in the House of Representatives, just one of the policies of many we have.
One other comment I want to make. There is a lot of disagreement in the House about climate change and the science of climate change. We understand that. But I want to make people understand that this resolution has to do with a connected, but separate, phenomenon. If you don't think there is any climate change, if you believe that the melting of the Arctic in the tundra and Greenland is not associated with burning carbon dioxide, that's fine; but this issue we ought to have total bipartisan consensus on because there really is no disagreement about where the carbon dioxide goes. A substantial amount of it goes into the ocean and makes acidic conditions.
So I am hoping we have bipartisan consensus on this. This is related, but you don't have to be a believer in climate science to understand the clear acidification science. When you add carbon dioxide to the water, it makes it acidic. We learned this in high school. And now it's time for us to do something about it.
I reserve the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I just want to make the point and make sure Members know we are not advocating any particular policy. What we are advocating here is that we, on a bipartisan basis, take the blinders off to a problem that we have to face on a bipartisan basis. You can't run or hide from ocean acidification. The oceans will have 150 percent increase in the acidity of the oceans if we don't find a bipartisan solution to this problem. We will have more CO2 in the oceans than the last 650,000 years if we don't find some bipartisan solution to this problem.
So we just think the first step of any solution is recognizing the problem. We think we ought to recognize reality. We ought to take the blinders off, and we ought to take the first step of recognizing the problem.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. To close, I would just like to comment. We're going to have lots of debates about the right policy to deal with this problem, but the country that put a man on the Moon should not be the country to blind itself to an obvious problem. And we are going to be swallowed by this and the oceans are going to be swallowed by this unless we first recognize the problem. It's a simple bipartisan step to say we've got a problem, we've got to work together to solve it. Let's do that. I commend this and move the motion.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.gov
