Public Statements
House Passes Inslee Led Amendment to Ensure Illegal Subsidies Are Considered in Next Generation Tanker Bidding Process
Statement
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 28, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

This evening, the House of Representatives passed an amendment requiring that unfair competitive advantages, such as illegal launch aid subsidies, be considered in defense procurement by a vote of 410-8. The amendment, led by Rep. Jay Inslee with strong support from Rep. Todd Tiahrt (KS-04), Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) passed as part of consideration of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to consider, in awarding a contract for the KC-X aerial refueling aircraft program, any unfair competitive advantage a bidder may receive.
It also requires the Secretary of Defense to report to Congress on any unfair competitive advantage any offeror may possess, and take such findings into account when awarding future contracts for the program.
Rep. Inslee released the following statement following this evenings vote:
"All Americans believe in a strong national defense and all Americans believe in a fair level playing field in economic competition. In the competition for the procurement contract for the Air Force's next generation air-refueling tanker, to preserve national defense infrastructure, to preserve fairness, we need to assure that unfair competitive advantages, illegal subsidies, are in fact taken into consideration during this bidding process. Tonight we passed legislation to do that.
This legislation will insist our bidding process be conducted fairly. That when any bidder, domestic or foreign, has an unfair competitive advantage that it is taken into consideration.
At stake are 50,000 American jobs and nothing in international law compels us to provide a stimulus program for France. This legislation passed, with overwhelming bi-partisan support, because we know American aerospace workers can compete if they have a level playing field."
Studies have shown that illegal European subsidies to EADS/Airbus have contributed to the loss of more than 65,000 U.S. aerospace jobs. In spite of the World Trade Organization ruling two months ago, Europe continues to move forward with billions of dollars in additional subsidies to underwrite development of new Airbus commercial aircraft -- threatening additional U.S. aerospace jobs.
EADS/Airbus has indicated it will bid for the Air Force aerial refueling tanker contract, worth tens of billions of dollars, with its A330 airplane -- an aircraft that has received more than $5 billion in illegal subsidies.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/Inslee_Tanker_Amendment_Passes.shtml
