Public Statements
Inslee Helps Lead Bi-Partisan Effort to Enforce Fair Trade and Create American Jobs
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 13, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

This afternoon, Rep. Jay Inslee (WA-01) joined with Rep. Todd Tiahrt (KS-04), Sen. Sam Brownback (KS), Inslee Helps Lead Bi-Partisan Effort to Enforce Fair Trade and Create American Jobs
Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Rep. Henry Brown (SC-01) and others in a press conference to introduce the Fair Defense Competition Act. This bi-partisan legislation would require the Department of Defense to increase the cost of major defense acquisition bids by the amount of any government subsidies prohibited by the World Trade Organization (WTO).
"If you believe in fair trade, you should believe in enforcing fair trade rules," explained Rep. Inslee. "EADS was caught red-handed benefiting from an illegal subsidy. This won't do from a jobs perspective, it won't do from a national security perspective. If left unaddressed, this would send an immediate signal to the world, the best way to become a player in the supply of US military hardware, and at the same time hollow out our own national security manufacturing infrastructure, is by massively subsidizing your own companies."
In March of this year, the WTO completed a final panel report stating that European governments had provided illegal subsidies to European commercial aircraft manufacturer Airbus. This included illegal subsidies for the A330 airframe and its A330-200 derivative, which EADS (Airbus's parent company) has used as the basis of their submission to the Department of Defense for its bid to supply the United States military with a new air refueling tanker.
"This effort is simply about fair play," Rep. Inslee continued. "All we have asked for is that fantastic Washington workers and their families have the opportunity to compete on a level playing field. If that fairness is part of this bid process, I have no doubt that Washington aircraft workers can produce the best product for the best price."
The Fair Defense Competition Act:
* Requires the Department of Defense, in conducting a cost or price evaluation of a bid proposal, to increase the cost or price of the proposal by the amount of the illegal subsidy pursuant to a ruling of the WTO.
* Applies to both foreign and domestic companies
* Would not apply to the Government Procurement Agreement (which doesn't cover defense) -- because it is non-discriminatory -- applying to both US and foreign companies.
* Levels the playing field in the tanker competition, thus making the bid competition fair.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/Fair_Defense_Competition_Act.shtml
