Public Statements
The Dynamics Of Earth Day
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 21, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Well, I appreciate the opportunity. Thanks for carrying the load here. I just want to, in closing, note tomorrow the actress Sigourney Weaver will be hosting a movie, a documentary called ``Acid Test.'' And it's a very interesting movie with some very disturbing news about our oceans, and that is that our oceans are becoming more acidic. And what this movie discloses is that our oceans are actually 30 percent more acidic than they were before we started to burn coal and oil in the industrial age.
And the way this works, the way this movie that Ms. Weaver narrates, carbon goes up out of our smokestacks, out of our tailpipes, goes into the atmosphere, then falls into the ocean, goes into solution in the ocean, and creates acidic conditions. And I don't think probably many people know that our oceans are becoming actually more acidic.
And the concern of course is that when you change the acidity level of the ocean what it does to life forms. And we had Jane Lubchenco, who is Dr. Jane Lubchenco, who heads NOAA, our National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, the other day she showed us some time-lapse photography of what happens when you put a shell, like a clam shell, in ocean water that will be as acidic as our oceans will be by the end of the century. And it essentially melts.
What we are finding is the oceans are becoming so acidic that if this trend continues, it will actually dissolve little creatures that form calcium carbonate shells. Shells are made out of calcium carbonate. They take the calcium that precipitates out of a solution and they make a shell. And this isn't just crabs or clams or oysters or coral; it's the little pteropods, the very small creatures that form 40 percent of the bottom of the food chain in the oceans. Of course it's the bottom. And the evidence is showing this may prevent these creatures from having a healthy ability to precipitate calcium to make their body form.
So the long and the short of it is that the actor who gave us ``Alien,'' which was pretty scary, tomorrow will be showing in Congress a movie that I think is maybe at least equally as scary as ``Alien'' because this acidification of the oceans that is caused by carbon pollution has already possibly disrupted some life forms.
In the State of Washington we haven't been able to grow a baby oyster for 2 years in our oyster industry. And we are not sure yet whether that's because of an infection process or because of acidification or both. But it's an example of the kind of thing that can happen if we don't stop ocean acidification.
So the point I want to make tonight is the U.S. Senate is now considering a bill to deal with carbon pollution that will also jump-start the economy by creating thousands of green collar jobs. But to succeed in both those things, they need some limitation on the amount of carbon pollution that's going into the atmosphere. And they need that because that's the only way we are going to compete with China to drive investment in these green collar jobs, but also because it's the only way we are going to keep our oceans from becoming fatally acidic for large parts of the biosphere.
We get a lot of our human protein from the oceans. I think it is 10 or 20 percent of the human protein comes out of the oceans. So I am hopeful they will do this. And I hope they will know, too, they need some limitation on carbon pollution, because we have a way to do that right now through the Environmental Protection Agency that is going to do it. They have been ordered by the courts to do this. And we are going to either have a good carbon pollution protection system in this bill or we are going to have the EPA do it. We think it's better if Congress designs it.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. But if Congress does not design it, the EPA is going to do that. And we are not going to vote for bills that do not solve this problem that would strip the EPA of their authority to solve this problem. So we need the Senate to step up to the plate, have some system to reduce carbon pollution so that we can move forward.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
