Public Statements
House Passes Inslee Backed Legislation To Help Children Live Longer, Healthier Lives
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 21, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed by a voice vote, with bi-partisan support, the Fitness Integrated with Teaching (FIT) Kids Act, a bill Rep. Jay Inslee (WA-01) originally co-authored. The legislation requires all schools, districts and states to improve the quantity and quality of physical education taught in schools and ensure that children get the support they need to be active and make healthy choices.
"A little physical activity helps students stay healthy and achieve academically," said Rep. Inslee. "As a son of a PE teacher and the father of three very active sons, I experienced this first hand. And as a PE teacher who helped us with this legislation noted, we have No Child Left Behind, now we need a "Leave No Child on Their Behind' bill. This is a great bill, a bi-partisan bill which will help fight childhood diabetes and obesity and I'm proud to have supported it."
Nearly 10 million children and adolescent ages 6-19 are considered overweight. Childhood obesity is leading to serious health problems and potentially a 2-5 year decrease in life expectancy. One in six overweight adolescents is pre-diabetic. Increasing physical activity is an essential component of any program aimed at fighting childhood obesity, yet over the past two decades, there has been a major decline in the amount and quality of physical education taught in our nation's schools.
The FIT Kids Act, sponsored by Rep. Ron Kind of Wisconsin and co-led by Reps. Wamp and Inslee, will reverse that trend and help our children live longer, healthier lives by better integrating physical education into the No Child Left Behind Act. The bill would require annual state and local educational agency report cards to include specified information on school health and physical education programs. It also directs the Secretary of Education to contract with the National Academy of Sciences for a study that assesses the effect health and physical education have on students' ability to learn and makes recommendations for improving, their health and physical education in schools.
"Daily physical education at school will help kids develop the skills, behaviors, attitudes, and confidence they need to lead healthy, active lives and become healthy, active adults. The FIT Kids Act and similar legislation aimed at teaching our kids to make healthy choices are essential pieces of the puzzle to help solve our national problem with childhood obesity."

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/FIT_Kids_Passes.shtml
