Public Statements
Providing For Consideration Of H.R. 4715, Clean Estuaries Act Of 2010, Waiving Requirement Of Clause 6(a) Of Rule XIII With Respect To Consideration Of Certain Resolutions, And Providing For Consideration Of Motions To Suspend The Rules
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 15, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, this discussion has gotten a little bit away from this bill about trying to preserve Americans' estuaries so Americans can go fishing with their kids. It's kind of gotten a little far away from estuaries.
I will note that, painful as it is to pay our taxes, some of my constituents don't think it is a bad idea to be able to go fishing with their kids and to keep estuaries. That is a legitimate purpose, and this bill is going to help it along the way.
But my Republican colleague from North Carolina has tried to turn estuaries into the discussion about taxes because it is April 15, and I think it's appropriate to address a couple of facts about that issue, and I thought I might inject a couple facts into this discussion.
There is always a disagreement between sides of the aisle on what reality is. I thought I might turn to a fellow that might have an interesting viewpoint about this. His name is Bruce Bartlett. He is the former Domestic Policy Adviser under President Ronald Reagan and Treasury Department economist under President George H.W. Bush.
On March 19, 2010, here is what this former Reagan and Bush administration official said, and my friend from North Carolina might be interested in this from this former staffer under Republican Presidents. He said, and I quote, ``Federal taxes are very considerably lower by every measure since Obama became President. According to the JCT,'' the Joint Committee on Taxes, ``last year's $787 billion stimulus bill, enacted with no Republican support, reduced Federal taxes by almost $100 billion in 2009 and another $220 billion this year.''
Now, that is not some Democrat Member of Congress saying it. This is the official under Ronald Reagan and President George H.W. Bush.
Now, what does that mean in the State of North Carolina? My colleague from North Carolina has been down there suggesting that there has been a horrendous event on taxes. Let's look at what the Citizens for Tax Justice say the result of these tax cuts under President Obama are. Because I want to make sure people understand what they mean in the real world.
According to the Citizens for Tax Justice, in the State of North Carolina, the State that my colleague is now attacking the President from, the lowest 20 percent of her fellow citizens in North Carolina have received average tax cuts, average tax cuts, of $612. That's an average. The next 20 percent, average tax cuts of $792; the next 20 percent, average tax cuts of $646; the fourth 20 percent, average tax cuts of $711.
Providing For Consideration Of H.R. 4715, Clean Estuaries Act Of 2010, Waiving Requirement Of Clause 6(a) Of Rule XIII With Respect To Consideration Of Certain Resolutions, And Providing For Consideration Of Motions To Suspend The Rules
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. The next 15 percent, $1,900; the next 4 percent, $4,600; and the next 1 percent, $3,019.
In fact, my colleague, who is today on a bill about estuaries trying to fan April 15 into a jihad against supporting Uncle Sam, every single one of the quartiles that you represent has had their taxes cut under this President and you voted against--excuse me, Mr. Speaker--the speaker voted against every single one of those tax cuts. Those are the facts.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
