Public Statements
Rep. Inslee: President Needs "Innovate, Baby, Innovate" Plan
Statement
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 31, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Rep. Jay Inslee, a leading member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and co-author of Apollo's Fire; Igniting Americans Clean Energy Economy, released the following statement regarding the President Obama's announcement of expanded oil drilling off U.S. shores:
"Today's announcement doesn't make an energy policy. The idea that we are going to solve our energy and economic problems by drilling offshore is not supported by fact. Evidence should inform our national energy policy and evidence tells us that new drilling won't satiate our hunger for foreign oil. The United States has a mere 2 percent of the world's oil reserve while consuming a quarter of the world's oil supply. New drilling won't change this fact.

"Any "drill, baby, drill' policy must be accompanied by comprehensive policies that put a cap and/or a price on carbon, what we need is an "innovate, baby, innovate' policy. During today's announcement, the President praised new military aircraft that run on bio-fuels and announced new support for hybrid and electric cars. While these steps are productive and should be applauded, those technologies will not be cost competitive without a cap and/or price on carbon pollution.
"By restraining carbon emissions, as we did with sulfur and nitrogen dioxide, the United States will be able to compete internationally to create clean energy jobs. China is spending $12 million an hour on clean energy technologies; Europe's energy costs already drive investments into new technologies. The United States can only compete by harnessing our fundamental character for ingenuity and innovation. And the billions of dollars in investment and millions of American innovators need a price signal on carbon. Until we get that, private investment dollars will continue to sit on the sidelines or worse, flow overseas to our competitors in China and Europe.
"A world in which the United States is increasingly dependent on oil with no path toward clean energy development is a prescription for a permanent position in last place."
Congressman Jay Inslee has represented Washington State's First Congressional District since 1999. Jay is an influential member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, a member of the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming and founder of the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition, leading the way on legislation to cap emissions and build a clean energy economy. In 2008, Jay co-authored "Apollo's Fire, Igniting America's Clean-Energy Economy."

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/Innovate_baby_innovate.shtml
