Public Statements
Kind, Braley, Inslee, McCollum Finalize Major Breakthrough On Medicare Payment Reform
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee Ron Kind Bruce Braley Betty McCollum
Date: March 20, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Reps. Ron Kind (WI-03), Bruce Braley (IA-01), Jay Inslee (WA-01) and Betty McCollum (MN-04) announced a major breakthrough today on the issue of Medicare payment reform in the final health care reform bill. Kind, Braley, Inslee and McCollum have been outspoken advocates for changing the way Medicare pays health care providers for services, from its current fee-for-service system into a quality and value-based system.
Kind, Braley, Inslee and McCollum helped negotiate a compromise adding language to the health care reform bill that provides an immediate $800 million to address geographic disparities for both doctors and hospitals, as well as written guarantees from Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius for further action to reform Medicare reimbursement rates that do not qualify for reconciliation under the Byrd Rule. The Senate bill previously only provided a Medicare reimbursement fix for doctors.
The House reconciliation package maintained automatic implementation of a value index as part of the reimbursement structures for doctors, beginning in 2015. This language included the Senate bill is based on Braley and Kind's Medicare Payment Improvement Act, introduced in June 2009.
"Our current system pays for the number of procedures ordered instead of the quality of care provided; resulting in $800 billion in wasteful spending each year that doesn't help the patient," Kind said. "We're correcting the unfairness of Medicare reimbursement rates with this measure and taking steps toward historic payment reform that rewards the value of care delivered instead of the quantity of care provided. This will lead to a more cost effective way to pay for and deliver health care in our country and lower costs in the long run, making health care more affordable for all Americans."





Source:
