Public Statements
British Colombia, Washington State to Create Cascadian Innovation Corridor to Promote Regional Economic Opportunities in Tech Industries
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 20, 2016
Location: Olympia, WA

Premier Christy Clark and Gov. Jay Inslee today signed a memorandum of understanding affirming their shared interest in creating regional economic opportunities for innovation in the technology sector. Government and business leaders in British Columbia and Washington are collaborating on the development of a new 21st century tech corridor -- the Cascadia Innovation Corridor -- to encourage meaningful and results-driven innovation and collaboration.
The memorandum was signed at the Emerging Cascadia Technology Corridor: A Cross-Border Conference in Vancouver, B.C.
"Strengthening the existing tech ties between British Columbia and Washington state is a priority for both our governments. By working together, the economic opportunities, job growth and advancements in the sector will place us at the forefront of innovation," Clark said.
"We have a rich history together and have proven that we are stronger when we collaborate," Inslee said. "Through talent, transportation and innovation, we will strengthen our economies and promote prosperity for the entire region."
The creation of a British Columbia-Washington tech corridor will help expand the high tech, life sciences, clean technology and data analytics industries across borders, strengthening global economic competitiveness and job creation. The partnership aims to foster stronger ties across the Cascade Innovation Corridor, including co-hosting a future technology and innovation summit and offering joint action in research, education, workforce development and transportation and investment.
During today's meeting, Clark and Inslee also discussed climate change. British Columbia and Washington have collaborated for several years on climate action initiatives, most notably through the Pacific Coast Collaborative. The premier and governor discussed opportunities for further cooperation in this area, including cutting emissions from government operations; helping small and mid-sized businesses realize growth opportunities through the reduction of emissions; and potential collaboration on emission reduction offset and credit programs to grow regional investment in clean energy.

Source: http://www.governor.wa.gov/news-media/british-columbia-washington-state-create-cascadia-innovation-corridor-promote-regional
