Public Statements
Letter To Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp, U.S. Army Chief Of Engineers And Commanding General, U.S Army Corps Of Engineers
Letter
By: Norm Dicks Adam Smith Jim McDermott Rick Larsen Dave Reichert Maria Cantwell Patty Murray Brian Baird Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 4, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Today, Senator Patty Murray, Senator Maria Cantwell, Congressman Adam Smith, Congressman Dave Reichert, Congressman Norm Dicks, Congressman Jim McDermott, Congressman Jay Inslee, and Congressman Brian Baird, and Congressman Rick Larsen sent a letter to Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp urging the Army Corps of Engineers to continue working at full speed to complete the study phase of the Howard Hanson Dam fix and move into the design and construction phase of the project.
The delegation called on the Corps to explain in full how they plan on completing the study phase by June, 2010 in order to ensure that the project can be considered for fiscal year 2012 construction funding. The delegation also requested a meeting with Major General William T. Grisoli, Deputy Commanding General for Civil and Emergency Operations, to review this timeline and impress upon him the importance of this project for families and businesses in the Green River Valley. Members of the delegation also requested a conference call with Army Corps leadership and local officials to discuss the Howard Hanson Dam project and give them an opportunity to ask additional questions.
"Our priority at the federal level is to achieve the safest and fastest permanent fix to the Howard Hanson Dam, which requires no delays in the study, design, and construction of the projectThis decrease in the probability of flooding is a critical achievement. However, it is difficult for those who live, work, or own businesses in the Green River Valley to rest easy until the full protection offered by Howard Hanson Dam is restored." the members of the delegation said in the letter.
The full text of the letter follows:





Source:
