Public Statements
Inslee Supports Landmark Health Care Reform
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Nov. 7, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

This evening, Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA) cast his vote in favor of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. This landmark legislation will for the first time address the health care needs of Americans and no longer make health care a privilege, but a right. H.R. 3962 provides access to affordable healthcare for those who do not have it, lowers costs for working families by increasing competition through an insurance exchange program with a public option, forbids insurance companies from dropping customers when they become sick or denying coverage for pre-existing conditions, and bends the current cost curve by implementing plans to reimburse health care provides based on the quality of care they provide, not just quantity.
"When considering this issue, I thought of all the benefits my parents provided to me and what I'm going to leave for my grandchildren," said Inslee. "They deserve, as all our children and grandchildren do, affordable health care so they can live their lives to the fullest. I am proud of the work we have done on behalf of all Americans who will see their health care costs go down and their health security go up."
Ends Decades of Geographic Variation in Medicare Rates that Punish WA Doctors:
"This reform is historic for the people of Washington State. I was proud to be a member of the leadership team that negotiated to change the decade's long geographic disparity that exists in Medicare reimbursement rates. Finally Washington State's health care providers will be rewarded for their excellence in keeping costs low and quality of care high. Because of this, more doctors and hospitals will be able to offer their services in Washington state."
* The American Medical Association, just in the last few days, published a study that shows geographic disparities in Medicare reimbursements are severely flawed and that there is no justification for geographic differences in physician practice expenses.
Rewards for Quality of Care, Not Just Quantity:
"One of the issues I fought hard for in H.R. 3962 is to change the way we reimburse health care providers. This legislation will, for the first time, move health care away from the inefficient system of fee-for-service to one that recognizes quality outcomes. This means better care and lower costs for families across the country."
* The language of H.R. 3962 mandates changes to the Medicare system of geographic variations and quality metrics to be implemented by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. These recommendations will be based on quality and value as determined by studies produced by the Institutes of Medicine.
Increasing Competition Through a Health Care Exchange With a Public Option:
"The implementation of this exchange, along with the inclusion of a public option, will put affordable health care within the grasp of millions and spur competition to drive down the costs for families as well as increase access to health care for employees of small businesses."
* The American Medical Association found that, in 2008, 94% of the markets for health insurance were highly concentrated;
* And in the same year the Kaiser Family Foundation found that the average insurance premiums had grown by 120%.
Financial Security for Families:
"No longer will insurance companies be able to deny coverage for pre-existing conditions or dump patients when they get sick. The caps on insurance premiums and annual costs in this bill will save real money for families."
* Today 60% of bankruptcies in the United States are due to health care expenses.
* This bill places a cap on total out-of-pocket spending for covered benefits that cannot exceed $5,000 for an individual and $10,000 for a family.
Budget Neutral:
* According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office and Joint Committee on Taxation's assessment, enacting H.R. 3962 would result in a net reduction in federal budget deficits of $109 billion over the 2010--2019 period.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/HealthCarePassage_110709.shtml
