Public Statements
Cascadia Marine Trail Study Act
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Oct. 26, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Thank you.
Mr. Speaker, this bill simply provides for a study of feasibility of adding the Cascadia Marine Trail to the National Trails System.
This trail is entirely a water-based trail, extending from the Canadian border through the San Juan Islands, Puget Sound and south to our State capital of Olympia. Significant portions of this trail run through the waters of my district. It includes 2,300 miles of shoreline and 55 safe pullouts right now for camping areas of non-motorized, beachable watercraft.
Thousands of people have the potential of enjoying this trail. It was added as a national recreation trail in '94, and the Canoe Association designated the trail as an ACA-recommended water trail in 2005.
We know it's a beautiful spot. I've been there. I encourage everyone to give it a go. It gives users unique opportunities to see eagles, orca, otters, porpoises, and whales. It's quite a place to be, but we do think it's an appropriate study to consider its inclusion in our National Trails System given the national notoriety and publicity that this will entail, and it will allow people to really know about the trail.
I want to thank Chairman Rahall and Subcommittee Chairman Grijalva for their work to move this forward. I would like to also acknowledge the National Park Service office in Seattle for their technical assistance. I want to thank my constituents who have been working on this now for at least two decades, particularly the Washington Water Trails Association, especially Don Crook, Reed Waite and Julie Anderson for their efforts, and John Kuntz, with the Olympic Outdoor Centers, and the Kitsap Paddle Club for their leadership.
It is supported by the Washington Water Trails Association, the National Parks Conservation Association, the Washington Wildlife and Recreation Coalition, and the Washington State Parks.
I want to thank the Speaker, Mr. Larsen, for cosponsoring this bill, and I can guarantee anyone who will enjoy this national water trail that it never rains in Puget Sound.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
