Public Statements
Health Care Victory Led By Inslee And Dicks
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Oct. 22, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

At a morning press conference, Congressman Jay Inslee and Congressman Norm Dicks announced an agreement on final language on major reform to Medicare reimbursement rates that will transform the payment system for Washington State and other high-quality, low-cost states, and end decades of geographic disparities in payment. This important language will be included in final health care reform legislation in the House of Representatives. Congressman Inslee was selected by Speaker Pelosi to serve as one of the key negotiators on behalf of low-cost states.
"Today we have announced that we will no longer stand for inefficient care that costs taxpayer dollars and lives; and we will instead change the way reimburse care -- rewarding quality over quantity," said Congressman Jay Inslee (WA-01). "As part of comprehensive health care reform, Washington State seniors will be more secure in their choice of doctors and hospitals. Health care legislation will, for the first time in decades, move Medicare, and health care overall, away from the inefficient system of fee-for-service and end the geographic inequities that have cost Washington state doctors billions of dollars."
"What this means for our state is a substantial increase in Medicare reimbursements for Washington physicians and medical facilities, assuring that seniors will continue to be able to receive the care they need," Rep. Dicks added. "Because the existing system penalized states with more efficient systems like ours, reimbursement rates have been lower than the cost of providing care, diminishing the pool of doctors who will accept new Medicare patients," Dicks said.
Medicare's complex reimbursement formula has long punished doctors for providing cost-effective, high-quality care. Today's announcement that the Inslee-Dicks negotiated provision will be included in the final House bill marks the greatest advance to date in the decades-long effort to address this issue in Congress. Earlier this year, Inslee advanced the provision during committee consideration of the health care bill, and a Senate committee has adopted similar legislation. House leaders believe that the inclusion of the Inslee-Dicks provision will ensure the House passage of the health care overhaul bill.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/Health_Care_Victory_Led_By_Inslee_and_Dicks.shtml
