Public Statements
Coast Guard Authorization Act Of 2010
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Oct. 22, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Madam Chair, every year, 15 billion gallons of oil are transported through the Puget Sound and the Pacific Northwest waterways. Even a minor tanker spill could release enough oil to devastate our fragile and unique marine ecosystems of Puget Sound. In Washington State, we have been able to successfully keep our shores free from major oil spills by using tug boat escorts for laden tanker transit. The escorts reduce the risk of potentially disastrous oil spills by being ready and able to assist a tanker in a crisis or to begin the cleanup if the worst should happen. Puget Sound is also vulnerable to spills that happen in waters north of the border. Currently, Canada does not mandate tug escorts and the U.S. Coast Guard does not enforce escort requirements for ships entering U.S. waters from Canada. We share these waterways with our Canadian neighbors and I encourage working cooperatively to develop comprehensive rules to require tug escorts for laden tanker ships to protect both sides of our national borders from oil spills.
Puget Sound is a delicate and vast coastal ecosystem that is home to iconic species such as salmon, orca whales, western grebe, and rockfish. For centuries, coastal and regional communities have been dependent on the health of the Puget Sound for cultural, economic, and recreational uses. A major oil spill could disrupt Washington's environment, economy and coastal communities' way of life by severely damaging our ecosystem, shellfish and fishing industry, tribal communities, tourism and recreation.
I have seen the impacts on oil spills in Puget Sound first hand. During a recent incident in 2003, nearly 4,800 gallons of oil spilled into the Puget Sound near Point Wells, just north of Seattle and spread across the Sound to the shores of Kitsap County. The oil contaminated clams and crabs and polluted the sand and marsh grass.

Source:
