Public Statements
Inslee Announces Funding To Develop Seattle-Based Electric Vehicle Systems
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Aug. 5, 2009
Location: Shoreline, WA


Inslee Announces Funding To Develop Seattle-Based Electric Vehicle Systems
U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.) today announced that up to 2,550 battery charging systems for electric vehicles will be established throughout the Seattle area by Energy Electric Transportation Engineering Corp. (ETEC), as part of a $99.8 million grant from the U.S. Department of Energy. The ETEC grant, one of 48 total projects announced today, was made possible by an advanced battery loan guarantee program included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA).
Inslee was the leading advocate in Congress for securing the $2.4 billion funding for the program, which will accelerate domestic manufacturing and deployment of electric vehicles, batteries, and components.
"I applaud President Obama and the Department of Energy for launching this meaningful grant program and working to fulfill the promise of a clean energy economy in America," said Inslee. "Today's announcement will put Americans to work in our clean technology manufacturing sector, and will ensure that consumers can choose to drive vehicles powered by clean electricity. Once again, Washington state is on the cutting edge of emerging green technologies, and I am pleased to see the Recovery Act continuing to support workers in the Puget Sound area."
Earlier this year and last year, Inslee worked closely with both House and Senate leadership to ensure that the advanced battery loan guarantee program was included in the final Recovery Act.
"Mr. Inslee's support has been instrumental in making it a priority," said Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) during a speech on the House floor.
Throughout the Seattle area, ETEC will use the Department of Energy grant to establish a charging network for electric vehicles that can be used by any vehicle equipped with industry-standard connectors. Under the company's current proposed project, up to $20 million from the total grant award will be used for infrastructure deployment in the Puget Sound region.
Transportation currently accounts for nearly half of all greenhouse gas emissions in Washington state, including pollution from cars, trucks, planes, and ships. In order to start reversing these trends and supporting the new electric infrastructure, the King County Department of Transportation will purchase Nissan electric vehicles for use in its Vanshare, Vanpool, and county fleet programs. Nissan has also committed to make up to 1,000 electric vehicles available for purchase in the Seattle market, once its electric passenger car launches in 2010.
The ETEC funding is among $2.4 billion in grants announced today by the Obama administration. This total includes $1.5 billion for advanced battery manufacturing, $500 million for electric drive vehicle components manufacturing, and $400 million for transport electrification.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/electriccars0809.shtml
