Public Statements
Energy And Water Development And Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 15, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. I will join my colleague from the State of Washington's invitation to talk about Hanford issues at some point. I appreciate the Chair's interest in that.
I want to thank, specifically, the committee for including $1.78 billion for energy efficiency and renewable energy research, development and deployment. But I do rise with some concern that the report proposes to decrease water power R&D from $40 million in 2009 to just $30 million. While I understand that the ocean and tidal-based marine renewable energy industry is certainly nascent at this time, estimates suggest that ocean resources in the U.S. could supply more than 6 percent of our electricity generation if ocean renewable energy enjoyed the same Federal investment as other forms of renewable energy. Many countries already operate projects that generate power from both the waves and tidal and currents; and we should lead in this regard, not follow.
In Washington State these efforts are currently underway. The U.S. Navy and Verdant Power will install a demonstration project in Puget Sound in 2010, and Snohomish County PUD will install a project in Admiralty Inlet just north of Seattle in 2011. Federally backed research is underway at the Northwest National Marine Renewable Energy Center, a partnership between the University of Washington and Oregon State University. In Sequim the DOE's Marine Science Lab is researching ocean energy potential and environmental issues. Hawaii, Oregon, Maine, New York, California, Massachusetts and Alaska are also working to develop this industry. Our colleagues in the Senate have recommended $60 million for water power R&D, and I hope to work with Mr. Pastor through conference to work toward those Senate levels for this important, very promising program.
With that, I thank Mr. Pastor for his efforts.
END TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
