Public Statements
The Spectrum Relocation Improvement Act Of 2009
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 24, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

THE SPECTRUM RELOCATION IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2009
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to announce the introduction of the Spectrum Relocation Improvement Act of 2009 along with my colleagues, Mr. UPTON of Michigan and Mr. BOUCHER of Virginia. This bipartisan bill reforms the Commercial Spectrum Enhancement Act (CSEA) to make the current spectrum relocation process more transparent and reduce relocation risks for federal agencies and those interested in bidding in future auctions of federally encumbered spectrum.
Washington State is a leader in the technology industry. It is home to companies large and small that are producing the most cutting edge Internet service technologies that benefit not only my constituents in the first District, but Washington State and the country as a whole. However despite the innovative efforts going on in Washington, and across the country, the United States ranks 15th in broadband adoption of 30 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries; a ranking that President Obama has called ``unacceptable.''
Investment in broadband infrastructure and services is a necessary economic driver, and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act allocated $7.4 billion dollars to aid the build out of our nation's broadband infrastructure over current spectrum, to unserved and underserved communities. This investment demonstrates the importance of broadband services, not only for America's economic recovery, but its ongoing prosperity.
Meeting the broadband infrastructure objectives desired by the American people and outlined by President Obama will require the allocation of additional spectrum for commercial use. In order for consumers to experience the next generation of voice and broadband wireless services, the government must identify more sources of spectrum. Once the government has auctioned spectrum to carriers, it is in everyone's interest to see that consumers benefit from new services as quickly as possible.
In 2006, the Federal Communications Commission's Advanced Wireless Services (AWS) spectrum auction demonstrated that spectrum auctions can finance (1) all the Federal costs associated with clearing spectrum for commercial use, (2) enhance critical Federal communications capabilities and 3) raise revenue for the Treasury. The AWS auction raised $13.7 billion from wireless companies. That figure included roughly $1 billion to relocate federal communications systems for 12 federal agencies that had been operating in those spectrum bands. Originally, the agencies were slated to clear out of the affected spectrum by March 2010.
While relocation practices and procedures worked well for 10 of the 12 agencies involved, unforeseen problems affecting some agencies took more than a year to resolve and threatened to undermine the spectrum relocation process that the House Energy & Commerce Committee, the Department of Commerce, and the Office of Management and Budget worked for several years to implement. This bill is designed to improve the relocation process for all parties involved and address the problems that surfaced during the AWS relocation process.
Fundamentally, the Spectrum Relocation Improvement Act (1) increases the amount and quality of information available to potential bidders before an auction occurs, and (2) expedites the flow of auction proceeds to the relocating agencies to keep the relocation process on track. I am convinced that more complete information about the affected federal agencies' systems, their relocation cost estimates, and schedules reduces risks for potential bidders and ensures that commercial users' bids in future spectrum auctions more fully reflect the market value of the spectrum at auction.
In my home State of Washington we are already seeing the consumer and economic benefits of the AWS auction. T-Mobile, headquartered in Bellevue, WA, has rolled out 3G broadband service in Seattle, with 560 3G base stations, and by year's end will have built out over 900 3G base stations. This investment is adding to the local economy and job market, while providing services to customers. The company expects to deliver services to an additional 2,721,987 customers by year's end.
But this issue is not only about large companies like T-Mobile, it is about small and regional carriers that provide innovative and affordable services to consumers and often face challenges, relative to the larger carriers, in raising capital in order to bid on FCC licenses.
One successful AWS bidder--Cricket--has been in Washington State for eight years and serves a constituency often not reached by the larger carriers. Cricket provides flat-rate unlimited voice and broadband service to consumers without a long-term contract or early termination fee. Nearly half of Cricket's wireless broadband subscribers had never before subscribed to Internet service--not even dial-up.
This legislation will help ensure that customers, like Cricket's, will get to take advantage of not only the first generation of broadband services, but those still to come; and will provide the necessary structure to make sure that the next spectrum auction is successful for consumers, industry, and government.
I am pleased to introduce this legislation along with my colleague Mr. UPTON who played a major role in drafting the Commercial Spectrum Enhancement Act, and with the distinguished Chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet, Mr. BOUCHER.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
