Public Statements
Fox "Interview With Representative Jay Inslee" - Transcript
Interview
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 19, 2009
Location: Unknown

FOX NEWS CHANNEL INTERVIEW WITH REP. JAY INSLEE (D-WA)
SUBJECT: FINDING EFFICIENCIES IN THE HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYSTEM INTERVIEWER: MEGYN KELLY
Copyright ©2009 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Carina Nyberg at cnyberg@fednews.com or call 1-202-216-2706.
MS. KELLY: Democratic Congressman Jay Inslee is one of the architects behind this new bill. He is my guest now. Congressman, good morning to you.
REP. INSLEE: Good morning.
MS. KELLY: Well, that certainly sounds good. Better care, lower costs. Love it. But how do you actually make it happen? It sounds like your plan revolves mostly around finding efficiencies in Medicare.
REP INSLEE: Yes, and across our health-care delivery system. And, frankly, what we would do is try to encourage and incentivize physicians across the country to adopt some very proven measures that have been proven in quite a number of communities across the country in a way to find efficiencies and high-quality care.
And we've done this in Seattle. We've done this in Minnesota. We've done this in very many places across the country, which basically has physicians come together in what we call accountability organizations, where they work together to find standards and guidelines, how to practice medicine in a way that doesn't have what we call overutilization, of essentially doing services that really don't improve the health of Americans. We know there are huge savings.
MS. KELLY: And let me just interrupt you because I want to give our viewers --
REP. INSLEE: Mm-hmm.
MS. KELLY: -- I want them to follow this because this is a little tough to get --
REP. INSLEE: Yeah.
MS. KELLY: -- your arms around. But you -- you -- you and a lot of the other Democrats who are behind this come from states that have greater efficiencies on Medicare. And so you took a look --
REP. INSLEE: Correct.
MS. KELLY: -- and said, hey, look. And I understand, in your district -- well, they say the average for the number of times that people return to their doctors is apparently 20 percent of the visits. In some of these --
REP. INSLEE: Correct.
MS. KELLY: -- states, it's 16 percent. In your district, it's 14 --
REP. INSLEE: Correct.
MS. KELLY: -- percent. So your doctors seem to be --
REP. INSLEE: Correct.
MS. KELLY: -- a little bit more efficient; in other words, the patients come back for a repeat visit less often. And so the thought is maybe these doctors have found some efficiencies that other doctors haven't, and how can we build those into the system?
REP. INSLEE: They have. And the reason they've been able to achieve this quality is that they work together. They share information. They establish guidelines for care. And they review each other's work, frankly.
And by doing that, we've been able to keep people -- six people out of every 100 out of a rehospitalization. That's tremendous benefit for people's health care. But for the taxpayers, it's enormous benefit as well. Let me give you an example.
In Miami, Florida, the average spent on a Medicare patient per year is over $16,000 a year. In San Francisco, it's just over $8,000 a year. There's 100 percent difference on the amount spent on very similar populations. And the reasons some of these other communities have been able to reduce their costs is they come up with guidelines and standards for practice that, frankly, don't expose Americans to unnecessary surgeries, unnecessary invasive diagnostic procedures. And by doing this, we've been able to radically reduce the cost for Uncle Sam and radically improve the health care of Americans. This is a very common-sense measure.
MS. KELLY: Let me ask you about the criticism of it. Let me ask you about the criticism of it, because I read that the plan would require the creation of these organizations and these doctors would sort of set standards of care and so on.
REP. INSLEE: Mm-hmm.
MS. KELLY: Is this the federal government setting standards of care?
REP. INSLEE: No.
MS. KELLY: Is this the feds telling my doctor what he can and cannot do when he's treating me?
REP. INSLEE: Very much so the very opposite of that. Uncle Sam wouldn't be telling anyone to do anything. This is a totally voluntary measure, where doctors would be given an incentive to come together but certainly would not be required to do it.
And, very importantly -- and your question is very pivotal on this -- this would be doctors working together amongst themselves with no federal agency or bureaucracy telling them anything except that, "please work together." And what we have found that physicians, when they work together, when they review each other's work, when they communicate and share finding, they become more efficient.
The proof is in the pudding. When we can reduce costs by 50 percent from one community to another while improving people's health care, that is what we might call in D.C. a no-brainer. And we need to move forward. Congressman Earl Pomeroy and Welch have really showed leadership.
MS. KELLY: And under the congressman's plan -- now, let me just get another question in, sir, because I have to go, and I want to get this last point in.
REP. INSLEE: You bet.
MS. KELLY: Under your plan, you focus on trying to build in more value. In other words, doctors would get paid more --
REP. INSLEE: Mm-hmm.
MS. KELLY: -- for Medicare and so on for the value that they delivered as opposed to the volume --
REP. INSLEE: Correct.
MS. KELLY: -- of Medicare patients they treated.
REP. INSLEE: That's correct.
MS. KELLY: But let me ask you, is this just a sort of supplement to the plans that we've been seeing on Capitol Hill? This doesn't seem like a stand-alone plan. This seems like, "Oh, and here's an extra way to build efficiency in the system." Am I right? Is it the latter?
REP. INSLEE: It is a part of a plan. But is a pivotal part because we cannot afford -- there is not even enough money in the universe, frankly, to pay for expansion to all Americans unless we find efficiencies to reduce the rate of medical inflation. Our medical care delivery system now costs twice what it did as a percentage of our economy. When we first took a crack at this -- and, you know, in the early 1990s -- we have to find a way to restrain the rate of medical inflation while improving quality. This is one of the bricks in the wall. This is not the only answer here. It's just one of the things that, we think, need to be done so that can afford this high-quality care.
MS. KELLY: Understood.
REP. INSLEE: -- and not bankrupt America. That's required.
MS. KELLY: Well, Congressman, thank you so much for coming on, and explaining your proposal --
REP. INSLEE: Thank you.
MS. KELLY: -- to us. We appreciate you being here.
REP. INSLEE: You bet.
MS. KELLY: All the best.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcript.htm?id=20090619t5704&nquery=&query=Inslee&from=
