Public Statements
Consumer Assistance To Recycle And Save Act
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 9, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Madam Speaker, I just want to point out something about the benefits of efficiency in this bill. We know it's going to help the important
auto industry, but I want to point out how it will help consumers in efficiency.
Under this bill, Americans who participate will save an average of 133 gallons of gasoline a year by having access to a more efficient car. At the price of $2.71 a gallon, that's a saving of $368 a year in gasoline. That is 250 million gallons of gasoline that we otherwise will not be burning.
Now, the reason I point this out is there is a benefit to the environment in our efforts to stop global warming in this bill, and Mr. Israel and I had earlier introduced a piece generally in the same direction, heading with the great leadership of BETTY SUTTON and JOHN DINGELL and BART STUPAK, and we put our bills together, and this is the product.
Some folks have argued that the efficiency provisions of this bill are not aggressive enough. The bill I introduced with Mr. Israel had more aggressive targets.
But I want to point out something that is a singular achievement of this bill, and I want to thank BETTY SUTTON for her leadership on this. If we are going to stop global warming, we indeed are going to have to come together all across the country. Folks in the steel industry are going to need to work with people on the coast. People in the Midwest, in the Rust Belt States in the auto industry are going to need to work with those folks in the San Francisco Bay region.
Congress means coming together, and this bill, I think, represents a perfect example of how our Nation needs to come together to tackle the many challenges we have in dealing with global warming. And when we pass this bill today, it will be one step, one brick in the wall of that effort, for a true clean energy revolution in America that we can all be proud of across the country.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
