Public Statements
With Inslee's help, House committee approves historic climate bill
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 21, 2009
Location: Unknown

Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee approved climate and energy legislation that will implement the first cap on carbon emissions in America's history. The bill included eight amendments and provisions sponsored by U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.) and is anticipated to be voted on by the full House of Representatives this summer.
The American Climate and Energy Security Act (H.R. 2454) passed by a vote of 33-25. Inslee's provisions were crucially important to advancing the legislation and earning it broad support in the full committee.
"This bill will create millions of new clean energy jobs. Since coming to Congress, I have worked tirelessly to harness America's innovative genius to break our country's dependence on foreign oil and make this country the world leader in clean energy technologies," said Inslee. "The passage of this bill, which includes a robust market-based solution to cut carbon pollution and spur innovation, is an historic moment for the Energy and Commerce Committee."
"We're on the way," said Inslee. "The New Apollo Energy Project has launched."
Mr. Inslee is Washington state's only representative on the powerful Energy and Commerce Committee and spent the week in markup hearings to amend and discuss this bill. Inslee has fought for greater environmental protections for years, and this bill is the culmination of years of hard work on his part.
A large number of Inslee's ideas and programs to help the people of Washington state are in the final bill:
Creation of a Clean Energy Bank that will give breakthrough clean energy technologies the financing they need to get to commercial-scale deployment, creating new American innovations and the jobs that will bring consumers new energy options and accelerate the clean energy revolution. This will help Washington's business and technology innovators, including developers exploring promising algae-based biofuels, enhanced geothermal and renewable ocean energy.

"Cash for Clunkers" fleet modernization program will help drivers trade in their old, gas-guzzling cars for newer, fuel-efficient models with an incentive program; consumers save money on gas and car repairs.

Ground-breaking rebate provisions to protect jobs in local energy-intensive industries, such producers of aluminum, steel, and pulp and paper products.

$20 million for a national wood stove changeout program to help families who heat their homes with wood-burning stoves to upgrade to cleaner models; will cut emissions, improve public health and save money for families in rural areas. For example, ninety five percent of the population of the Makah tribal reservation in northwest Washington rely on wood stoves for heat and can benefit from this program. Funding is for five years.

Loan guarantee and grant program for advanced transmission technology, including superconductor technology that would make high-efficiency, underground transmission lines more cost-effective. Local producers of superconductor technology, like Infinia Corporation in Kennewick, could benefit from this provision.

Establishment of the National Bioenergy Partnership, whose Pacific region office will be managed by the Washington State University Energy Program. The NBP will coordinate regional research efforts into bioenergy sources and methods.

A clarification to federal law to ensure that states who wish to pursue feed-in tariffs to promote renewable energy development are not blocked from doing so.

Provision to study and reduce black carbon (soot) emissions, a public health threat and oft-forgotten but significant contributor to global warming.
Committee approval comes on the same day that the EPA held a hearing in Seattle to discuss regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. In a letter read at the hearing, Mr. Inslee thanked the EPA for holding the hearing but explained that Congress' historic action today would take on the problem of greenhouse gasses at the legislative level.
Going forward, Congressman Inslee will be working with state leaders and other members of Washington state's federal delegation to bring a Clean Energy Innovation Center, as created by the bill, to Washington state. Washington state, with its internationally renowned technology sector, is well-positioned to get at least one such research center in our state.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/acesmarkup0509.shtml
