Public Statements
Webcaster Settlement Act Of 2009
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 18, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. INSLEE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to thank Chairman Conyers and my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee for reporting the Webcaster Settlement Act of 2009, a bill I introduced to clear the path for private negotiations to determine the royalty rates for the use of music over Internet radio.
The Copyright Royalty Board (CRB) is a government body tasked with determining royalty rates for the use of music over Internet radio. In 2004, the CRB was tasked with determining a rate structure at the direction of Congress, and released its decision in March of 2007. The rate structure determined by the CRB substantially increased royalty fees that webcasters would be forced to pay.
Since the CRB is authorized to set and establish a royalty rate structure, stakeholders need Congressional authority to forge an agreement that the government would adopt. H.R. 2344 provides that critical authority, and allows private groups 30 days from enactment to work out a settlement amongst themselves to replace the rate structure established by the government.
Webcasters and copyright holders, including those in Washington State, like Washington's 101, WebRadioPugetSound, WildMixRadioÐNetwork.com, and Hollow Earth Radio need this legislation so they have the freedom to negotiate and craft a fair royalty rate structure for all impacted parties. Currently, Internet radio pays 47% of its annual revenue in royalty fees, a rate that will eventually crush the industry.
An estimated 42 million people tune to Internet radio on a weekly basis. Internet radio offers consumers not only entertainment value, but it serves niche markets and allows access to independent labels and artists, diversifying programming. Webcasters in Washington State allow small, local, Northwest bands an opportunity to have their music heard across the country. This bill will allow small webcasters serving those markets to continue to compete and be an outlet for minority voices.
I urge my colleagues to consider this important bill, and to help keep the music playing online.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
