Public Statements
A Clean Energy Future
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 25, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


A Clean Energy Future
Mr. Speaker, I've come to the House today to talk about a bold vision and an act of leadership by President Obama that was again noted last night by President Obama.
In his news conference, he again stated his commitment to lead our country to the adoption of a clean energy future by means of a bill called a cap-and-trade bill, which we're going to talk about this evening, that he believes and I believe and many people believe will be a wellspring and mainspring of our economic transition to a clean energy future for this country.
And I was very pleased to hear him say that last night, because he has not been timid about recognizing the need for economic growth in our country, for job creation growth in our country, for taking on new markets in this country so that we can really rebuild the economy of this country.
And I heard him last night yet again recognizing that we're not going to get our economy back on our feet unless we actually take some action. It's not going to happen just by the tooth fairy.
So last night what he proposed to do is for the Congress, in as bipartisan a way as we possibly can, to adopt a provision that will drive investment into the new companies that can create millions of jobs in our green-collar future in the next decade or two, and he did that by proposing something called a cap-and-trade bill which will essentially limit the amount of dirty pollution industries put in the air and drive investment into the new jobs of the future that can really give us the new, clean technologies and clean energy that can lead us to this new future.
So I come tonight to talk about two things that are fundamental to our ability to realize this vision. The first is, I'd like to discuss tonight some of the companies that are actually realizing this vision.
Now, President Obama wasn't just sort of daydreaming when he said that this is a vision that we Americans are capable of. Some of the companies I will note tonight are on the cusp of creating commercially viable technologies that can create literally millions of new jobs where we can create high-tech components and energy sources and ship them around the world.
So the first thing I'd like to talk about tonight are some of those new technologies that we can build in America. The second thing I'd like to talk about is how we can build a cap-and-trade bill that will assuage some of the concerns.
Now, President Obama knows that this is not an easy setting. When you propose something big, a big idea like this, people get nervous. They get concerned. They want to know the details. And there are concerns tonight about the cap-and-trade bill, and I want to address some of those about how we're going to build jointly a cap-and-trade bill that will work for all the country and all segments of the country. So let me, if I can, first talk about why I believe President Obama's vision is based on optimism but also a really sound sense of realism.
I want to talk about some of the people I've come to know in America who are now engaged in building the jobs of the future. Go to Nevada, where there's a company called Ausra. Two years ago it just had eight people. Now, Ausra has several hundred people working for them.
What the Ausra concentrated solar energy company does, they have figured out a way to use long mirrors to concentrate the sun's energy that heats up a pipe with a liquid in it, some type of oil usually, captures the sun's radiant energy, uses that oil to essentially heat water and turn a steam turbine and generate electricity. And now we have the first manufacturing plant in the United States to build these system of mirrors that can now be arrayed anywhere the sun shines to create energy and electricity with no carbon dioxide, no pollution whatsoever of global warming gases while you're producing that electricity.
Why is this a big deal? It's a big deal because the world is desperate for electricity that we can generate at a commercially viable price that doesn't pollute. Ausra is now manufacturing a plant to do that. They're not the only one.
The Bright Source company is another company that uses what's called concentrated solar energy. They do a similar technology, and they just signed contracts for I think over 2,000 megawatts of concentrated solar energy to provide our grid system.
So here are two companies that are leaders that could potentially create massive new job creation, not only giving us electricity, but as importantly, developing technology that we can sell to the rest of the world.
I met the environmental minister of India this afternoon, and they are desperate for clean energy. Now, President Obama has a vision that I think can come to reality. Ausra and Bright Source make this technology. We build it here, we design it here, and we sell it to India, and we sell it to China, and we sell these products to Korea. This is the vision of economic growth that he recognizes, and I think the country will come to recognize is our best way out of the economic morass we're in.
Go to Boston. In Boston is a company called A123. A123 has developed a lithium ion battery that is capable of producing a plug-in electric car where we can run our cars for 40 miles on nothing but electricity, home-grown, American electricity. Imagine a future where you're generating electricity with solar power, and you're feeding it in at night, you plug your car in at home at night, you unplug it, and you drive to work. It goes 40 miles, which 60 percent of our trips are less than 40 miles a day, on all electricity. You get an infinite miles per gallon of gasoline because you don't use any, at least in your first 40 miles.
Now, A123 battery company is competing with a loan guarantee, again under President Obama's plan, to start the manufacture essentially of this type of component, and this is an extremely important realization by our new President. He realizes that we're going to have electrified cars, and we're going to need advanced batteries to run them, and we want those batteries made in America. We don't want us to be driving cars with electric batteries made in Korea or China. We want to drive cars with batteries made in the United States, and we want to sell those batteries to Chinese car buyers and Korean car buyers. That's a vision we need to pursue.
So we need policies that will drive that investment into the United States, to build these new electric batteries here, not Korea, not China. And why is that important? Well, it's important because if we don't do this, we're going to trade our addiction to Saudi Arabian oil, which we're addicted to now, for an addiction to lithium ion batteries made in Korea or China.
Now, if we don't start taking some action here in Congress, that's the type of fate that our economy would have. Fortunately, we have a President with a plan to, in fact, do this domestically.
So now I will travel West to Michigan to see General Motors, who is getting ready to build the GM Volt, which is a plug-in electric car so that our car manufacturers can start to build this new generation of vehicle, leading the third generation to an all-electric vehicle.
And just to show you that our car manufacturers, even if there's dislocation in the car manufacturing business, I'll tell you about another little company I heard about called Infinia. Infinia is a company in Tri-Cities, Washington. It's in southeast Washington.
They have developed a concentrated solar energy machine. It is called a sterling engine, a sterling engine. It's very old, but they're now figuring out a way to make it commercially viable. Essentially, it uses a pressure differential created by solar thermal energy that drives a piston, and it creates electricity. And the beauty of the Infinia product is that people who have made cars, this is exactly the type of technology to now start making sterling engines because it's essentially automobile technology. It involves a cylinder, a transmission, and people in the auto industry can transition into this new industry.
So here are five companies I've listed that if we adopt the Obama cap-and-trade system and energy plan, we've got a chance to really drive the economic development.
So, I have a few others I thought I might share with you, but we're joined by RON KIND from Wisconsin. He is the leader of the New Democratic Coalition that's invested in pushing ideas about how we really innovate, and I'm glad you've joined me. I wonder if you have some comments.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
