Public Statements
Clean Energy Corps Approved By House
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: March 19, 2009
Location: Unknown



Clean Energy Corps Approved By House
The Clean Energy Corps, a program introduced earlier in March by U.S. Reps. Inslee (D-Wash.) and John Sarbanes (D-Md.), was approved by the House of Representatives as part of H.R. 1388, the Generations Invigorating Volunteerism and Education (GIVE) Act, which passed by a vote of 321-105. The new Clean Energy Corps will give training and skills in the clean energy industry to disadvantaged young Americans while improving the efficiency of low-income housing and other public facilities. Inslee previously introduced the program in a stand-alone bill, H.R. 1394, The Clean Energy Corps Act, which was co-sponsored by Sarbanes.
“This program will engage Americans, especially young Americans, in our nation's clean energy revolution,” said Inslee, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Many people, including President Barack Obama, have noted that we must involve youth in reducing carbon emissions and protecting the environment. This program jumpstarts our work toward that goal.”
The Clean Energy Corps Act will set up training and education programs through grants to non-profit organizations, universities, and state and local governments that can operate clean energy projects in public spaces, create green housing for elderly and low-income people, and weatherize and restore historic structures on public lands, among other things. The Clean Energy Corps program will be formed within the Corporation for National and Community Service, which currently implements similar programs like AmeriCorps, SeniorCorps, and Americorps VISTA.
Inslee's program builds on his efforts from the 110th Congress when he added an amendment to create the Energy Conservation Corps to the Generations Invigorating Volunteerism and Education (GIVE) Act, H.R. 2857. Inslee had since been working with the House Committee on Education and Labor to ensure that the Clean Energy Conservation Corps was included in H.R. 1388, the GIVE Act in the 111th Congress.
It is anticipated that the Senate will consider similar legislation next week and shortly after, the President will sign the GIVE Act to make it law.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/cleanenergycorpshousepassage.shtml
