Public Statements
Washington State Education Advocates Endorse Governor Jay Inslee
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Aug. 1, 2016
Location: Seattle, WA

Today, with just a day left before the August 2nd Primary, five of the biggest education advocacy organizations in the state affirmed their support for Governor Jay Inslee, highlighting his record of accomplishment on education and his vision for a world-class education system that gives every student a chance to succeed.
Governor Inslee worked with both Republicans and Democrats to pass legislation to dramatically improve the education our children receive. Because of his leadership, every child will now have access to all-day kindergarten and lower class sizes in grades K-3. He's made record investments in early learning, and worked with Republicans to make the biggest tuition cut in state history for every student attending public colleges in Washington.

"We support Governor Jay Inslee because he's been a champion for students and teachers in our state," said Chris Korsmo, League of Education Voters. "We appreciate his understanding that education is a continuum, from preschool all the way through college and we believe he has the best vision to improve outcomes for every student in Washington. We are proud to endorse Governor Jay Inslee."

"We're excited to support Gov. Inslee because he understands the importance of fully funding education from birth to graduation--especially early childhood education," said Laura Chandler, Early Childcare Educator, SEIU 925 member. "Gov. Inslee stands with hard-working Washington families like mine, and that's why we're standing with him."

"What I like about this Governor is the open access he provides to his office and to his policy staff," Bernal C Baca, American Federation of Teachers -- WA. "In addition, his passion for ensuring college admission and affordability for our students and the recognition that our students need high quality Instructors that have secure positions with competitive pay. "

"Fully funding public education and resolving McCleary are critical to assuring that all Washington children are set up for success," said Steve Sundquist, Public Education Advocate. "Governor Inslee is the best person to address these issues and make sure every child has access to a high-quality education."

"WEA supports Governor Inslee because he will push the school funding issue so that every student, regardless of ZIP code, will finally receive the public education our Constitution calls for," said Kim Mead, President, Washington Education Association.

"The Public School Employees of Washington SEIU Local 1948 represents over 30,000 classified staff, including paraeducators, secretaries, custodians, bus drivers, child nutrition staff, support personnel, and higher education employees," said Reen Doser, President,
Public School Employees of WA. "We are proud to stand strong with Governor Jay Inslee, who recognizes school support professionals as crucial partners with teachers, parents, and administrators in educating Washington's students."

Source: http://www.jayinslee.com/news/articles/washington-state-education-advocates-endorse-governor-jay-inslee
