Public Statements
Job Creation and Unemployment Relief Act of 2008
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 26, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


JOB CREATION AND UNEMPLOYMENT RELIEF ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support an economic stimulus package that will create American jobs in a growing clean energy economy. Thanks to the advocacy of Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and Chairman John Dingell, Congress authorized an advanced battery loan guarantee program for advanced vehicle batteries and systems--key components to fuel efficient cars--in the United States. I also want to thank my good friends Representatives Steve Israel and Tim Ryan for engaging in the effort to push this program and others like Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Chairman Dave Obey and RAHM EMANUEL for their support in moving forward. Also integral in this achievement are hard-working staff.
As many Americans know, a healthy automobile industry is as American as apple pie. In the transition to a clean energy economy, batteries and advanced electric systems are the key to our future success in this area. Once cars are electrified, batteries will be equivalent to up to 50 percent the total cost of the car. At this time, all of the domestic auto manufacturers plan to purchase batteries that have been produced offshore for their new efficient electric vehicles. However, today, the House will provide funding for a $3.3 billion in loan guarantee program for the domestic construction of facilities that will manufacture advanced vehicle batteries and battery systems. This will enable an American industry to remain competitive in producing advanced lithium ion batteries, hybrid electrical systems, components and software designs.
Loan guarantees provided in this bill will enable several domestic advanced battery manufacturers and advanced vehicle systems companies to grow in a global marketplace. Such companies could include AFS Trinity, of Medina, WA, Enerdel of Indianapolis, IN, Altairnano Battery of Reno, NV, Firefly of Peoria, IL and International Battery of Allentown, PA. There are others that have also developed technology here and we hope that this provision will encourage those companies to open facilities in the United States.
Absent this program, we risk losing the advanced battery industry to Asia when there is no technological reason that America cannot compete in this technology. With this program, we will ensure that America retains green collar jobs in an important industry. We also ensure our companies grow in a global marketplace. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and fund this program.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getpage.cgi?dbname=2008_record&page=H10085&position=all
