Public Statements
Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 16, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


COMPREHENSIVE AMERICAN ENERGY SECURITY AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 16, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, nothing is more apt for Americans than the clean energy revolution that we will start with today's bill. Nothing is more apt for Americans because this bill depends on two very intrinsic American qualities. Those are the qualities of optimism and innovation. And we believe that this bill sets us on a course for innovation that will achieve for clean energy what we achieved in the space race of the 1960s.
And I'd like to share why I'm optimistic about this. This is a picture I took a couple of weeks ago in Golden, Colorado, at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the center of our national effort on renewable energy. It's a picture of a photovoltaic cell. On the other side of this array is a 400-square-foot photovoltaic cell converting sunlight into electricity. That sunlight feeds down into these two cars that are plugged-in electric hybrid cars. This is a term Americans are going to get to know real well. They plug in. They use this solar-based power, and they will go 40 miles with zero gasoline. And then after you go more than 40 miles, they have a gasoline engine to go another 200 or 250 miles.
Here's the stunning fact which they told me at the renewable lab. This panel, which can go on your roof, powers two cars in 8 hours to get that all-electric drive for a full 40 miles.
We are in the midst of a transition. We are on the cusp of a great transition. It reminds me of another transition when we went from typewriters to software, and there were a bunch of optimists out in Redmond, Washington at Microsoft, in my district, that were optimistic about this new transition we were going to get into.
Now, I will tell you this: I've heard some of my Republican friends saying ``drill, baby, drill.'' I think during that transition from typewriters to software, what they would have been saying is ``type, baby, type.''
We know that we have to break our addiction to oil, not to continue it, and this bill is a comprehensive measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. RAHALL. I yield the gentleman 30 more seconds.
Mr. INSLEE. Let's be clear. The Republicans who will vote against this bill today are voting against solar energy for Americans. They are voting against plug-in hybrid technology for Americans. They are voting against enhanced geothermal for Americans. They are voting against more wind energy for Americans. And this idea of drilling as a bridge to these technologies, it's a bridge to nowhere. It won't show up for 15 years.
We need this technology starting today. That's a future America deserves.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getpage.cgi?dbname=2008_record&page=H8227&position=all
