Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of H.R. 6899, Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 16, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 6899, COMPREHENSIVE AMERICAN ENERGY SECURITY AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 16, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. You know, if we were having this debate in the 1800s, someone would be arguing about need to preserve whale oil, because that was the dominant source of energy in the 1800s and they couldn't see the emerging transition to different fuels. And now we have some people in this Chamber who don't understand the transition of fuels for Americans, the only transition that has a chance of breaking our addiction to oil and truly keeping down the price of energy.
I want to show you a transition fuel that is just on the cusp. I met a man named Tony Markel. He works at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colorado, two weeks ago, and he showed me this.
This is a photo-voltaic panel. It is about 400 square feet, and it is plugged into two plug-in electric hybrid cars. These are cars that run on electricity, only electricity, for about 40 miles, and if you want to go further than 40 miles, you use gasoline. This one system, a PV system, can power these two cars for essentially 40 miles, and then you use gasoline if you want to go more than 40 miles.
This bill that the Republicans hate is going to give Americans a step forward to this future, which is the only future, together with some biofuels and perhaps even some other technologies, that can break the stranglehold of the oil and gas industry over the American consumer. And it is clear to me from people at Boeing, who revolutionized commercial aircraft; from people at Microsoft, who revolutionized software, that now is a chance for Americans to revolutionize the world of new clean energy.
We know that we need innovation, not intransigence. We need invention, not insignificance. And we know we can't drill our way out of this problem. But we can, we must, and we will innovate our way to a clean energy future. This is a destiny of ours. It is a clean energy destiny.
In addition, I would like to add that Tony Markel is an employee of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. NREL is a national laboratory that provides great data and research on energy efficiency and renewable energy; however, NREL does not generally have a position on pending legislation, nor does it have a position on this bill, H.R. 6899.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getpage.cgi?dbname=2008_record&page=H8164&position=all
