Public Statements
Inslee Helps Colleges Go Green
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Aug. 14, 2008
Location: Unknown


Inslee helps colleges go green
Today, President George W. Bush signed into law the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008, legislation aimed at making college education more affordable and accessible for American students. The bill included a key provision authored by U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.) to improve education grants by allowing priority for colleges with high environmental standards. Also thanks to Inslee's efforts, Sustainability Planning Grants can now fund programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which will slow climate change.
"Promoting green colleges is a smart investment," said Inslee, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. "Green buildings on campuses have been shown to improve the student experience and will help shape the next generation of Americans who are bringing the clean-energy revolution to fruition."
Inslee strengthened language in the bill to allow Sustainability Planning Grants to fund programs in "greenhouse gas emissions reductions," which will have an impact on climate change. Previously, the funds could only go toward "energy management," which would not have an effect on global warming.
Inslee's amendment would also allow the Secretary of Education to give priority under the Funds for the Improvement for Post Secondary Education (FIPSE) program to institutions of higher education that meet or exceed energy-efficiency standards set by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) in new construction. This federal education grant program supports projects that encourage innovative reform and expand education opportunities to underrepresented groups.
"Many of our nation's 4,000 colleges and universities are taking action to reduce greenhouse-gas pollution, which currently accounts for 7 percent of U.S. carbon emissions," added Inslee, co-author of a book released last fall entitled "Apollo's Fire: Igniting America's Clean Energy Economy." "Federal grants should be available to give a boost to such projects like the state-of-the-art, carbon-neutral science laboratory being planned at Cascadia Community College in my district."
Inslee's amendment had the support of ASHRAE, The Coalition of Higher Education Assistance Organization, The American Institute of Architects, Polyisocyanurate Insulation Manufacturers Association, and National Fire Protection Association.
The bill that Inslee's provision amends, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act, won approval in the House in July by a vote of 380-49. It was passed unanimously out of the House Committee on Education and Labor in December.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/higheredbill.shtml
