Public Statements
Bill Would Elevate Status of Local Scenic Waterways
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Aug. 1, 2008
Location: Unknown


Bill would elevate status of local scenic waterways
U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.) yesterday introduced legislation along with Puget Sound area Congressmen Norm Dicks, Rick Larsen, Jim McDermott, and Adam Smith aimed at upgrading the federal designation of some of western Washington's most scenic waterways. Specifically, the bill would direct the Interior Department's National Park Service (NPS) to study if the Cascadia Marine Trail, which extends as far north as the San Juan Islands and as far south as Olympia (see attached map), would be suitable for federal national scenic trail designation.
"Puget Sound is a national treasure both for its recreational opportunities and natural resources," said Inslee, an avid kayaker and resident of Bainbridge Island, Wash., who serves on the House panel with jurisdiction over the Department of the Interior. "This designation would help ensure that generation after generation of Americans can enjoy the history and culture of these waterways."
The Cascadia Marine Trail is a series of recreational boating routes and shoreline campgrounds on Puget Sound that were designated by the federal government as a recreational trail in 1994 for use with small, wind- or human-powered watercraft. In 1999, President Bill Clinton also bestowed upon it National Millennium Trail status, marking it as one of the 16 best long-distance trails in the nation that are representative of U.S. culture and history.
The elevated national scenic trail designation could mean more federal funds, additional protections and increased public awareness. It would make the Cascadia Marine Trail the first scenic trail mapped entirely through water.
Inslee's bill, H.R. 6740, would require NPS to assess whether the Cascadia Marine Trail merits national scenic trail designation. The NPS would have no more than two years after enactment to make recommendations to Congress, which then could be codified into law with additional legislation.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/watertrails.shtml
