Public Statements
Nation Needs New Apollo Project
Op-Ed
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 21, 2008
Location: Unknown


Nation needs New Apollo Project
With oil prices reaching new highs almost daily, it's clear we need a national commitment to solving our energy crisis. The solution is a New Apollo Project — a bold, optimistic and truly comprehensive plan that would harness the innovative spirit of Americans to break our addiction to oil by transitioning our economy from fossil fuels to clean-energy technologies.
Such a plan exists. I and others have been working on it since the beginning of this decade. In 2002, I made the case for a New Apollo Project with an opinion piece in the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. Arguments made then still are relevant today:
"No single national endeavor has such capacity to expand our economy by tapping our innate and unique technological genius for innovation. No single national priority is so critical to reduce the risks from impending man-made climate change. No single non-military action can be as effective in avoiding the security challenges that haunt us due to our addiction to Mideast oil.
"This national endeavor needs a name. It needs a name invested with the historical imagery of American innovation and sense of destiny. We should call it ‘the New Apollo Project.' What the nation achieved in building the technologies that took us to the moon now can be matched by technologies that keep our launching pad, Earth, in healthy condition."
It's appropriate that we call it a New Apollo Project — as opposed to a New Manhattan or other project — because our endeavor to bring a clean-energy revolution to fruition matches the positive, hopeful vision of the original Apollo Project. The New Apollo Project is premised on the same belief we had in the 1960s that Americans have the creative genius and can-do spirit to come out on top — this time in the race to develop clean-energy technologies and solve global warming. It's focused on what Americans are capable of doing to advance national and global interests, without the moral conundrums associated with the race to develop the first atomic bomb.

Source:
