Public Statements
Washington State's Law Enforcement Community Endorses Governor Jay Inslee
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 29, 2016
Location: Unknown

Today, three of the state's major law enforcement organizations endorsed Governor Jay Inslee, citing his strong record on public safety. The Washington Council of Police and Sheriffs, the Washington State Patrol Troopers Association and the Council of Metropolitan Police and Sheriffs, which represents King County Sheriffs, the Seattle Police Management Association, King County Sheriffs Management, and the Seattle Police Officers, all gave their sole endorsement to the Governor. All three organizations endorsed Republican Rob McKenna four years ago in his run for governor against Inslee.
"Jay Inslee is the only choice for the law enforcement community this year," said Renee Maher, Executive Director of the Council of Metropolitan Police and Sheriffs (COMPAS). "He has stood up for our members and has proven to be a strong leader with a level-headed approach in times of crisis. We are proud to support his reelection."
"The WSP Troopers Association comprised of troopers from every corner of the state strongly endorse Governor Inslee's re-election efforts," said Jeff Merrill, Washington State Patrol Troopers Association. "When the citizens of our state were placed in jeopardy by a severe shortage of troopers, Gov Inslee took on the issue and resolved the problem. We have witnessed Gov. Inslee's unending commitment to the health and safety of the citizens of this state and the employees we represent and we look forward to another 4 years of his leadership!"
"Governor Inslee's support of law enforcement officers and work to assure they have the necessary training, investments, and coordination of resources is the leadership needed to ensure we have safer communities," said Craig Bulkley, President of the Washington Council of Police and Sheriffs.
"I'm proud to have the support of Washington's law enforcement community," said Governor Jay Inslee. "They put their lives on the line to protect and to serve us, and they deserve our commitment to providing them the support, training and resources they need to keep our communities safe."

Source: http://www.jayinslee.com/news/articles/washington-states-law-enforcement-community-endorses-governor-jay-inslee
