Public Statements
Federal Ocean Acidification Research and Monitoring Act of 2008
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 9, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


FEDERAL OCEAN ACIDIFICATION RESEARCH AND MONITORING ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, ocean acidification is both the most disturbing and potentially the most unifying issue involving carbon dioxide and climate change. It is the most disturbing because nothing that I have heard in the last couple of years about this phenomenon disproves the point of that old saying from the 1960s that was in an old commercial ``It's not nice to fool with Mother Nature.'' And we have found that when we put one-third of all the carbon dioxide coming out of our tailpipes and our coal plants, that that has made the oceans, just since the industrial revolution, 30 percent more acidic, and all the time the world has been around, it is 30 percent more acidic just during the time we've been burning coal and oil.
The results of that are not hypothetical. We had testimony in Seattle from biologists and oceanographers a couple months ago that said they actually put a shell into water that was as acidic as it could be in the next century and a half and you could see it literally melt. You are looking at literally melting of any living stuff in the oceans that form a calcium carbonate material, including the phytoplankton that is 40 percent of the bottom of the food chain, in the next century or two if we don't change course. That's why it's disturbing.
But here is why it's unifying: It's unifying because while we have had some debates about the climatic effects about global warming and CO
2, there is no debate about ocean acidification. We could spent the next century arguing about the precise climatic effects of CO
2, but there is no debate that we are making the oceans unfit for life that God himself or herself designed on the planet Earth. And that is what we are doing. And I am hopeful that that can be a unifying idea in this Congress so that we can start to develop a clean energy future for the country and the world that can preserve the oceans for living species that we depend on as well as the rest of the world.
So it is disturbing now. Hopefully, it will be unifying when we get together and really do an Apollo new energy project and save the oceans for what they were designed for, which is life on this planet.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
