Public Statements
Washington Conservation Voters and Sierra Club Support Governor Jay Inslee
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

Today, in the week leading up to the primary, Washington Conservation Voters and Sierra Club affirmed their support for Governor Jay Inslee, citing his longstanding commitment to fighting climate change and creating jobs in a new clean-energy economy.
"The governor's race is our number one priority for 2016," said Joan Crooks, CEO of Washington Conservation Voters. "Re-electing Governor Inslee will ensure that Washingtonians have a strong environmental advocate championing climate action at all levels of government."
"Jay Inslee has been a leader and champion for protecting Washington's environment and for addressing the challenge of climate change. Sierra Club has worked with him for many years and knows that his values for protecting our environment are longstanding and deeply rooted in his experiences and love of the state and our wonderful outdoors," said Ken Gersten, leader of Sierra Club's state-wide election work. "Bill Bryant will not be the leader that Jay Inslee has been. Now more than ever we need someone like Jay Inslee in the Governor's office who will lead the transition to a clean energy economy and fight back against deniers working on behalf of the most powerful special interests."
"Climate change is taking its toll on Washington state right now -- record wildfires, ocean acidification, diseased forests, and low snowpack, and we can't wait for a Republican House to act. We need to do so now," said Governor Jay Inslee. "While we are on the front lines of the impacts of climate change, we are also on the front lines of the innovation to respond to it. We have a clean, green economy growing in Washington state, and as governor, I will do all that I can to transition our economy off fossil fuels, reduce carbon pollution and create good, clean energy jobs."
Inslee's opponent, Republican Bill Bryant, has criticized Governor Inslee for taking steps to reduce carbon pollution, saying fighting climate change should not be a "priority of the governor."
Today, Governor Inslee talked to MSNBC's Chris Hayes about the work he is doing in Washington to reduce carbon pollution and create jobs.

Source: http://www.jayinslee.com/news/articles/washington-conservation-voters-and-sierra-club-support-governor-jay-inslee
