Public Statements
Polar Bear Decision Rife with Flaws
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 23, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Polar bear decision rife with flaws
May 23, 2008
After months of delay, last week the Bush administration finally acknowledged that melting sea ice is pushing polar bears to the brink of extinction. The listing of polar bears under the Endangered Species Act marks a turning point. We no longer can deny the impact climate change is having on wildlife and our world. But placing the polar bear on the endangered species list is just the tip of the iceberg.
Upon close examination, the administration's decision is riddled with loopholes and caveats that leave the polar bear in the same precarious situation as before. Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne says that the listing will not be used "to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles, power plants, and other sources" -- despite that fact that those are the very forces that have placed the animal in jeopardy.
The Bush administration has dragged its feet at every step in the listing process, conveniently paving the way for destructive oil drilling in key polar bear habitat off the coast of Alaska.
In January, the Fish and Wildlife Service announced that it would miss its final legal deadline for making a listing recommendation. No reasonable explanation was given for the holdup. But the delay did provide just enough time to open polar bear habitat to oil drilling. On Feb. 6, the federal government auctioned off rights to drill in the Chukchi Sea, one of America's two Polar Bear Seas, where an estimated one-tenth of the animal's population lives.
Now, Kempthorne is bending over backward to reassure the oil industry that the listing will not prevent drilling in prime polar bear habitat. The administration says it will continue to develop these resources in "an environmentally sound way."
The truth is, there is no environmentally sound way to drill for oil in the Polar Bear Seas. Pipelines, boat traffic, drilling platforms, and ice-breaking vessels are just a few of the risks that come with oil development. Drilling also brings seismic blasting -- a process one scientist referred to as "the most severe acoustic insult to the marine environment, short of naval warfare."
And then there is the threat of oil spills. The oil industry's record with spills is not good, and even the Interior Department admits there could be more than a 50-50 chance of a major spill in the area. If a spill did occur, it would be disastrous. There is no proven method for cleaning up oil in the Arctic's broken sea ice, and once a bear makes contact with even a small amount of oil, it loses its ability to insulate and can die of hypothermia and ingestion.
Listing the polar bear as threatened and then sending oil drills into its home is like diagnosing a patient with lung cancer and then handing him a lit cigarette.
Drilling polar bear habitat will do nothing to ease pain at the pump for average Americans because it doesn't decrease global demand for fossil fuels. It will only help fill the oil industry's already-fat coffers. Just this month, three of the biggest oil companies reported record-breaking quarterly profits in excess of $27 million. We don't need to further jeopardize our polar bears just so they can make more money.
We already have the technology we need to stop our oil addiction, combat global warming, and breathe new life into our economy by creating green jobs and industry. If we turn to clean energy sooner rather than later, we can leave our grandchildren a world where polar bears don't just live in zoos.
Jay Inslee represents Washington's 1st Congressional District in the U.S. House. Carl Pope is executive director of the Sierra Club.

Source: http://admin.votesmart.org/admin/updateCandidateSpeechDetail.do
