Public Statements
Five Reasons Why the Air Force's Decision to Award Airbus a Contract Does Not Add Up
By: Jay Inslee
Date: May 15, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


FIVE REASONS WHY THE AIR FORCE'S DECISION TO AWARD AIRBUS A CONTRACT DOES NOT ADD UP -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2008)
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a previous order of the House, the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, before I start, I want to express my honor for the gentleman from Colorado in the chair today, who did extraordinary work in leading the Congress to green building standards and the introduction of a bill today, and I appreciate his leadership on this. Thank you for leading on this issue.
I come to the floor today to address my concerns about this misbegotten decision by the U.S. Air Force to ignore great work by Americans with a consortium building the Boeing 767 aerial refueling tanker, in fact, sending American tax dollars and American jobs out to Europe. And I want to express the five reasons why this decision does not add up.
There is a particular odor about this decision. It needs to be revisited one way or another. We need to have an American tanker built by American workers to be fair to American service personnel and taxpayers both, and I want to go through the five reasons why this decision does not add up.
Reason number one: There is no sense on this green Earth why the American Government has sued the Airbus Corporation, asserting that they have violated international trade laws because they received illegal billion dollar subsidies, and at the same time another agency of the Federal Government, the Air Force, turns around and gives that same corporation that our own government has declared is acting illegally contrary to international and American law--turns around and gives them a $40 billion contract. It is most unfortunate that at least one person in the other Chamber specifically said that we can't take into consideration these subsidies. It is absolutely ludicrous for the American Government to sue this company in one court, saying they violated law, and then turn around and give them $40 billion. That's exactly what has happened here. It makes no sense. This does not add up.
Reason number two: Boeing has been building these tankers successfully, hundreds of tankers, without difficulty. And instead of going with a proven, tried and true American contractor, the Air Force has decided to accept the risk of a company that's never made an aerial tanker, building it in a way that it has never been built, in factories that do not exist, in multiple countries with a supply chain that has never been proven. We cannot and should not tolerate that risk of this risky decision.
Reason number three that this does not add up: It does not add up because all estimates have concluded that the Boeing 767 is 24 percent more fuel efficient overall, looking at all the emission statements, 24 percent more fuel efficient. Well, for anyone who has gone to the pump recently, let me suggest that it doesn't make sense to be buying a product that is a gas guzzler when we know that fuel prices are going only in one direction. A study performed by the Conklin & de Decker analyst company concluded that by going with Boeing instead of this Airbus monstrosity, we would save the American taxpayers $30 billion in fuel costs. At the same time when we're trying to wring efficiencies to deal with global warming and reduce fuel costs, this decision is buying the gas guzzler rather than the fuel-efficient aircraft. This does not add up.
Reason number four: The Air Force basically decided bigger is better. Bigger is not always better. They said they told Boeing and Airbus that they wanted a medium-size plane. Boeing provided them a medium-size plane. In the middle of this process, they decided they wanted a bigger airplane. Bigger is not always better, and I will tell you why. It's going to cost the American taxpayers over $2 billion to remodel all of these hangars all across America to try to fit this large airplane in. This is real money from real taxpayers that was not considered in the lifecycle costs. It does not add up.
And the fifth reason is lifecycle costs. The Air Force, what they did was they looked at original acquisition costs and downplayed the lifecycle costs associated with fuel costs, maintenance costs, hangar remodeling, and all the other things associated with these airplanes. When you make an acquisition for the American taxpayers, you need to look at the entire lifecycle costs, not just the upfront acquisition costs. It does not add up.
So here are five reasons that this Congress ought to get up on our hind legs and blow the whistle on this misbegotten decision. It doesn't add up. We need to change this decision.

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
