Public Statements
Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 29, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


CONSOLIDATED NATURAL RESOURCES ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I would like to commend this bill for two reasons.
First, the passage of the Bainbridge Island Japanese American Monument Act. It is long overdue. We will finally present a monument to a chapter in American history that should never be a occasioned again. On March 30, 1942, on Bainbridge Island, Washington, the island where I live, the United States Army rounded up 227 people living on Bainbridge Island, put them on a ferry boat, shipped them by trains to a camp in Manzanar for the duration of the war, totally without legality. And 62 of those people subsequently served in World War II.
Two years ago a 95-year-old woman, Fumiko Hayashida, came to Congress and testified about the pain that episode caused her and all of America. And this dedication of a monument on Bainbridge Island will serve as a monument to all Americans of all future generations that we should never ever allow the power of fear to overcome the promise of liberty. This monument will serve to do that.
I want to thank the great work of people on Bainbridge Island: Fumiko Hayashida, Frank Kitamoto, Clarence Moriwaki; Senator Cantwell and others who worked on this bill. And I invite all Americans to come see this monument when it's completed.
I would also like to congratulate my colleague Rick Larsen and Senator Murray for their incredible work, who really set the model of how to do wilderness legislation in finally today passing the Wild Sky Wilderness. I sat on top of Berry Mountain a couple years ago and looked down, and I want to thank them for their great leadership so that my grandchild will be able to look down from the top of Berry Mountain and see the same wilderness; and to their allies, Tom Uniack, Mike Towns, and Jon Owen, all of who really created a model of how to do future wildernesses. Thank you very much, Rick and others, and I congratulate all of us for final passage of these great pieces of work.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
