Public Statements
Key Cancer Group Backs Inslee Biosimilar-Drug Bill
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 23, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Key cancer group backs Inslee biosimilar-drug bill
Candlelighters deliver petition with thousands of signatures
The Candlelighters Childhood Cancer Foundation (CCCF) delivered U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.) a petition with almost 5,000 signatures of parents and families of children with cancer in support of his legislation aimed at creating a pathway for the production of less expensive biotech medicines. It was presented by CCCF Executive Director Ruth Hoffman as part of the non-profit group's Cancer Control Month activities.
Inslee's bill, the Patient Protection and Innovative Biologic Medicines Act, H.R. 1956, would create an abbreviated process for the approval of potentially less expensive follow-on biologics, also known as biosimilar or biogeneric medicines, while assuring patient safety and promoting innovation. These complex drugs, made from living cell lines, commonly are used to treat serious conditions like cancer, diabetes and neurological disease.
"Families of children with cancer know the importance of preserving a culture of innovation and encouraging progress in medical research," said Inslee, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee who hails from the high-tech 1st Congressional District in Washington state. "It speaks volumes that Candlelighters support my bill."
"While saving costs is a laudable goal, for child cancer patients and their families, we must put the search for new cures first," Hoffman said when she presented Inslee the petition this morning. "We commend Representative Inslee for his leadership on this issue - he is a true advocate for patients. That is why nearly 5,000 of our supporters have signed this petition to Congress to support his legislation, the Patient Protection and Innovative Medicines Act."
Inslee filed his legislation one year ago, along with co-sponsors Gene Green (D-Texas) and Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.). Today, the bill has a total of 16 co-sponsors.
Because the legislation addresses both concerns about protecting patient safety through clinical trials and preserving an environment that encourages the development of innovative life-saving new therapies, other groups also have expressed support for H.R. 1956. They include the ALS Association, the Coalition of State Rheumatology Organizations, and the Alliance of Specialty Medicine, which represents 14 medical specialties.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/wa01_inslee/candlelighterspetition.shtml
