Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of H.R. 5819, SBIR/STTR Reauthorization Act
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 23, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5819, SBIR/STTR REAUTHORIZATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 23, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I just had a meeting I think is relevant to this conversation. I just met with the leaders of the Phoenix Motor Car Company of Ontario, California. They hope to bring out an all-electric car that will go 120 miles on one charge. You can charge your car for $3 and not use a drop of gasoline.
Now they could use a little assistance from Uncle Sam to bring these products to market as quickly as possible, and we on this side of the aisle proposed some bills to do that because we wanted to take the 21 billions of dollars that this side of the aisle wants to give to the oil and gas companies in tax breaks and give those tax breaks to consumers and companies so that we can get all-electric cars, so we can break our addiction to Middle Eastern oil. That is a solution. You want solutions? You can't handle solutions. We gave you a solution: Let's get electric cars on the road. We have a bill to do that. And if we can get some help there from the other side of the aisle, then the President will make this happen.
I will give you another company, the Astro Solar Energy Company. They can produce electricity just by solar thermal power. We wanted to give them some help to do that, this side of the aisle blocked it because they wanted to help some friends in the oil and gas industry.
So those are the long-term solutions. But I wanted to mention a short-term solution. Tell me why on this green earth we do not have the oil and gas industry futures market protected and governed by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission? We want them to put them under the regulation of that, have transparency. We regulate the orange, wheat, and soybean futures market; this market ought to be regulated as well. This side of the aisle stands to do that; 36 Democrats are on the bill to do that, Mr. Stupak's bill. We have only got two Republicans. We welcome Republicans to get in the solutions business. Help us pass this bill.

Source:
