Public Statements
Beach Protection Act of 2007
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 16, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


BEACH PROTECTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of an amendment I'm offering with Mr. Van Hollen. The amendment is quite simple. It will simply direct the EPA to report to Congress on how to mitigate the effects of climate change on recreation at our Nation's beaches.
I'm particularly partial to islands and beaches. I live in one, Bainbridge Island, Washington. It's a great place.
And like others, I'm concerned about the impact of global climate change on rising sea levels that can impact the quality of our beaches. And we need to get to the bottom of what those impacts will be so that we can help local communities respond to rising beaches.
Scientists have agreed that sea level is already rising across our coast. In my neck of the woods, the University of Washington Climate Impacts Group has predicted that sea levels in Puget Sound could rise by as much as 50 inches by 2100. This could have a $1 billion impact on waterfront investment.
Rising sea levels intensify flooding, we know. They intensify storms and the erosion associated with them. And they can impact the water quality of our Nation's beaches as they impact sewage disposal systems.
Already, under BEACH Act programs, the EPA does collaborate with government agencies to predict where and when this pollution can occur. My amendment simply directs the EPA to report to Congress on how climate change may exacerbate those problems.
We know how important recreation is on our beaches. In fact, beaches are the leading tourist destination. I was surprised to learn 85 percent of all U.S. tourism is associated with beaches.
[Page: H2422]
They contribute over $700 billion each year to the GDP, and that's not just the Beach Boys.
In 2006, recreation brought in $948 million, just the Olympic and Kitsap Peninsulas where I live. So knowing about the problems we're going to have with climate change locally is a boost. You don't have to live on an island or near a beach to recognize that.
I want to thank the Chair, Mr. Pallone, and the Chair for their help in drafting and accepting this amendment. And I hope you'll join me in supporting a very commonsense measure to help respond to these problems we know we're going to have. And I hope we can prevent them. But we're going to have some of them no matter what we do.
I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
