Public Statements
National Landscape Conservation System Act
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 9, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


NATIONAL LANDSCAPE CONSERVATION SYSTEM ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 09, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. I rise in support of Mr. Grijalva's bill. I really applaud his leadership on this. It is long overdue.
This bill really takes care of the landscape conservation treasures that
we have come to enjoy. It protects 26 million acres of BLM's most exceptional landscapes. And to put it in perspective, that is a lot of territory, but it is only 10 percent of the BLM-managed areas. It is a very reasonable thing for us to do. And the reason is that it protects the heritage, the ancient Native American sites, pioneer ranches and pioneer homesteads. I am a fellow of the West. I enjoy looking at them. It preserves historic trails, rugged and remote mountains, deserts, prairies and rivers. These are the jewels in the crown of the BLM-managed property, and all Americans have a stake in them.
When you think about how expansive this is, there is something for everybody in America in this bill, those who like to raft, to hunt, to sightsee, to fish, to hike, to study, to bird-watch or to just hang around with their kids. This is an all-purpose bill. And it is a lot of places: Colorado's Canyons of the Ancients National Monument the Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail, Idaho's Craters of the Moon National Monument, California's Headwaters Forest Preserve, Nevada's Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area, Montana's Upper Missouri River Breaks National Monument, Utah's Beaver Dam Mountain Wilderness Area, Oregon's Lower Deschutes Wild and Scenic River, and my kind of favorite, the Pacific Crest and Continental Divide National Trail System, a trail system that is in trouble and this bill can help preserve.
So this really is a universal bill. And I want to point out something that is kind of uniquely American. These systems really rely on volunteers to keep them healthy. And I want to commend the thousands of volunteers who spend their weekends working on these trails providing interpretive services. Thank you to all of you who are doing this. This bill will help them to have a more organized system, and I think it is a real economically sound thing to do.
The Bush administration has indicated its support for this bill. It's straightforward codifying legislation. As a member of the Resources Committee, I want to applaud Mr. Grijalva and all of those Americans who are going to take their kids out to these places and have a grand time. Congratulations on passing this bill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
