Public Statements
Calling on the Government of China to End its Crackdown in Tibet
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 8, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


CALLING ON THE GOVERNMENT OF CHINA TO END ITS CRACKDOWN IN TIBET -- (House of Representatives - April 08, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Madam Speaker, due to the leadership of Nancy Pelosi, we were able to experience a profound and moving time in Dharamsala, India, 2 weeks ago, and it was profound for two reasons. One, when you talk to a Buddhist monk who has walked for 5 days through the Himalayan mountains to escape suppression and obtain some modicum of religious liberty, it would move the hardest of hearts. And we talked to monks who had that experience, monks who couldn't even show a little medallion with a picture of the Dalai Lama on their chest without having to go to jail in Tibet under the control of the Chinese Government. It was profound in that sense, but it was profound in meeting the Dalai Lama, as well, a person of great humor, great grace, great courage and great nonviolence. And he has asked for an investigation of what has gone on in Tibet, to quash what the Chinese Government has been saying about him, saying that he has instigated this violence. Anyone who makes that claim couldn't distinguish between Mahatma Gandhi and Che Guevara.
And I take great umbrage at this assertion that somehow he has been the reason for violence. His position has been reasonable. He has asked for a dialogue with the Chinese Government. He has asked for an investigation to what happened in Tibet. He has not called for a boycott of the Olympics, an extremely reasonable position given what his people have undergone.
His aspirations for China I think should be the world's, that as China grows into a great economic power, let it seek to be a great power in the sense of morality and humanity. My district has a growing relationship with China selling jets, software and agricultural products. And we like to see the economic potential of China. But that has to be married, to become a great nation, with a commitment to humanity, morality and religious freedom. This is consistent not only with America's core values, but international values in the Olympic spirit. We hope we move in that direction.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
