Public Statements
Providing for Further Consideration of H.R. 5351, Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 27, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5351, RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION TAX ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, it is not day 11 of FISA. We have passed FISA. It is day 2,593 of the Bush administration that has allowed us to remain addicted to oil, has allowed the price of gas to be doubled during his administration, and has allowed us to continue on a course of being insecure because we are wrapped around the axle of oil because of these tax subsidies. It is time to turn course.
This side of the aisle believes the status quo in energy is acceptable. We don't think that's good enough. We believe that Americans are smart enough, creative enough, and innovative enough to launch a new Apollo Project in energy so that we can do for energy what Kennedy did for space, and this bill is step one in that regard.
All over this country Americans are inventing a new energy future for us: the OSPRA solar energy company in Florida with clean solar thermal power; the Nanosolar Company that made the first commercial sale of thin cell photovoltaics last month; the Imperium Company in my State of Washington with biodiesel that powered the first jet airliner flight with biodiesel with Virgin Air last weekend; the Altarock Company, the first enhanced geothermal company now growing in the State of Washington; the Janicki Company, which is opening up a new wind turbine blade construction project.
We essentially are ready to launch a rocket of clean energy innovation in this country. But this side of the aisle and my friends, unfortunately, have put a hold on the countdown, and we're about 2 seconds away to really having a burst of economic growth in this country. But they are allowing these tax breaks to expire, which are strangling the birth of these new industries.
In the last several weeks I've got scores of phone calls from people all over the country ready for these new companies to start. But they're strangling them. We've got to keep this growth going. Launch a clean energy revolution.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
