Public Statements
College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2007
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 7, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


COLLEGE OPPORTUNITY AND AFFORDABILITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, due to unexpected circumstances, I missed the vote on the College Opportunity and Affordability Act, H.R. 4137, important legislation to reauthorize and strengthen key Higher Education Act programs aimed at making college education more affordable and accessible for American students. Had I been present, I would have voted in favor of the legislation that will keep America's economy competitive.
Overall, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act will address major issues facing our Nation's students from simplifying student aid forms to addressing rising textbook and tuition costs. The bill will increase assistance for Veterans and military families and bolster students' interest in science and technology by partnering with businesses and other stakeholders.
I commend Chairman MILLER and HINOJOSA for their diligent work on the underlying legislation and for their support for my amendment that was passed to improve key education grants by setting higher environmental standards for recipients. The amendment ensures that Sustainability Planning Grants are awarded to projects aiming to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, guaranteeing that Federal funds make a meaningful impact on global warming and requires that certain Federal grantees demonstrate that they meet or exceed American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, ASHRAE, energy-efficiency standards when designing new facilities. Finally, the amendment would add a Sense of Congress to reject the President's FY2009 budget proposal to eliminate the important Perkins Loan Program, a critical educational program for high-need students who will become a modern green workforce.
Additionally, I applaud Representatives BLUMENAUER and EHLERS for their work to include provisions to support green higher education efforts. Many of our Nation's 4,000 colleges and universities are taking action to reduce greenhouse-gas pollution, which currently accounts for 7 percent of U.S. carbon emissions. Federal grants should be available to give a boost to such projects, like the state-of-the-art, carbon-neutral science laboratory being planned at Cascadia Community College in my district.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
