Public Statements
Hearing of the House Select Energy Independence and Global Warming Committee - Learning From a Laureate: Science, Security and Sustainability
Interview
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Jan. 30, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

Hearing of the House Select Energy Independence and Global Warming Committee: Learning From a Laureate - Science, Security and Sustainability
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. JAY INSLEE (D-WA): Thank you.
This is a tremendous honor for us in the House today to have Dr. Pachauri here, because I really believe that you couldn't have any of the several billion folks on the planet to be in a more important position than Dr. Pachauri. And it's a great honor that he's joined us today.
There really is no one else walking on the face of the earth that have played a bigger role in preventing the Arctic eventually from disappearing, from preventing the desertification of substantial parts of the middle latitudes, from preventing us from losing a good portion of our Midwest agricultural base, from preventing millions from losing drinking water from the glaciers in the Himalayas, and from preventing the conflicts that my friend Ed Markey has talked about.
And so it's really a great honor that you've joined us, because in spreading this news, it is allowing us to move. And Dr. Pachauri and I had a chance to talk briefly before this hearing, and I just want to share one thing with the good doctor, who I know may have had some frustration with the rest of the world at the United States' inability to move on global warming. And given the certainty in the science, that has been frustrating. But the cavalry is on the way. Things are changing here. The ice is melting in the Arctic, but the ice of resistance to science is melting here in the United States Congress as well, and we are going to get this job done.
I will be particularly attentive to Dr. Pachauri's discussion of what our targets need to be to prevent these devastating losses. Looking at the report, it suggests that to have a 50 percent chance of stabilizing temperature increases below 2.5 degrees Celsius above pre- industrial levels would require that global emissions peak by the year 2015 and reduce -- industrialized countries, including the United States, would have to decrease to 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020.
That is an incredibly important target. I'll look forward to his discussion of why that is important, because the United States Congress will be setting targets, we hope, this year. We need to be more aggressive on those targets. To date, Doctor, I regret to say no legislation has been introduced to achieve those targets. That's going to change shortly. And I hope that you will address the importance of those near-term targets to really tame this beast.
Thank you very much.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. JAY INSLEE (D-WA): Doctor, thank you for closing with a quote from Chief Seattle about us being part of the weft of life. We appreciate that. I can tell you the chief's spirit is still alive in Seattle, and that's where we're fighting to keep our snow, and our salmon and our Orcas, all of which are endangered by this problem. So I really appreciate you honoring us with Chief Seattle. I hope you spread it around the globe. I think it works everywhere around the planet.
I want to focus on what should be our relatively short-term targets. And I have to tell you that I have been very active on this front now, with many members of this panel, but I have been stunned by your science that your team has developed on the level of how fast we have to move. You know, several years ago I was thinking, well, we have to get ready for 2050. Your science has been a real dash of cold water telling us, no, we've got to get ready by 2015 and 2020. And I want to ask you for your advice in that regard.
Now first off, I want to talk about the level that might get us into problems. And I was looking at your report, and it suggested that at a 2.5 Celsius level, if we are successful at holding the increase at -- to 2.5 degrees Celsius, that still will result in a significant risk of extinction of 20 (percent) to 30 percent of all the species on the planet. So somewhere approaching a fifth to a third of all the species on the planet could be gone forever if we hold it at 2.5 degrees Celsius. Now to me, that ought to be an absolute minimalist goal because we're still going to have significant loss to the planet at that level.
I then go down to the next several pages of your report and you are telling us that to hold the world at that level, we have got to peak CO2 emissions by 2015, and the industrialized world, including America, has to go down by 25 (percent) to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 -- 20 (percent) to 40 percent reductions below our 1990 levels by 2020. Now the reason I want you to address this target is that that level, which to me is absolutely minimal -- we ought to be more aggressive than that as our target because losing more than a third of our species, to me, is incomprehensible. And yet I must tell you that no bill to date has been introduced in the U.S. Congress to come anywhere close to those target levels, including ones that I have introduced. And that's going to change. We are going to be introducing legislation to get to closer to those targets.
But I think your visit here today could be a real eye-opener to my colleagues about why that short-term -- and we're all talking about 2050 -- why that short-term target is so important and why it has to be more aggressive than, frankly, anything we're talking about. We've got a bill to have a level of 1990 levels by 2020 that's moved through the Senate Committee, and frankly from your scientific testimony that appears wholly inadequate to the task at hand. So I guess if you could just elaborate on those levels and the 2020 targets we should be thinking of as industrialized countries.
MR. PACHAURI: Thank you for that comment and question, sir.
May I submit that the issue of deciding where the world should stabilize the increase of temperatures and therefore of concentration levels really involves a value judgment. And I think an issue that is often ignored is the whole equity dimension of this problem. Everyone talks to somebody -- let's say on the Maldives Islands. And the President of the Maldives, in fact, is coming over to a major event next week to New Delhi that I'm organizing. He will tell you that they're already in peril because most of the islands in that nation are at a height of a meter or a maximum of two meters above sea level. And they don't even have to wait to be inundated.
I remember that in 1997, the IPCC held its plenary session in the Maldive Islands and President Gayoom stood before us, and he says, "Ladies and gentlemen, 10 years ago the place where you're holding this meeting was under about two feet of water." Because they have storm surges, they have natural events which with the high level of the sea only inundates large areas of land. So the point I'd like to make, sir, is the fact that when we're thinking of a global target, we really need to look at some of the equity implications of setting that target.
If you look at the country of Bangladesh, they have a large coastline, highly vulnerable to all kinds of natural disasters which become so much worse with sea level rise. But what are we going to protect them? It's a densely populated country highly dependent on agriculture. And every time they have a massive costal flood, they find it very difficult to save lives and property. Now you really can't create infrastructure for them like the dikes in the Netherlands. Perhaps that might be feasible, but the kinds of resources that would be required would be very, very high. If you look at the Himalayan range where the glaciers are melting very rapidly and the entire river system's going into the northern part of the subcontinent and parts of China originate in these glaciers. And with the reduced flow that we project, there would be about 500 million people in South Asia that will face fairly serious reduction of water availability, and about 250 million in China.
The reason why I'm mentioning these facts, sir, is because when we set a target at the global level -- and I hope the U.S. will be a leader in establishing these targets -- we need to look at what's going to happen around the world. And I would agree with you as a human being -- not necessarily as chairman of the IPCC -- that we need to question this figure of 2.5 degrees Celsius increase in temperature. Is that good enough or should we be looking at something less? And I think that's an issue that negotiators and political leaders need to decide. And as you rightly mention, species loss of 20 (percent) to 30 percent is clearly a huge loss that we have to do everything to prevent. It could make such a difference to ecosystems across the planet. It could make an enormous difference to economic activities that human beings are responsible for that we really need to look at this issue and it involves a value judgment, it involves looking at what's going to happen to the rest of the world and I think it's for a leadership -- a leader in the global community of nations like the U.S. to start articulating some of the measures that are required.
So I would say that the IPCC's assessment of industrialized countries reducing emissions by 25 (percent) to 40 percent by 2020 is based on this particular stabilization level. But maybe this is something that needs to be revisited five or 10 years in the future. For the time begin, perhaps if we want to stabilize at that level of 2 to 2.4 degrees Celsius, then clearly this is something that's inevitable, and peaking by 2015 is an essential part of such a strategy.
May I just say in conclusion, I suppose it's for this reason that the conference of the parties in Bali spent so much time and attention talking about this 25 (percent) to 40 percent reduction figure.
Of course, this was not accepted in the final statement, but I'm happy to see that at least the wording in the final statement called for deep cuts in emissions. And I hope nobody waters down those deep cuts, because we do need deep cuts in emissions.
REP. INSLEE: So I take it your scientific assessment is if all industrialized nations followed the most aggressive bill that's in the U.S. Congress right now, it's the bill that's gone through the Senate, it would simply call for the United States, and for the purpose of this question we'll assume all industrialized nations met this level, and it simply called for reaching 1990 levels by 2020, not the 25 to 40 percent reduction you've suggested, if in fact that's the goal and if in fact that goal was met, it would still result in a more than 50- 50 proposition of losing 20 to 30 percent of our species, substantial loss of shoreline, substantial loss of agricultural productivity and substantial productivity? In other words, we would still have these?
MR. PACHAURI: We still would have these. We will still have -- (inaudible) -- we will still have extreme precipitation events, and we will still have this commitment to sea level rise which, due to thermal expansion alone, would be quite significant.
REP. INSLEE: And this is a nonscientific statement, but as a human stepping out of your hat as IPC chairman for the moment, would you agree that every culture and community in the world would believe that is unacceptable and therefore believe that we ought to have a more aggressive target than that 1990 level for industrialized nations?
MR. PACHAURI: As a human being, sir, this prospect causes me deep anguish, because I would really question whether human progress that's going to result in these kinds of outcomes can really be labeled as human progress.
REP. INSLEE: I appreciate that. I don't want to leave on that note of gloom. I want to suggest we're fully capable of solving this problem. I gave you a book I've written about this. We're advancing this issue in Congress. We're going to join you in this effort. Thank you very much.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://globalwarming.house.gov/pubs/
