Public Statements
Providing For Consideration Of Senate Amendment to House Amendment to Senate Amendment to H.R. 6, Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Dec. 18, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO HOUSE AMENDMENT TO SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 6, ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, we are starting a clean energy revolution today. It is not the end of that revolution, it is not perhaps even the beginning of the end of that clean energy revolution, but it is the end of the beginning for two important points.
First, we are starting a revolution in transportation today in the United States, and exhibit A in that regard is the GM Volt. The GM Volt, which GM hopes to have in mass production, is a plug-in hybrid car. You plug it in at night, you drive it for 40 miles just on electricity, zero gasoline, and after 40 miles you use a hybrid train with gasoline and someday cellulosic ethanol for the remaining part of your range.
Our corporate average fuel economy standards, which we make the first
[Page: H16654]
strides in in three decades, will enhance the opportunity for Americans to have not just a few miles here or there per gallon, but a revolution in transportation.
This car will get over 100 miles per gallon of gasoline. This car will operate all on electricity for the first 40 miles. It is this revolutionary attitude that we need to have in America, and we make the first steps, and the first shots in that revolution are fired today.
But it is not the end of that revolution, because we have much more to do. We did not succeed this week in advancing renewable energy to have 15 percent of renewables. We did not succeed this week to advance tax relief for those emerging new businesses.
But exhibit A, on the renewable energy front, is a picture of the solar thermal array produced by the Austra Energy Company. This company this last month signed enough contracts for 500,000 homes to be heated by solar thermal energy which, within the decade, will be price competitive with coal-based energy if we succeed in our next steps in this clean energy revolution. That is why we will be back next year to have the true clean energy revolution America deserves.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.thomas.gov
