Public Statements
Ad Watch: Republican Bill Bryant is a Typical Republican Pushing Same Old, Stale Republican Policies Washington Voters Have Rejected Time and Time Again
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 13, 2016
Location: Seattle, WA

Republican Bill Bryant is out with his first ad today in an attempt to distract voters from his refusal to rule out supporting fellow Republican Donald Trump, claiming that he's non-partisan and would bring fresh air to Olympia.

The truth? Republican Bill Bryant is a partisan Republican who's given nearly $50,000 to national Republicans like George W. Bush and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, has campaigned across the state for Republicans to control Olympia, and is offering the same old, tired Republican ideas that Washington voters have rejected time and time again.
Republican Bill Bryant is such a partisan Republican that for over a year now he has refused to criticize the Republican Presidential nominee Donald Trump, even though he has made countless offensive remarks to women and minorities, and has put forward a dangerous policy agenda that would take Washington state backwards.

Meanwhile, Governor Jay Inslee has brought real change to Olympia. Because of Jay, Washington state is now investing again in education. Every child now has access to full-day kindergarten, he's lowered class sizes in the early grades, and for the first time in state history, we've shrunk college tuition for every student attending Washington public colleges, including community colleges and career and technical schools. After a decade of inaction in Olympia, Jay fought for and passed a much-needed bipartisan transportation package that will create 200,000 jobs and rebuild our aging infrastructure. And under Jay's leadership, we've seen massive improvements in the economy -- unemployment has gone down, over 250,000 jobs have been created, and Business Insider has ranked Washington state as the best economy in the nation.

"Republican Bill Bryant can't hide from the fact that he's a typical, partisan Republican who's given big bucks to George W. Bush, hasn't a bad word to say about fellow Republican Donald Trump, and shares a Republican policy agenda with Trump that would halt the progress we are making as a state. Republican Bill Bryant and the Republicans in Olympia, whom he desperately wants to hold power, have a conservative agenda that is out of step with Washington state values, such as keeping the minimum wage low, refusing to take common sense steps to reduce gun violence, and weakening Washington's landmark LGBT anti-discrimination law. Now is not the time for our state to go backwards with Republican Bill Bryant," said Inslee Communications Director Jamal Raad.

Source: http://www.jayinslee.com/news/articles/ad-watch-republican-bill-bryant-is-a-typical-republican-pushing-same-old-stale-republican-policies-washington-voters-have-rejected-time-and-time-again
