Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendments to H.R. 6, Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Dec. 6, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 6, ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 06, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, every revolution has a start. May 25, 1961, John F. Kennedy, with full confidence in Americans' ability to innovate, said we are going to go to the Moon in 10 years.
Skip ahead a few years, December 6, 2007, the day we are starting a clean energy revolution to give America economic growth through technological progress, and that progress is happening all across America. In every State, that progress is going to take place, because this bill is going to help innovators.
Let's take a quick run-through where: In Michigan, where General Motors plans on building the plug-in hybrid that you can drive 40 miles with zero gasoline and get 100 miles per gallon with batteries designed in Massachusetts.
In Florida, California, Arizona, Mississippi, a whole host of States, where the Ausra Technology Company has designed a solar thermal process to make C02-free solar energy within 10 years to be competitive with coal-based electricity. For those who say we can't do energy everywhere, where the sun shines, solar thermal energy will work, including in my State, the State of Washington.
We move forward, virtually every State in the country has the potential for biofuels, and here is a picture of the Imperium Biofuels Company. It is located in a former dying timber town of Grays Harbor, Washington. It is the largest biodiesel plant in the world, something America can be proud about, that we will expand.
And lastly, emerging technologies, some of which people have not heard about. This is a picture of a wave power buoy on the coast of Oregon. We have enough energy in the Pacific coast in a 10-by-10 mile stretch to power all of the electrical needs of the State of California. And this doesn't even start to talk about gains from efficiency.
This bill will help Americans insulate their homes, make sure they are using fairly efficient lighting, and make sure that their furnaces and air conditioning are efficient. And a new report just out this week says that we can cut by 50 percent our growth. Pass this bill and start this clean energy revolution.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.thomas.gov
