Public Statements
Green The Capitol Initiative
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Nov. 15, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


GREEN THE CAPITOL INITIATIVE -- (House of Representatives - November 15, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Thanks, Mr. Blumenauer, for leading this discussion. You know, when people come through the Capitol here, you can see them beaming with pride of the Capitol, and it's because we lead the world in democracy and people feel good about this building. Now, they're going to have another reason to feel good about the U.S. Capitol and the House of Representatives, because we intend to be the greenest parliamentary Chamber in the world. And, in fact, we probably will become the first zero carbon, become a carbon-neutral legislative body, the first in the world. And that's something that America can take pride in. And we're accomplishing that because we want to, on a bipartisan basis, do these commonsense things to try to reduce our CO
2 emissions.
And we're doing that. Switching from coal, first, to natural gas in our power plant, which reduces carbon dioxide something like 20 to 30 percent. We're then taking a look at the possibility of going to a totally renewable fuel of wood pellets grown in New Hampshire and some other places which would go to essentially zero CO
2 on a net basis.
Under the leadership of Nancy Pelosi and Dan Beard, we're having a green cafeteria. A new contract's been let so our cafeteria reduces by 50 percent the matter of waste. And when you reduce waste, you quit using energy.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. And the importance of this waste disposal from a global warming position is that every time you reduce the amount of waste you throw away by a ton, you reduce the amount of carbon dioxide going into the atmosphere by two tons by not wasting all that production and energy associated with it.
So what we're doing in this House is doing what a picture I have here of Mike and Meg Town of their home in Redmond, Washington, one the rainiest places in the United States, who built a home that's essentially carbon neutral. By doing the same kinds of things they're doing in their house, we're now going to do in the people's House, which is to use some commonsense waste disposal systems, decent insulation, energy-efficient lighting, energy-efficient heating and cooling system. They use solar photovoltaics to get to a carbon neutral house.
People are doing this across the country. I'm proud to say we're starting to do it in this House. And I know I'd like to yield to Mr. Farr who can help us on that.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Well, the point I would like to make is to point out why these things are happening. They're happening because of leadership. We have leadership from the top with Speaker Nancy Pelosi who, when she assumed office I think in the first week or two, said we're going to have a green House of Representatives, and we're going to save money in the process. And she had a good leader, Dan Beard, take charge of this.
And the reason I point this out is that you look at, in corporate America we see similar leadership. The President of Dow Chemical, who 10 years ago basically said we're going to save money, they have now reduced their energy usage by at least 30 percent, and they intend to reduce it another 20 percent. And when I asked him, Why did you do this? He said, Really simple, it saves money.
British Petroleum, a petroleum and oil company under the leadership of former Chairman Sir Henry Brown, had reduced their usage of energy and saved $300 million and actually met what would have been their CO
2 emissions target. It happens because of leadership.
And I want to comment on one thing the House is doing as well. We are committing to buying green electricity. That means electricity that is generated by non-CO
2-emitting sources. And I just want to make a point. This is not something that is just a pipe dream; it is really happening.
I want to show two types of technology that are working today. One, I want to show a solar thermal technology. This is a solar thermal technology manufactured by the Ausra Energy Company. The Ausra Energy Company just signed contracts with the Florida Public Power and Light Company and the California Public Utility for over 400 megawatts. That's enough to do over 400,000 homes of pure CO
2 solar energy. And the way this works is, they've discovered a way to manufacture mirrors that are flat, that are very inexpensive, that focus the radian energy of the sun on a pipe that has water or a liquid metal in it, very long sheaths here. This is several acres of mirrors. This hot water then makes steam, the steam makes CO
2-emitting energy. And they intend to make this for prices competitive with coal within the decade.
Now, I point this out for our Members in the Chamber who think we can't do solar power in Florida. It's happening in Florida now, and in California. And if people think that this is some type of thing that just the hemp-wearing folks of America believe in, people are going to make money on this, because for every two acres of these mirrors, you can power 1,000 homes. This is not just to run your little fan, it's to run all of your electricity in your house. And that's what we intend to do in this House, because this House, under the leadership of Nancy Pelosi, understands the future of technology to allow this.
I want to point out just one other technology that has the capability of helping in this regard, and I will show just a quick story.
This is a picture of the Imperium biodiesel company.
It's called Imperium Energy. It's in Grays Harbor, WA. You see these tanks here; this is where biodiesel, which is essentially a zero CO
2-emitting biodiesel plant, that's in a former failing lumber town that has now reinvigorated the economy of Grays Harbor, WA. It happened because a guy named John Plaza had the guts and the vision to go out and buy some old vats from the Rainier Brewery in Seattle, WA, I used to be a fan of Rainier Brewery, for various reasons, and built himself, in his garage, in a little warehouse, a biodiesel plant, then went out and raised some venture capital and has now built the largest biodiesel plant in the world in Grays Harbor, Washington. And he is now going to be providing biodiesel, going to probably have 10 to 30 plants like this around the country.
Now, our proposal in the House to go to a green economy is based on the genius of guys like John Plaza, who know how to blend technology with venture capital and go out and make a buck and help us provide green technology. And this is what we're doing in the House, and I'm excited about it. And I think there is a reason to be proud of it.
I wonder if I could yield to Mr. George Miller, who has been instrumental in this program.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. I want to just express an experience that we have had and these companies that have gone down this route have had. Two things they've learned: Number one, hardly anybody gripes about it. I mean it's amazing. We have done all these things we have been talking about here tonight, changing the coal plant, changing the cafeteria, changing paper usage, changing lighting usage, changing some of our transportation usage, and, frankly, nobody is griping about it. We have got 435 people here griping about everything from the weather to the price of bananas, but none of our Members are griping about this because we are finding out that we can accommodate our businesses and our lifestyles just fine if we do this. And businesses have learned this as well. That's the first rule of greening an organization.
The second rule is that people find out that virtue is cumulative. When people take one little step forward, they get into it, and then they take another step, and then they take another step. And companies continue. That's why Dow Chemical, even though they have been spectacularly successful in reducing their energy use by 20, 30 percent, they are going to get another 20, 30 percent because people get excited about it, and we're seeing that.
I wanted to just touch on transportation that Mr. Blumenauer was talking about. Mr. Boehner was criticizing this effort to give our employees flexibility to use cars. I want to mention two technologies that I think can help reinvent our transportation system in America.
One is we are now testing a software system in Seattle which will give you instantaneous ride-sharing so that on your text message or your BlackBerry, you can say I want to go to this theater, get my ride, and this software system will patch you through to whoever is going in that direction. In 5 minutes, boom, you've got a ride. And that system has incredible promise to reduce congestion and reduce your cost of transportation if we can all start sharing rides in that regard. And I'm very excited about this. It has just gone in the first stage of trials.
The second technology I want to mention, this is well beyond the House, but I want Members to know about this. We are having this discussion about improving average fuel economy standards. In the next 2 weeks, hopefully, we will have it on this floor for debating on. But I think the capability exists to blow way beyond anything that we have even thought about in fuel mileage. We're arguing about whether we can get 35 miles a gallon. I drive a car today that gets 45 miles a gallon. I'm six-two, 200 pounds. It's a five-passenger car. It's very convenient and it's safe.
[Time: 23:20]
We have a technology coming on in 5 or 6 years in cars that are on the road today called plug-in hybrid cars, and I learned about them when I was writing this book that Mr. Blumenauer talked about. It is plug-in hybrid technology. And here is a car that General Motors has. It is in reality. Here is a picture of it. It is the GM Volt. They want to have it on the road, mass production in
[Page: H14077]
5 or 6 years. And the way it works is using an incredible battery technology. You plug it in at night; it has a little port. You plug it in, charge it for 6 to 8 hours. You unplug it in the morning, go about your driving. You can drive 40 miles with just electricity, no gasoline, no ethanol, just pure juice out of your plug. And it costs two-thirds less per mile than gasoline.
Now, if you want to drive more than 40 miles, then you have a hybrid engine like the one in the car I am driving, in the Ford Escape or Toyota Prius. It will take you wherever you want to go for 200, 300 miles. Someday it will burn cellulosic ethanol as well as gasoline. Right now these cars are on the road today. I've driven one on the Capitol grounds. They get 100 miles per gallon of gasoline today. When you drive it with ethanol, you will get 500 miles of gasoline. And the electricity you use will get cleaner over time. This car will get better over time as the electric grid becomes cleaner. You start using more solar power, more wind power, you actually put out less carbon. Nothing gets better in life as it gets older except wine and a plug-in electric car.
I point this out because when we have this debate on the House floor in a few weeks, some people are going to say, Gee, I don't know if we can get to 35. Baloney. Hogwash. We have scads of cars that get 10 or 15 over that today, and you have a car that is going to get 100 miles per gallon in 5 or 6 years. This is something we can do in this new spirit in the House led by Nancy Pelosi, to head down this route to the future, is one people are going to be happy with, and they have.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Just one general one, and that is that the reason our approach to greening the Capitol works is that we are the optimists in this debate. We are the people who believe that options exist, that technologies will continue to grow, and as a result of that, Americans will have more choices of how they use energy and how they produce energy.
We have mentioned some of those new technologies tonight. I will just give you an example of a couple I've learned about in the last year about how to produce green electricity. We have made a commitment to buy green electricity for the U.S. House of Representatives. I just want to mention a couple of new ways to produce it.
One is wave power. If you have ever watched a big ship bob up and down on the waves, you understand how much power there is on the ocean. We have people capturing that energy and able to create electricity. This is a picture of a buoy. A similar one is going off the coast of Oregon this fall. The first wave power buoys in the world to be deployed were in Hawaii and are now powering some naval stations.
These are designed to essentially capture energy. As these buoys bob up and down, they compress water or air, creating pressure, which drives a generator, creates electricity, goes to the shore on a wire. Each have the capability to power close to 1,000 homes. There is enough energy in the waves in a 10-by-10-mile stretch off the Pacific Coast to produce all of the electricity for the State of California.
We are not guaranteed these are going to work because we have to make sure they can survive the terrible stresses at sea. But according to the Department of Energy, they have the capacity to produce 10 percent of all the electrical usage in the United States. I point this out because this technology wasn't even dreamed of 10 years ago.
Now, we have another option that could be available to Americans that right now, big investment, there's a lot of private investment in these companies. A company Finavera in Washington, a company called Ocean Power Technologies, there is a company associated with Oregon State University in Mr. Blumenauer's State. All work different approaches to this.
A second one that is intended to capture the power of the oceans are tidal-powered turbines that work sort of like a wind turbine, but they work on the currents that are driven by the tides. This is a picture of one. This is one by Verdant Power that works just like a wind turbine, but uses water through the blades instead of wind. Verdant actually has these in the East River in New York City. They are actually powering a grocery store right now with electricity.
We found out when the first six went in the water, there's actually more power than they knew, which actually disabled some of these so they have got to rebuild them to make them stronger, which is good news because there is more power than they thought.
We have someone in the State of Washington looking at potentially powering 50,000 homes with these tidal turbines now in the estuaries of Puget Sound.
I just point this out that we believe there are numerous options; we believe there are technologies that are going to free us from the constraints of the past. We are proving it in the U.S. Capitol. You can look at the dome and see the citadel of democracy and the citadel of new ways to save energy and produce it. I think Americans can be proud of that. I think we have a right to be a little bit, too.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. We know we can do this. We know, because we have had success. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, we improved our mileage of our cars by 60 percent. Then in 1994 those efforts stopped and we stopped making any progress. Our cars are getting actually less mileage than they did in 1984. If we had simply continued on that rate of improvement, we would be free of Saudi Arabian oil today. Now we have got to get back on this bandwagon of using our brains to get better mileage. We know we can do this.
[Page: H14079]
Just as a closing comment, I want to express my appreciation to the Americans doing this. We are not the only ones doing this in the Capitol. I know a woman on Bainbridge Island that greened up her home. I would like to say we're meeting that bar here in the House.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.thomas.gov
