Public Statements
Hearing of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce - FDA Foreign Drug Inspection Program
Interview
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Nov. 1, 2007
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. JAY INSLEE (D-WA): Thank you. To put in the vernacular of the peasantry, this is a fine kettle of fish that we've got. Eighty percent of our active ingredients coming in from imports, it's doubling the amount every five years, and we find out we just don't have a meaningful inspection protocol. That's most troublesome.
And I just want to ask if my understanding is correct that unless we are able to pass the budgets that we are proposing that that actual situation is going to get worse. As I understand it, I'm told that the full-time equivalents, the FTEs, of the FDA's foreign inspection program was 149 in 2002. By fiscal year 2008, FDA estimates that number will actually drop to 102.
Now, we have tried to remedy that in our budget by increasing some of these appropriations. The president has threatened to veto our budgets. Didn't have a veto pen for the first six years of his presidency and all of a sudden he wants to veto these budgets.
My understanding is is that essentially, even though we already have a pathetically indifferent system to these imports that are wildly less protective of the American public than our domestic production, I'm told we can't even find out who these manufacturers are to have a really good compilation of them. Even though we're already bad, we're going to get worse unless we can override this president's veto of these appropriations bills.
Could you gentlemen help us in understanding if that's correct or not?
MR. DOWNEY: I wouldn't agree with a good deal of your comments. I will say this that we have 12 full-time auditors that audit our raw material suppliers, and we are a very small part of our drug supply system. So I think having 100 or 150 is definitely inadequate.
But I don't agree --
REP. INSLEE: I'm sorry, did you say inadequate?
MR. DOWNEY: Absolutely inadequate. I don't think you can properly fulfill the role that inspection plays in the overall regulatory process with that number of inspectors. I just don't think it can be done.
But on the other hand, I think we have in place a very large number of safeguards that I explained in my testimony that I think protect and ensure that we have high-quality, safe pharmaceuticals. I think the risk is, the biggest risks are counterfeiters who don't register, don't subject themselves to inspection, and we really need to make sure the first priority is allocating the resources to discover the people who are blatantly and in criminal violation of our statutes bringing products in the United States and supplement that with appropriate levels of inspection for those who are regulated.
REP. INSLEE: Well, foreign field inspectors would help on the counterfeit problem -- would they not? -- as well.
MR. DOWNEY: I don't think they have a very large role in that at all.
REP. INSLEE: Okay. Well, let's talk about the first problem. I thought I heard, Mr. Downey, you say that there's no legitimate reason to have a lesser standard of inspection for foreign manufacturers than for domestic manufacturers.
MR. DOWNEY: I absolutely think that's true.
REP. INSLEE: You totally agree with that. Well, if you look at the chart up here that I'm holding showing the FDA foreign field funding, you see a constant decline that we are trying to remedy in our appropriations that the president has threatened to veto. And I want to make sure I understand your testimony. I thought you were telling us that you want -- you thought we should have the same level of inspections --
MR. DOWNEY: Absolutely.
REP. INSLEE: -- for foreign productions as domestic. We're not doing that right now, and we have a decreasing number of people that are going to do that. So I would assume you'd agree with me that that's a bad state of affairs and we should increase the number of inspections and we should override the president's veto if we have to to get that done.
MR. DOWNEY: I think we should increase the number of inspections, and I said I think my recommendation would be that starting tomorrow, you reallocate inspectors to the foreign inspections because relative to domestic inspection they're too infrequent, and simultaneously work to increase the resources to have enough inspectors to conduct the appropriate number of inspections of both.
REP. INSLEE: Well, I think this hearing is instructive because I think it's important for the American public to know that we've got a president who's threatening to veto a bill that will increase protections of Americans against foreign imports that do not meet accepted standards. And I'm hoping this hearing can help remedy that situation. Thank you.
MR. DOWNEY: I have very little power over the veto. (Laughs.)
REP. INSLEE: We have some. We might need a few more votes. If you have any friends, you might talk to them.
Mr. Villax, did you want to say something?
MR. VILLAX: Yes, the plants located abroad that make APIs find these inspections very important because it's tough to meet the requirements of an inspection and we need these inspections to make sure we have a level playing field. And the members of our association, we've gone on record to say we're happy to pay user fees for these inspections. These are important inspections to have.
REP. INSLEE: Thank you. And when the EU gets a role in Congress, we know you're going to help us override this veto, too. Thank you.
MR. VILLAX: Well, I think you should approach the EU and say that you want to set up some kind of -- or FDA needs to agree with them to recognize each other's inspection reports. This is what I meant by "more smarter" enforcement because they do between 20 and 50 inspections in Asia.
REP. INSLEE: I think that's an interesting proposal. Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://energycommerce.house.gov/Subcommittees/ovin.shtml
