Public Statements
Hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, Panel I - Security of the Nation's Food Supply?
Interview
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Oct. 11, 2007
Location: Washington, DC

Hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, Panel I - Security of the Nation's Food Supply?
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. JAY INSLEE (D-WA): Thank you.
I appreciate the chairman's talking about these other hearings; because I think it's really important while we focus today about the Chinese problem, that this is just one hole in a safety net that has many holes. The kids who were damaged by spinach -- it wasn't from China. It was from fields in California. And we had more, I'm told, food rejected in our inspection process from India last year than China. So I just don't think we can lose sight of the fact that this entire scheme needs to be changed. And I appreciate the chair's leadership on that.
I hope today that we'll hear answers to three questions I'd like to pose: First, we need to have a least as aggressive a food safety program as Hong Kong. We'll hear testimony about the Hong Kong process that requires certificates to allow entry -- at least Chinese imports. And the question arises: Should we at least have as vigorous a program as they do?
Second, I'd like to hear whether it's time have at least as rigorous an inspection protocol from the FDA as the USDA. Why are we not providing the same level of protection for non-meat and fish products? And I think we're starting to see hazards associated with those that would justify that action.
And third, I hope we'll have a discussion of the plans -- or at least discussion of closure of labs at the very moment we have this continued increase in threats. And it is a great increase (sic/decrease) in confidence -- 70 percent of Americans now do not trust these overseas products. So I hope we'll have a discussion of that -- what appears to me to be a very shortsighted effort.
With that, I'll yield back. Thanks, Mr. Chair.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. JAY INSLEE (D-WA): Thank you.
I appreciate Ms. DeGette's questions about this not accepting or reviewing the Chinese certification process in which -- apparently was one reason for the melamine problem because there's the disconnect. What possible reason for -- is there for us not requiring at least that, even if the Chinese system internally is ineffective or at least not totally proficient? Why wouldn't we at least require their certification process to be complied with before we accept any product that could end up in our food chain here? Does that make any sense?
MR. NELSON: No, we posed the question to some of the people that are engaged in negotiations for -- on HHS and FDA's behalf with China right now. And the responses we got were, "Well, we might not want to exclude small farms and small processors from exporting to the United States." And somehow or another, that was ideologically unacceptable and that if we -- the Chinese could use it possibly to exclude American firms that wanted to set up operations in China for export to the United States -- these were some of the excuses, but we have FDA witnesses. You're best to put that question to them.
REP. INSLEE: Wait. These are excuses by our side of the pond?
MR. NELSON: By our side.
REP. INSLEE: Okay.
Do we do that in any other context for other countries? I mean, just to me it's difficult to understand in any country that has any regulatory system to not at least allow that minimal level of inspection to require that. Do we do that in any other context?
MR. NELSON: None comes to mind. I mean, what's important about the certification system in China is that it excludes almost all producers in the -- I mean, there's a very small percentage of farms and food processors that qualify for those export certificates. It doesn't mean that the food they produce is going to be 100 percent safe or 100 percent inspected as the Chinese government maintains it is, but at least you're not getting it from the 90-95 percent of the food industry in China that doesn't go through the system.
REP. INSLEE: And do you sense one of our failures to require that is actually some fear that American firms would be disadvantaged somehow?
MR. NELSON: That's one of the excuses that we heard. I don't think that the administration's really thought this through -- at least the people we were talking to didn't seem to be aware of how the system works, for example.
REP. INSLEE: Could you just give us your sort of take, if you were going to rank the top three priorities, from your experience in China, for us to adopt? Where would you put them? Let me ask it a little easier: The most cost effective -- tell us, you know, from what your observations are, what would be the three most cost effective things we could do to tighten this net?
MR. NELSON: Well, as an economist I'd tell you that the first thing is you have to tell me how you value safety. If you put a high value on safety, the system that you heard about that the Japanese employ appears to be a far safer system than we have, because they actually have government inspectors going to a limited number of plants that produce food for the Japanese markets. So those plants are not only part of the Chinese certification system, they're also part of a Japanese inspection system. And then Japan, on top of that, does 15 percent laboratory testing of the imports. That's a pretty expensive proposition both in terms of the government resources involved in Japan and in terms of the prices of these products in China.
One of the real problems with toys or food or anything else in China is the incessant downward pressure to get cheaper and cheaper and cheaper. And when we're dealing with entities -- people that are living at the margin -- that means that niceties like what the downside safety effects of what they do get less and less important. And what the Japanese system does, as far as I can tell -- as it's been described to me -- is it creates some pretty valuable franchises. Franchises means prices can't be depressed. So there's a price effect to that. There's a price premium and food is more expensive, I understand, in Japan than it is here and they get a lot of it from China.
REP. INSLEE: Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://energycommerce.house.gov/Subcommittees/ovin.shtml
