Public Statements
Small Business Investment Expansion Act of 2007
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Sept. 27, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT EXPANSION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I offer an amendment.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Amendment No. 2 offered by Mr. Inslee:
Section 206, add at the end the following:
(c) Expanded Definition of Operational Assistance.--Section 351(5) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 689(5)) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, including assistance on how to implement energy efficiency and sustainable practices that reduce the use of non-renewable resources or minimize environmental impact and reduce overall costs and increase health of employees''.
The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House Resolution 682, the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Washington.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to support the Inslee-Welch amendment to the Small Business Investment Act which will support the legislation's overall goal to modernize small business investment programs. Small businesses are the backbone of the growth in our economy and will be the brains behind the forthcoming clean-energy revolution.
Our amendment will ensure that the small business investment companies give consideration to innovators that create clean energy technologies and services.
There are 26.8 million small businesses in the United States. The vast majority of renewable fuels producers, such as biodiesel and ethanol, are small businesses. The chairwoman understands this, and I thank her for her support and commend her efforts to support small green businesses.
Under the chairwoman's leadership, the House passed a clean energy package that will help small businesses become more energy efficient and will establish a debenture financing program exclusively focused on investments in renewable fuels.
These efforts truly have been outstanding. However, I believe we must ensure that every piece of legislation that passes this Chamber that deals with taxpayer dollars and Federal investment include a provision to encourage investments in truly clean energy technologies. This amendment will help American innovators and entrepreneurs turn their ideas into products that will help prevent our worst-case climate change scenarios and will create green-collar jobs, and I urge its passage.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I offer an amendment.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Amendment No. 3 offered by Mr. Inslee:
Redesignate section 104 as 105 and insert after section 103 the following:34
SEC. 104. INCREASED INVESTMENTS IN SMALL BUSINESSES CREATING NEW TECHNOLOGIES, MANUFACTURED GOODS, OR MATERIALS OR PROVIDING SERVICES TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS IN THE UNITED STATES, REDUCE THE USE OF NON-RENEWABLE RESOURCES, MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, AND RELATE PEOPLE WITH THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.
Section 303 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 683), as amended by this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
``(k) Increased Investments in Small Businesses.--The Administrator shall give consideration to investments in small businesses that are creating new technologies, manufactured goods, or materials, or providing services to reduce carbon emissions in the United States, reduce the use of non-renewable resources, minimize environmental impact, and relate people with the natural environment.''.
The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House Resolution 682, the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Washington.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer a second Inslee-Welch amendment that will help small business achieve energy efficiency. We need all hands on deck in the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including our Nation's 26 million small businesses.
This amendment will help small businesses in low-income areas upgrade to energy-efficient buildings, technologies and practices. It will give them operational assistance in these areas through the New Market Venture Capital program.
The majority of small business owners say that they have been affected by rising energy prices and that reducing energy costs will serve to increase their profitability. At the same time, however, half of these entrepreneurs have not yet invested in energy-efficient programs for their businesses.
For instance, if a small business owner can replace 20 100-watt incandescent bulbs with 27-watt compact fluorescent bulbs, it does cost the owner $400 up front but saves them $980 a year in energy costs.
The owner of the Snoqualmie Gourmet Ice Cream factory in Maltby, WA retrofitted their small business lighting system and reduced their lighting costs by 50 percent. So we know that these simple, new, relatively inexpensive technologies pay for themselves in months, or at most in a couple of years.
We know small businesses benefit from energy efficiency and sustainable workplace practices. This amendment will help American innovators with the know-how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in America while increasing their profits. This is a green/green solution in both ways. I want to thank the chairwoman for her support, and urge passage of the amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
