Public Statements
Inslee Supports Energy Package He Helped Shape
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Aug. 4, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Inslee Supports Energy Package He Helped Shape
The U.S. House of Representatives approved two landmark energy independence bills aimed at weaning the nation off oil, creating American jobs and fighting global warming, goals shared by U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee's New Apollo Energy Act, H.R.2809. The most noteworthy amendment accepted and included in the energy package today was one that would require the nation's electricity mix to include at least 15 percent renewable energy by 2020, similar to an initiative approved by Washington state voters last fall.
"Washington voters led the way for the nation, and now Congress is starting to get it," said Inslee, who championed the state initiative, which also set a standard of 15 percent renewable electricity by 2020. "This is a sea change in American energy policy."
Inslee (D-Wash.) helped shape the House energy-independence package in recent months when it was considered by the Energy and Commerce and the Natural Resources committees. A range of provisions he won were included in the underlying bills, the New Direction for Energy Independence, National Security, and Consumer Protection Act, H.R. 3221, and the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act, H.R. 2776, which were both approved by the House today by votes of 241 to 172 and 221 to 189 respectively.
"By repealing $23 billion in government giveaways for Big Oil and investing in clean-energy technologies that will help tame global warming, the House fulfilled its promise to the American people of crafting an energy policy fit for the 21st century," said Inslee.
"Our nation needs a bold New Apollo Project that relies on the creative genius of American innovators and entrepreneurs to transition our economy from one based on fossil fuels to one based on clean technologies," he continued. "This package, and especially the nationwide standard for renewable electricity modeled after I-937 in Washington state, is a bold move in that direction."
Inslee authored provisions that would promote marine power, plug-in hybrid electric vehicles and energy efficiency. For marine power, which includes wave and tidal energy that is abundant in the Pacific Northwest, Inslee won language that would commission a nationwide baseline study on the feasibility of capturing so-called blue energy, authorize $50 million a year for five years to research and develop marine power, and extend the production tax credit to this source of renewable energy.
In terms of plug-in hybrids, Inslee's provisions would create a tax credit of $4,000 for consumers who purchase such vehicles with at least five megawatt hours of capacity, establish a program to demonstrate the feasibility of using these next generation green vehicles in different regions of the nation, and start a grant program to promote the use of plug-in hybrids by non-profit organizations, as well as state and local governments.
Inslee also got included in the underlying bill a measure that calls for a study of power-management software, which can reduce by up to 20 percent the amount of energy used by computers and monitors though software. One such program is made by a Seattle-based company called Verdiem. His other efficiency provision would require utilities to consider various policy options for promoting energy efficiency in its rate design structure, such as decoupling, which would separate the utility's profits from the amount of power sold in order to promote conservation.
The bills approved by the House strengthen national security by reducing dependence on foreign oil and making the largest investment in homegrown biofuels in history. They also support cutting-edge research and the development of new technologies that will bring down energy costs and help create new American jobs.
The legislation also would help make the United States a world leader in the fight against global warming. Efficiency provisions alone will reduce emissions by as much as 10.4 billion tons - more than the annual emissions of all cars on the road in the United States today - through 2030. The bills also call on the United State to re-engage in and lead the effort to establish a binding global warming agreement.
Passage of the Democratic energy independence initiative came over the weekend, as Congress pushed to finish several important bills before the August recess. The chamber is expected to approve a defense appropriations bill before adjourning for its month-long district work period.
The Senate passed its own energy package on June 21, 2007, by a vote of 65 to 27. It includes several important provisions that were not in the House bills, such as a vehicle fuel efficiency standard of 35 miles per gallon by 2020 and a requirement that U.S. cars and homes use 8.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2008, a number which increases progressively to 36 billion gallons by 2022.
A compromise must be reached between the House and Senate energy packages and approved by both chambers. It's expected that a conference report could be completed and voted on later this year.

Source: http://www.house.gov/inslee/press/4august2007.html
