Public Statements
Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act of 2007 --Continued--
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Aug. 1, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


CHILDREN'S HEALTH AND MEDICARE PROTECTION ACT OF 2007--Continued -- (House of Representatives - August 01, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, one of the great falsehoods I have heard today, unfortunately, is this attempt by one side of the aisle who is against trying to get kids health insurance here keep saying somehow we are raising the eligibility to those folks who are hanging out at the country club. That is simply not true. That is bogus. We are maintaining the same levels of eligibility in America that exist today, yesterday and tomorrow in this bill.
What we are doing is simply allowing our State governments, our local governments, the ones that I know many of my Republican friends believe are effective and more efficient than the Federal Government, to fulfill their desire to reach these kids who are eligible today, but the Federal Government is not actually reaching to provide this insurance.
Now, where is the criminality in that in that? Where is the inefficiency in that? We have simply said federally that children of a certain income level should have health insurance, and we are simply saying those same children of the same exact economic considerations are now going to actually get it. That's all we are doing.
I want to mention another thing we are doing here. We have 11 States that have really been ahead of the Federal Government in providing health insurance for their kids. As a result, for a decade now, they have been punished in that they haven't been able to use the same resources to reach the kid they have already insured.
We fix that, 100 percent fix today. The States, if you are from the States of Washington, Wisconsin, New Mexico, Connecticut, Hawaii, Rhode Island, Minnesota, Maryland, New Hampshire, Vermont and Tennessee, do not vote against this bill, because it finally, finally restores this inequity that finally we will be able to get fair treatment for your States and your children.
So, today, we have got a fair bill all the way around.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
