Public Statements
Transportation, Housing And Urban Development, And Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: July 24, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I rise to claim the time in opposition.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Washington is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. INSLEE. This is a misguided amendment. It is quite a surprise that of all of the decent efforts to help communities across the country, for some reason the gentleman picked this one. That is something beyond at least my understanding. The particular project involved here is a community center that is involved in a whole host of youth projects, including the Edmonds Boys and Girls Club, the Sno-King County Youth Club, the Triple Threat Basketball Club, the Brighton School, the Cascade Symphony Orchestra, the Edmonds High School Multi-Class Reunion, the Olympic Ballet Theater, the Sno-King Community Chorale, and Edmonds Community College.
I don't know why those seem like such un-American activities to the gentleman, but to our community and to the country at large, those are integral parts of our communities. I may note this is not a situation where somehow there has been some sort of Federal largesse, that is an intrusion into the community.
This is an effort where we have multiple parties that have been associated with funding this project. This is not just the Federal Government. In fact, it is less than 10 percent of the entire project. It is financed with Federal funds. It is largely a matter of local development, including a variety of local corporations. So where we have less than 10 percent in this final phase, why this has been selected doesn't make sense.
Now there is a difference, I suppose. I hold a press release from the author of the amendment dated February 28, 2007, announcing that the city of Winnsboro, Texas, had received $100,000 in Federal funds. The author of the amendment said: ``I am excited that some of the hard-earned tax dollars sent to Washington are flowing back into the county.'' There is a difference, I suppose, between that money flowing to Edmonds, Washington. In that case it was money going to the proponent of this amendment. In this case it goes to a different one. I am not sure I understand the difference.
I guess the difference is the money that went to Texas was chosen by the bureaucrats. The money that is selected here has been chosen by the United States House of Representatives. Now, I don't know why the proponent believes there is some intrinsic genius of the bureaucrats. Some believe all bureaucrats are smarter than all Congressmen, or the least wise bureaucrat is smarter than the most intelligent Congressman. Some may hold that view; I don't.
We have a valid community purpose here. We have a small Federal commitment, and we have a useful thing that is helping kids at risk as well as community development. I note that an economic evaluation of this particular project showed that it would have significant economic value as well as community value in helping the kids in these local communities.
So I would commend this small investment of Federal dollars in this community.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
