Public Statements
Department Of The Interior, Environment, And Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 27, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 27, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, behold the polar bear Ursus maritimus, one of the most magnificent creatures on earth, legendary in its strength and to date its survival.
But today its survival is at great risk. It deserves the protection of the Marine Mammal Protection Act, and it does not have it.
Today we seek to close the loophole that alone amongst marine mammals allows the importation of bear heads, bearskins, bear claws in opposition to the basic concept of the Marine Mammal Protection Act. And we do so because this animal certainly is at risk. It is at risk because where there is no ice, there are no polar bears. This creature is dependent on the ice, and the ice is disappearing. That is what has led the Bush administration's Secretary of Interior to propose to list it as a threatened species.
But it gets worse. If you look at what the future is going to bring this bear, by 2040 the recent studies indicate that there will be no meaningful sea ice in the Arctic ocean by 2040 upon which these bears depend for their survival.
Now, we have folks who do enjoy trophy hunting in the United States, and there is nothing wrong with hunting or any suggestion of that in this amendment. But the truth is this: At this moment of risk to these bears, polar bear cubs need their parents in their dens more than we need polar bearskins in our dens. And this will simply close that loophole to remove that lack of protection from these animals.
Now, these animals are not threatened just in the United States. The ongoing trophy hunt is going on in Canada, where the International Polar Bear Community has found that at least half of the specific populations of polar bears are at great risk for extinction. And we know that hunters can be a force for conservation. We know they help provide habitat for ducks with Ducks Unlimited.
But the fact of the matter is, is that with a bullet to a bear, you cannot conserve it. And the fact of the matter is that the $750 permits that go to this bear hunt cannot solve the problem of global warming. And we stand here today to say that we ought to have the same level of American national commitment to the polar bears' continued survival as we have had for the bald eagle. And if we demonstrate that commitment, our grandchildren will enjoy these polar bears. And if we do not, they will not.
Mr. Chairman, I would like to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. LoBiondo).
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from Utah (Mr. Bishop) for a brief question.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman, the simple question I have is the picture of the polar bear that is down there, that is not, by any chance, new, is it?
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, this is an old polar bear species that has been around here for centuries, and the ice is melting under its feet.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Whitfield).
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. I would like to address this canard that this is an anti-hunting amendment.
In fact, Americans enjoy passing down the tradition of hunting to their kids, their sons and daughters; and that tradition should be able to continue. But if the prey is gone, there is no hunting. And if we don't get serious about recovering polar bears, we will not be able to hunt anything because they will not exist. And if we don't stop this loophole which allows importing polar bear heads, contrary to the Marine Mammal Protection Act, we cannot tell our children we are serious about recovering this species.
Listen to the science. In 40 years will there will be no polar ice cap. And shooting polar bears and putting them in our dens in Texas or any other great State in this country is not consistent with what we did for the American bald eagle. And if we work together, hunters, nonhunters, left and right, east and west, we can accomplish this goal. But I'm suggesting this is a commonsense measure to close this loophole and listen to the science.
These species are going to have a 30 percent decline in the next 30 years. Three of the six Canadian groups that are already hunted are deemed at risk by the international scientific community.
I don't know what the Canadians are thinking. It's a great country; they're the greatest ice hockey teams in the world. But maybe they haven't got the best polar bear policy like we do in the good old USA.
Enforce the Marine Mammal Protection Act. Bring some common sense. Tell our kids we're going to keep these species available to them and pass this amendment.
The Acting CHAIRMAN. The Chair will remind the gentleman from Washington that he has 15 seconds remaining in his previous time which he may wish to reserve to close.
Mr. INSLEE. I will reserve to close.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Chairman, I would just like to submit that the day we yield to Canadian judgment, we would replace baseball with ice hockey. It is not the American principle. We have a strong Marine Mammal Protection Act. It has a clear loophole. We do not want the last polar bears to be head and skins in dens. We want this species to continue. This will do that. Pass this amendment.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
