Public Statements
Inslee Unveils Hallmark Bill During Debate On Energy Independence
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 20, 2007
Location: Unknown


Inslee Unveils Hallmark Bill During Debate On Energy Independence
U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.) unveiled the second version of his comprehensive clean-energy bill during a markup of energy-independence legislation in the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Air Quality.
Inslee, who opposed several provisions in an earlier draft of the bill under consideration, offered his hallmark New Apollo Energy Act during the committee session to provide a broader vision for energy-independence and climate-change legislation.
"The New Apollo Energy Act is as bold as the new technologies popping up around the country," said Inslee during the subcommittee hearing. "American innovators have the creative genius necessary to beat global warming; I'm hopeful Congress has the will."
First introduced in June 2005, Inslee's legislation aims to help transition the U.S. economy from one based on fossil fuels to one based on clean-energy technologies. This economic transformation would make the United States the leader in the burgeoning clean-energy sector, create high-wage American jobs, improve national security by ending reliance on unstable foreign regimes for oil, and reduce emissions of harmful greenhouse gasses.
All bills must be filed in each two-year session of Congress. For the 110th Congress, Inslee made his New Apollo Energy Act more aggressive than its predecessor. For example, the version of the bill offered in the 109th Congress would have set an economy-wide cap on carbon-dioxide emissions at year 2000 levels by the year 2020. Now, it would cut emissions 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050.
Continued Inslee, "This bill reflects not only the increased urgency in the fight against global warming, but also the flood of innovative clean-energy technologies we're seeing today."
The goals of the New Apollo Energy Act are accomplished in the second version of the legislation with many of the same programs that were included in the first: energy- efficiency and fuel-efficiency standards; a federal standard for renewable energy in the electricity mix; an American cap and trade program to limit greenhouse-gas emissions; increased funding for research and development of green technologies; and, tax incentives for consumers, industries and utilities, among others.
Inslee's proposal harkens to President John F. Kennedy's vision to get man to the moon and back in the 1960's. Like the original Apollo Project, this 21st-century initiative would require national leadership, commitment and investment. The cost of the New Apollo Energy Act would be offset by repealing federal subsidies for Big Oil, redirecting proceeds from a carbon cap and trade program, and spurring economic growth with the development of green industries.
"In the 1960's it was the space race that took us to the moon. In the 1980's we had the arms race. Today we are in the midst of a clean-energy race that inevitably will determine what country creates millions of new jobs. The New Apollo Energy Project will make the United States the world leader in the race for clean-energy technologies," Inslee added.
A member of the House Energy and Commerce and House Natural Resources committees and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, Inslee long has been a congressional champion of conservation and environmental protection. He hosted meetings and conducted research for several years before he introduced the New Apollo Energy Act in June 2005. The new version of his legislation will be introduced in the House this week.

Source: http://www.house.gov/inslee/issues/energy/inslee_unveils_apollo.html
