Public Statements
Global Warming
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: June 7, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


GLOBAL WARMING -- (House of Representatives - June 07, 2007)
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of January 18, 2007, the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Inslee) is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, I have come to the floor this evening with Mr. Cleaver of Missouri, and perhaps others will join us, with a message of optimism in the face of a great challenge that our country faces. And we have faced many challenges, but one of the more pressing for ourselves and our grandchildren is the issue of global warming, this concern that our increased carbon dioxide and other gasses is going to result in significant climactic shifts. And the science, of course, has been very disturbing recently about this threat.
But we have come to talk about a message of optimism that our country ought to have in our ability to solve this problem. And it is a large problem. It is perhaps certainly more global than we have ever had outside of war. But we today want to talk about why we believe America is ready to face that challenge, why we believe America is capable of succeeding in beating global warming, and why we believe the effort to defeat global warming will ultimately benefit the United States economy by allowing us to lead the world in new clean energy technologies.
And I would like to, in preface to our comments today, just set the stage about what the challenge is and why we believe the solution is one that Americans are fully capable of obtaining.
First, the challenge. The challenge, of course, is that we have created a condition where we may double the concentration of carbon dioxide in our atmosphere by about 2050, twice as high as carbon dioxide has ever been since before pre-industrial times. And, of course, all of the scientists in the world agree that carbon dioxide is a global warming gas, and it does stand to reason that if you double the amount of this global warming gas, you could have problems in your climate. And, unfortunately, the evidence has become more and more disturbing.
Just last week, the Goddard Space Science Department at NASA came out with a new report authored by lead author James Hansen that said, ``If global emissions of carbon dioxide continue to rise at the rate of the past decade, this research shows that there will be disastrous effects, including the increasingly rapid sea level rise, increased frequency of droughts and floods, and increased stress on wildlife and plants due to rapidly shifting climate zones.''
This is not a quote from some fellow living in a tepee. This is NASA. The agency that sent an American to the moon has been looking at what is happening right here at home on Earth and has concluded that, indeed, we have trouble; and what is very disturbing is that the most recent science has been more disturbing.
We were briefed by Dr. John Schellenhuller, who is the lead scientist in Europe on this subject, last week, who told us about the increasing melt in the Arctic that has increased in severity, about the melting tundra. The rate of the melt of the tundra is melting much more rapidly than was anticipated even a year ago; and, of course, that can release methane gas, which is even 16 times worse for global warming than even carbon dioxide. My local scientists at the University of Washington in Seattle have confirmed these findings.
So, basically, we have got an issue that we have got to deal with. And right now there really is a race going on in the world of tipping points. These scientists have told us that we are approaching tipping points where the climate can tip into regimes where we would have uncontrollable global warming and that that could happen in as short as shortly after the next decade.
But we have another tipping point which we believe we are about to cross over here in Congress, and that is a tipping point where the U.S. Congress will tip from sort of an approach of the ostrich, where we had our head in the sand, to tip over to the approach of the American eagle, where we will have a new vision about a new clean energy technological future for this country.
So we are here tonight to say that that new approach of optimism is one that will prevail starting next Wednesday when the Energy Subcommittee in the U.S. Congress will start discussions about a new clean energy future for this country.
I will be introducing a bill in about a week called the New Apollo Energy Act, which will come forth with a whole suite of ideas about how to adopt new clean energy solutions. And, of course, we call it the New Apollo Energy Act because we think what Kennedy believed about America, which was that we were the greatest innovation country in the world, is something that we have got going for us. So we should use our technological genius just like we did when we went to the moon.
So before I yield to Mr. Cleaver, I want to talk about why I have optimism about our ability to skin this cat, why I believe we can dramatically reduce our carbon dioxide emissions and dramatically tell our grandchildren that we are going to use our know-how to solve this problem. And the reason I am confident about this is that in the last year I have been doing a rather intensive review of the technology that we hope to bring to bear on this subject and I have been getting to know the Americans really across the country who tonight are inventing new technological solutions so we can move forward on clean energy. I just want to mention a few of them.
First, there is a company in Massachusetts called the A123 Battery Company. I love the number. A123 Battery Company. And they have developed a lithium ion battery which is so powerful that basically in the size of about two or three shoe boxes you could put it in your car, which they are prepared to do this fall, and turn your hybrid car into a plug-in hybrid car. And I drove one actually, a converted plug-in hybrid that I drove around the capital a few weeks ago. This battery is so powerful that you will be able to plug in your car, drive it for 20 to 40 miles just on electricity, no gasoline. Then after 40 miles you use gasoline and you will get over 150 miles a gallon on either your ethanol, eventually, once it is a flex-fuel, plug-in hybrid, or your gasoline. Now, that is a heck of a deal for Americans for your first 40 miles to have zero carbon dioxide coming out your tailpipe. A123 Battery Company.
The second company called Nanosolar. Nanosolar is a new company in California that has developed a photovoltaic cell, a solar cell, which uses nanotechnology to dramatically decrease the manufacturing costs and the costs of solar energy. And they are going to make a solar cell that is 1/50 as thick as the current silicone-based solar cells. It is called thin cell technology.
A third company, Ausra Company, a former Australian company that has been moved to the United States that has breakthrough technology on solar thermal where you use parabolic mirrors to concentrate the sun's rays to heat gas to 1,100 degrees and turn a turbine, again, dramatically potentially reducing the cost of solar energy.
So I wanted to first start our discussion with the context of great Americans doing great things in energy, and here are three companies moving forward. And to continue this discussion, I want to yield to Mr. Cleaver, who has been a great leader on these energy issues fresh in Congress. I would like to yield to him for his perspective on our ability to move forward in global warming and clean energy.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. We are hopeful. I actually gave a speech in response to Prime Minister Tony Blair last week in Berlin. I was asked to present sort of an American response to the Prime Minister's ideas about global warming. One of the things he talked about is what the Europeans have learned is that we need some action, some policies to drive investment into these clean energy technologies that can produce the clean energy to avoid the kind of problems you are describing in Greenland. And of course the President is right now in Germany today at the G8 Summit.
We are hopeful, although probably not that optimistic, that the President would propound some ideas where we will guarantee our grandchildren that we are going to reduce our CO
2 emissions. Now, one way or another, Congress needs to do that, because we've got an obligation to American grandkids to do it.
I want to just note a couple of things. It's not just Greenland that is experiencing it. It's the good ole U.S. of A.
I got to know some people in Alaska in a little town called Shishmaref that sits on the Arctic Ocean. That is the first city in America that is having to be relocated due to global warming because they live right on the coastline, and the tundra that supports their houses is melting, and the seas are encroaching, and it has actually eaten some of their houses already. They are actually going to have to move their entire city. They've already voted to do it. They are going to move it 13 miles inland to a little place called Fish Camp.
It will be the first American city to have to relocate its first victim of global warming. That's a sad day when you think Americans already have to relocate their cities. So this is not something that's 50 years in the future. It's here today.
Now, we have experienced off the coast of Washington and Oregon the same issues you've talked about, about new species of fish coming in. And our ranchers down in the western United States are having unprecedented drought they are having to deal with. This is something Americans are suffering today. And that is why, starting next Wednesday, we hope to have an aggressive congressional response to help these clean air technologies move forward. So I appreciate your observations of Greenland.
I wonder if I could maybe yield to Mr. Udall, who has joined us here this evening, who has been a leader and certainly has a long tradition in his particular family in leading environmental issues.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. I really appreciate Mr. Udall talking about efficiency, because I think we need to look at it as the first fuel. Before you start generating excess energy, if we could figure out how to use it more efficiently and not waste it, that's what I look at as like finding money in the street, it's the first fuel. And Europe has had tremendous success. England has increased their gross domestic product by 70 percent in the last 20 years, but their use of electricity has remained flat. That is a tremendous improvement of efficiency. You don't waste it.
But it is not just the English. We have something to brag about here, too. California has increased their gross economic activity by 50 percent in the last 10 years, and their per capita use of electricity has remained flat. They have done it through measures such decoupling utilities with the rate of growth of electricity so utilities now can make money by selling less energy by selling efficiency. And it has been effective.
In my city of Seattle, in my neck of the woods, the same thing has happened by doing some of the commonsense things we have talked about.
There are some amazing technologies coming in in efficiency. I went and talked to an organization called SIPs, Structural Integrated Panels, last week. They had their national convention. These are panels that are sort of a foam core with a wood fiber sandwich on both sides that are a structural panel you can build a house with so you don't need studs. You build these things, and you can get 20 to 30 percent less heating cost for your home. This is an invention of folks in America, and we can build part of the construction industry by doing that. So I really appreciate your focus on efficiency.
I want you to know, you mentioned wind. I remember talking to, in the course of writing this book Mr. Udall referred to, I fell across a story out of Missouri, Mr. Cleaver's State. And there was a quote by this farmer that said something to the effect like, Man, there is nothing better than sitting there watching that turbine go around, and I just count the money every time the blade goes around. Because they get paid by the utility to put the turbine in the field. That's a good way to do it.
So I would like to yield to Mr. Cleaver for his observations.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. That is an important point. I think the good news we can share with Americans is that there are a lot less people in this Congress than there used to be who believe it is a hoax, and that is, in part, because they have read the science. People are seeing it with their own eyes. Now they are hearing from their constituents, frankly, and they are hearing from their own scientists.
I just want to read this NASA report that just came out last week, and it talked about the urgency. Mr. Cleaver, you said, we don't have a lot of time to deal with this; we don't have 50 years to deal with this.
This report said that basically there are two ways we can go. We can go the business as usual approach, or we can have a second approach, an alternative approach to reduce our CO
2. Basically this report said that with another decade of business as usual, it becomes impractical to achieve the alternative scenario because of the energy infrastructure that would be in place. This was a quote from Mr. Hansen of NASA, basically meaning we have about 10 years to change course here a little bit to have more essential efficiencies, to have more clean energy, to put our minds together to figure out how to have a cleaner energy future. So we don't have the luxury of a lot of time.
But again I want to come back to this idea of optimism, why I am optimistic about it. Mr. Cleaver mentioned Mr. Carnahan started a wind turbine farm that is doing great. They are earning farmers a lot of money. They are earning construction crews a lot of money to build these things. They are generating revenues in Missouri. This is happening all over the country, that tremendous growth, 15, 20 percent growth a year in this wind turbine wind energy.
I want to tell one little story that I think is typical of what we are going to see in America. A fellow in Seattle, Washington, named John Plaza who is an airline pilot. He was a good airline pilot, but he sort of got tired of reading books while he was flying back and forth. That is what they do in the cockpits, a dirty little secret we can share.
He decided he wanted to do something entrepreneurial. He started looking around for an idea that he could advance to create a new, value-added business, and he started to think about energy. He started thinking, is there a way that I could sort of develop a clean energy resource and make some money as well? He started to focus on biodiesel.
So this fellow, who was not an engineer, not a chemical engineer, not a mechanical engineer, didn't have an MBA, he literally went home and started to tinker in his home about how to make biodiesel out of various vegetable products. He hit on a way to make biodiesel that he thought was as good or better than anybody else.
He went out and raised a few dollars, rented a little tiny room in an old warehouse and bought the old beer vats from the Rainier brewery in Seattle, Washington. The Rainier brewery used to be the iconic beer in Seattle, Washington. He bought the old vats they used to brew beer in and he started to brew up biodiesel.
John Plaza is now CEO or CFO of a company in Grace Harbor, Washington, that is going to be the largest biodiesel plant probably in the world, or at least in the Western Hemisphere. They are under construction. They are going to be open for business some time next year, over a million gallons a year.
This is a product that reduces carbon dioxide, uses products we make, either canola seed or perhaps palm oilseed or perhaps soybean oilseed they are starting to bring in.
But the point is, here is an American success story of a fellow with an idea who wanted to find a way to maximize clean energy. We just need a way in Congress to help drive investment to those new clean energy sources.
I want to mention one thing about how Congress can help people like John Plaza to develop these new businesses.
One of the things we can do is next Wednesday we will be hopefully passing what is called a low carbon fuel standard. A low carbon fuel standard will basically say that the fuels we burn in America every 5 years will get 3 percent cleaner when it comes to carbon dioxide. And when we pass that low carbon fuel standard, it will create an incentive for investment to go to these businesses to develop these new higher, cleaner forms of biofuels.
You know we are using corn ethanol right now, but it is really just sort of the first generation. I liken it to the Wright brothers Flyer of aviation. It is just the first craft we can get in the air. But we need cellulosic ethanol and advanced forms of biodiesel that will produce a lot more product per acre and a lot more CO
2 savings, and we believe we can do this.
So here is one thing Congress can do, and I know there are many others.
I yield to the gentleman from New Mexico.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. The gentleman is entirely correct. Later this year the House will consider what is called a cap-and-trade system. Americans are probably going to hear that term a lot. A cap-and-trade system basically means that we will set a cap, a limit, a total ceiling on the amount of carbon dioxide that will be a pollutant going into the air a year in the United States of America. That is not too much to ask for our grandkids to say we are going to have a total amount of pollution that we put into the air.
Now we have done it for sulfur dioxide. We have done it for nitrogen oxide. We have done it for particulates. But there is this giant loophole you can drive a Sherman tank through for carbon dioxide.
So it is interesting. We have all these laws that set ceilings for the amount of pollutants that go into the air, but the granddaddy of all, the most dangerous pollutant there is in the world right now, carbon dioxide, there is no limit whatsoever. So Congress owes to ourselves and our grandkids to set some limit, a cap, on the total amount of CO
2 that is going into the air.
So then the question comes down, how do you allocate who is going to put the pollution in the air? Well, there are a couple of ways to do it. Congress can just hand permits out and we decide. But there is a better way, which is basically a trading system where these permits originally are allocated, but then businesses are allowed to trade them amongst themselves and establish a market for carbon.
Europe has done this. I have spent a week looking at how that system worked last week, and I can report that it has been successful to the extent that it has established a cap and a price on carbon. And once you establish a price on carbon, well, what do businesses do? They start figuring out ways to not waste energy and how not to put more pollution into the air.
Importantly, this cap-and-trade system is the most economically efficient way to distribute this resource. I got brainwashed by economics when I went to school at the University of Washington. Basically what we learned is that having a trading system, you end up having the most efficient way to find out how to drive economies and efficiencies in your system.
So later this year we will be considering a cap-and-trade system. We will set a limit, and it will be the first step in this road to really a clean energy economy.
Now I want to note something about a cap-and-trade system, and this is one thing I learned in Europe last week, it is not enough. It is only one tool in the toolbox. This is really important, because next week we will have before us in the Energy Committee a host of issues of ways to drive this clean energy future forward not waiting for this cap-and-trade system, issues like this renewable portfolio standard, where we tell people 15 percent of our electricity comes from clean standards, a green building standard, so that we require new building codes to have energy efficient buildings, a low carbon fuel standard so we use low carbon fuels, a whole host of measures like that. Those are very important. A cap-and-trade system is not enough.
In fact, it is interesting, in England, we met with a minister who basically they told us they might have had 15 million tons of savings in carbon dioxide from their cap-and-trade system, but they had 100 million tons savings in carbon dioxide by this combination of measures to have more efficiency in their industries.
So next week we will be taking some first steps in the road to a clean energy future that are very, very important, that are going to help these businesses grow.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Cleaver, I appreciate your comments, especially sharing the idea that I think all faiths share about this idea of responsibility to the creation and to our grandkids. I appreciate you bringing us back to that fundamental truth.
I want to address the issue of Greenland. Greenland is changing dramatically. I have had some people ask me isn't it true that Greenland has changed in the past as far as their weather and why is this a problem now. It is true during Erik the Red's time, Greenland did have more green involved in it. They had some agriculture in Greenland when you had this little warm period during the time of Erik the Red.
But what the scientists tell us is there is a huge difference between that situation because now we are going to drive carbon dioxide levels by 2050 twice what they have ever been for tens and hundreds of thousands of years and that those carbon dioxide layers trap energy and heat. It is going to make the days of Erik the Red look like the Ice Age.
So even though there have been wide fluctuations in the Earth's climate before, what the scientists tell us is the rate of change is unprecedented ever in the historical record and that we will go into a period that really is unprecedented as far as we know pretty much in global history. So the things you are seeing in Greenland are very much of concern, and I hope we are going to start working to move that forward.
I yield to the gentleman from New Mexico (Mr. Udall).
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. I think you have put your finger right on the nub of the issue. The President says he now, finally, and I suppose this is a small ray of happiness, he now finally recognizes there is a problem of global warming. But he expects volunteerism to solve this problem.
Well, I can tell you one thing we all know, you can run a bake sale on volunteerism, and maybe you can run a boy scout troop on volunteerism, but you cannot run a war on global warming on volunteerism. Think about this for a second. Here is what the President proposes. He thinks that he can just send a letter, nicely handwritten, to the CEOs of the oil and gas companies, would you kindly think about not polluting anymore.
Well, that would be just about as effective, if he simply tries to run that on a volunteer basis, to just rely on the good graces, and I have nothing against the executives of these companies, they are fine people, but just relying on them to volunteer would be just as effective as relying on consumers to volunteer whether you are going to pay at the pump when you pump gas.
Now you can just see the executives with their tin cup and their tithing cup out there trying to collect money from the pump. It doesn't work that way. You have to have some requirement that we both pay for gasoline and you have some measure to require these companies to reduce their pollution. That is a fair statement. It is required. It is the only way we are going to solve this problem.
Most importantly, it is the only way we are going to drive investment to companies like A123 Battery and Finavera Renewables which is going to have the first wave-powered buoy off the coast of Oregon in this next year to produce electricity from waves bobbing up and down.
So, Mr. Udall, you are correct. We have a responsibility in Congress to create these limits on CO
2 pollution. We are going to do that; and, when we do that, we are going to unleash the innovative power that Americans have. The same genius that got us to the moon is going to get us to a clean energy future, and our grandkids will not have to deal with global warming.
I would like to yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Baca) on an unrelated subject.
IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION PENDING IN THE SENATE
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
