Public Statements
Providing For Consideration Of H.R. 1591, U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, And Iraq Accountability Act, 2007
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 25, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 25, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, we here highly resolve that starting today we will no longer allow President Bush to make an infinite number of mistakes with an infinite number of our sons and daughters.
We know one thing, the President believes he has done a heck of a job in Iraq; the American people disagree. The people who are now doing our bidding in Iraq proudly are standing up for democracy, and we want some democracy here. We know that there is a difficult road to hoe in Iraq, but we know there should be an infinite wisdom in one source in America, and that is the American people.
There is no sovereignty, there is no king, there is no person who always does a heck of a job. When push comes to shove, we have got to listen to the American people, and the American people have spoken to us loudly. They have said it is time for the Iraqi leadership to quit fiddling around and form a government. And they know, as we do, as the retired generals who have come out full force and said that the American people are right, we cannot expect our service personnel to solve the political problem in Iraq. And now, 13 months have gone by since supposedly they formed this constitution and they were going to solve this problem of what to do with their oil, and they still haven't got an agreement. They are still fiddling around while our sons and daughters die.
Now, the troops and the generals understand that there is a message being sent by this resolution, and the message is to Maliki and the rest of the Iraqi leadership: You have got to stop fiddling around and form a government, and you have got to reach an agreement about oil. And until you do, there is going to be civil strife, civil war and Americans driving in the middle of that. This is a message to them: Solve this problem.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
