Public Statements
Wild Sky Wilderness Act Of 2007
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: April 17, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


WILD SKY WILDERNESS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, this is wilderness the way wilderness is supposed to be done. I want to compliment Congressman Larsen and Senator Patty Murray for their efforts to shepherd and to fine-tune this bill. If anyone wants to see how to do a wilderness bill, come see how this one is done to take into consideration all of the local comments to pare this down to where we have the muscle and bone in this wilderness right now.
Boy, is it the right place to do it. I have a picture here of Gunn and Merchant peaks looking north from Baring Peak. I climbed Baring Peak, that is really just a little scramble, a couple of summers ago. What is so amazing about the Wild Sky Wilderness, it is both wild, and it is in the sky. It is only about 55 minutes from downtown Seattle.
About 2 million people can drive to this incredible Wild Sky Wilderness in about an hour, and it is a hidden gem. What you can say is that we have a new hidden gem that has been protected in the State of Washington to join the other jewels in the crown of our wilderness and our National Park System in the State of Washington, and we invite people to come out and see it. And if you come, what you will see is a very virgin country very close to an urban area.
Millions of people drive by these mountains on Highway 2 and don't even realize how wild this country is right to their left as they are going east towards eastern Washington. There are hardly even any marked trails in there. So if you want wild close to an urban area, come to the Wild Sky Wilderness. It is a very, very wonderful place to go.
But there is a second reason I want to point out why this wilderness is so important. The day I went up to the Baring Peak, I just happened to meet a father and two of his sons he was taking for a hike. He told me this is one of the earliest hikes going into Baring Lake. And if you could see the smile on this dad and the sort of interesting looks on these two kids, you know what wilderness is about, because today when we establish the Wild Sky Wilderness, we are giving a gift to these kids and their kids and their grandkids. So these kids could be in the same position as dad has been, sometime, to have a wilderness to take their kids and their grandkids to, and they will have the same smile on their faces 100 years from now as this family did that summer day up on Baring Peak.
I want to thank the people who have been involved in this, Mike Towns specifically, a fellow who has been working on this for over 10 years. He is a teacher in Redmond, Washington. I know he will have a big smile on his face today, too. This is a great day for the continuation of wilderness in the State of Washington. It is just south of the Jackson Wilderness Area. It is a tradition that Congressman Larsen has followed and Senator Jackson, and a proud tradition of wilderness in the State of Washington. Congratulations.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, today I rise as a cosponsor of H.R. 886, the Wild Sky Wilderness Act of 2007 to commend the House for taking long overdue action on legislation to designate the Wild Sky Wilderness. Today's approval of this well-drawn, meritorious environmental legislation is long overdue. I want to thank Congressman Rick Larsen and Senator Patty Murray for their tireless persistence on behalf of their constituents as well as Chairman Rahall for his long standing support for the Wild Sky and for bringing this bill to the floor.
As a Member of the House Natural Resources Committee, I have been supportive of Congressman Larsen's attempts to designate this area as wilderness and was continually frustrated at the failure of the previous Chairmen of that Committee to move this legislation and disappointed at the reasons given for inaction. Those arguments were without merit.
One of the benefits of working on this legislation was learning of the steadfast support from my constituents, the new Wild Sky Wilderness will be a popular and well-loved addition to my state's heritage of protected wild landscapes. It is overwhelmingly supported by my constituents, who live nearby. Indeed, the new Wild Sky Wilderness is within easy access of the people in the entire Puget Sound region.
This wilderness area, which is located in Snohomish County, enjoys enthusiastic support from the county council as well as our elected county executive. It also has the support of an overwhelming number of local elected leaders throughout the county, Democrats and Republicans alike, as well as a long list of local Snohomish County business owners. Over the years that the Wild Sky Wilderness has been before Congress it has earned enthusiastic editorial support from the local newspaper, the Everett Herald, as well as the major newspapers in Seattle and across the state.
I want to emphasize to my colleagues that in my State this is as popular and non-controversial a proposal as it could possibly be. I am pleased to mention the support this legislation enjoys from the Administration, including
the Agriculture Under Secretary, who in response to my questioning said that the President will sign this bill into law.
On top of its stunning wild character, the 106,577-acre Wild Sky Wilderness is particularly noteworthy because it embraces lower elevation lands than most of the existing Federal wilderness areas in our State. As a result, the new wilderness will afford statutory protection to headwaters streams and watersheds vital to the survival and restoration of healthy runs of salmon and steelhead in the Skykomish River, for which the area is named.
Passage of this legislation contributes to the important goal of protecting a greater diversity of biological communities in our National Wilderness Preservation System--including deep, forested valleys as well as towering, ice-clad mountain peaks. This lower elevation wilderness land will provide greater opportunities for year-round recreational adventures for Washington State residents.
During the congressional consideration of this wilderness proposal, our committee has dealt with a question that all too easily can mislead those who are not familiar with the 1964 Wilderness Act and of the consistent approach Congress has followed over four decades now in applying the protection of that historic conservation law to additional portions of our Federal lands.
As Congress acts on wilderness proposals such as this Wild Sky Wilderness legislation, it is important that we take care to follow the legislative history of the Wilderness Act of 1964, which was a bipartisan product of our committee, and the precedents consistently laid down over the subsequent more than four decades as Congress has enacted more than 130 laws under both Democratic and Republican leadership that have designated new wilderness areas across our country.
It is clear that the Wilderness Act reserves to Congress alone the decision as to what Federal lands are ``suitable'' for designation as wilderness. Subsection 2(a) of the Wilderness Act specifies that ``..... no Federal lands shall be designated as `wilderness areas' except as provided for in this Act or by a subsequent Act.'' Subsection 3(c) further specifies that the President may make recommendations, but that ``A recommendation of the President for designation as wilderness shall become effective only if so provided by an Act of Congress.''
Despite this full history of Congressional action, some tried to question the inclusion of certain lands in the Wild Sky Wilderness because these lands showed fading evidence of past logging, old roads, and similar evidence of human use and impact. This objection, sometimes referred to as the ``purity theory'' of wilderness, is not based on an accurate understanding of the Wilderness Act and the intent of those who enacted it.
The new Wild Sky Wilderness includes some evidence of past human uses and impacts, including evidence of logging, old logging roads and logging railroad grades, and some culverts installed along those roads and railroad grades. In this way, it is no different than many wilderness areas Congress has previously designated as wilderness.
During a debate here on the House floor in 1969, Representative Morris K. Udall, the former chairman of our committee and himself one of the architects of the Wilderness Act, explained this practical approach intended by the authors of the Wilderness Act to the House:
It would be nice to have our national wilderness system absolutely pure and completely free of any sign of the hand of man. But the fact is that we are getting a late start in this business of preserving America's wilderness. Logging has occurred; wood roads have been opened and later abandoned; cabins have been built which in time have decayed and fallen down; in the interest of public health and safety and to protect the natural resources there may sometimes be lookout towers and patrol cabins. All of these are imperfections within the wilderness. Yet how often is man able to create or to establish anything which is truly perfect? Very, very rarely--if ever. [Congressional Record, September 24, 1969]
Mr. Speaker, these remarks by Rep. Udall perfectly explicate the practical approach that Congress has always followed as we choose lands for protection in our National Wilderness Preservation System. He went on to further explain that:
Congress has declared it is our national policy to preserve America's wilderness resource. Whether some prior existing imperfection--something less than absolutely purity--is to be accepted into the national wilderness system should be determined by whether its inclusion will significantly contribute to the implementation of this national policy of wilderness preservation or whether its omission will significantly obstruct this policy. [Congressional Record, September 24, 1969]
In keeping with the practical approach he has so cogently summarized, I want to emphasize that some of the low elevation lands within the Wild Sky Wilderness show evidence of past human use and impacts. We have made a careful judgment that inclusion of these lands is important to serve the overall purpose of wilderness protection. As chairman Udall would have put it, every acre in the proposed Wild Sky Wilderness exhibits ``substantially all the value of wilderness.'' We should preserve it.
I would also like to take a moment to pay tribute to Ms. Karen Fant, who devoted her life to preserving wilderness and wildlife in Alaska and the Pacific Northwest. She spent four decades organizing for conservation, working for groups including the Alaska Coalition, Sierra Club, Olympic Park Associates, Wild Sky Working Group, Washington Wilderness Coalition, and Save Our Wild Salmon Coalition. Her activism spanned many years, crossed state lines, and extended as far as Chongqing, China, where she dedicated herself to developing a strategy to address environmental degradation in Asia as a board member of the Seattle-Chongqing Sister City Association.
Karen was instrumental in passing the 1984 Washington State Wilderness Act, which sets aside over one million acres of new wilderness. She also initiated the efforts to preserve Wild Sky. I cannot imagine a better way to honor Karen's conservation legacy than for my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 886, the Wild Sky Wilderness Act of 2007. Passage of this legislation is the perfect tribute to Karen's legacy.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
