Public Statements
Bainbridge Island Japanese American Monument Act Of 2007
Floor Speech
By: Jay Inslee
Date: Feb. 6, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


BAINBRIDGE ISLAND JAPANESE AMERICAN MONUMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, today, when we pass the Bainbridge Island Japanese American Monument Act of 2007, we will be making a strong American statement. That statement will be that the power of fear will never again be allowed to overcome the promise of liberty. These are images we should never see again in America; and today, with the passage of this bill, we will make a strong American statement that they will not.
On March 30, 1942, the American Army, pursuant to an executive order by an American President, rounded up 227 Americans living on Bainbridge Island and marched them down the Eagledale Dock in Eagle Harbor of Bainbridge Island, Washington, surrounded by American soldiers, some having bayonets deployed. They were taken away to internment against their will, without trial and without recognition of their rights as citizens and their honor to serve America.
And now, today, when we are making the memorial on Bainbridge Island at the site of this dock, which is now being prepared and is under construction, we will be making an American statement that this cannot happen again.
The saying is ``Nidoto Nai Yoni, never let it happen again,'' and by making this part of our National Parks System, we will be making a statement that these images will never happen to any generation of any creed in America.
I want to note some of the people. This is a picture of a young fellow at that time named Frank Kinamoto. In this picture, Frank had his little tag. Everyone was given a little tag they had to wear with a number on it. Frank grew up to be a respected dentist on Bainbridge Island, and Frank has done personally what this legislation will do nationally. He has spent many years going around showing a collection of photographs telling young students why the protection of our civil liberties is critical and why we should never be overcome by fear again, and I pay respects to Frank and his efforts.
Another young woman at the time, who testified several months ago, who has been pivotal in this effort, Fumiko Hayashida, shown with her daughter here just before she was marched down that pier. Fumiko came to town, who is 95 years young, who is the oldest internee that we are aware of, to send Congress a message to make a national statement to memorialize this.
Now, there are three reasons I think it is important that we pass this bill.
First, although this was a tragic episode in American history, it was an episode involving patriotism because, and this is incredible to me, of the 227 people marched down that pier, 62 of them turned around and volunteered to serve their nation in World War II, and 62 of these people served with distinction. These people were the ultimate patriots. Having been sent to camps by Uncle Sam, to turn around and fight for the freedoms to which they were not entitled was the ultimate act of patriotism, and we honor them as an act of patriotism in this memorial.
Second, it is a memorialization of their neighbors. Many of their neighbors rallied around them. Many of their neighbors guarded some of their equipment to wait for them to come home. And Walt Widward, the publisher of the Bainbridge Island Review, was the only publisher on the western coast of the United States to editorialize against this violation of American values. That is something to memorialize.
But, most importantly, Nidoto Nai Yoni, never let it happen again. And this will be a statement to ourselves, to our children, to our grandchildren, that, when we are in fear in this country, we should never lose that anchor of American civil rights and civil liberties in respect to what we are as Americans.
We have gone through these days in the last several years. We have experienced fear that sometimes has infected the discussion here in the Chamber; and when we go through and deal with our fears today, I think it is well that we take a lesson from history of 1942 to hew to the power of liberty, rather than the power of fear.
So I am happy today that we will pass this bill that will make this part of our National Parks System. I will invite all Americans to come visit us in Bainbridge Island. We will invite the world to come see that America is a country that makes mistakes but learns and improves. And this is a continuation of that American tradition of improving the American value system. So I am happy today this House will take this step.
I want to thank the Bainbridge Island community and all of those who worked on this project. Clarence Moriwaki, who has led the effort on Bainbridge Island, congratulations. And congratulations to America for always being an improving country.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
