Public Statements
Governor Greitens Announces Paid Parental Leave Policy for State Employees
Statement
By: Eric Greitens
Date: March 13, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Greitens today announced a new paid parental leave policy for state employees in executive branch agencies. The new policy provides six weeks of paid leave for state employees who are primary caregivers and three weeks for secondary caregivers. He made the announcement by video on Facebook with Sheena, Missouri's First Lady, by his side.
He also added in a statement:
"Both Sheena and I are working parents, and we know how hard it is to balance work and parenting. That's why we're especially proud today to announce a new policy that allows executive branch employees to take paid leave after the birth or adoption of a child. The new policy provides six weeks of paid leave for state employees who are primary caregivers and three weeks for secondary caregivers.
We need to do everything in our power to support children and families in this state--and that begins on day one of their arrival in the home. Before today, a state employee who gave birth to or adopted a child would have to use sick time, vacation time, or take unpaid leave. And yet, everything we know about that crucial period after a child arrives in the home argues for giving parents time with their new children. Parents use that time to nurture and bond with the newest member of the family. Research proves that parental leave time is linked to better infant health and development, as well as employee retention and productivity. We believe that this policy will help new parents gain some stability during a happy and hectic time.
I encourage Missouri's other state elected officials, independent commissions, the legislature, and the judiciary to adopt similar policies for their employees. We're proud of this decision, and we know it'll be an important step forward for our state."

Source: https://governor.mo.gov/news/archive/governor-greitens-announces-paid-parental-leave-policy-state-employees
