Public Statements
Governor Greitens: "The People Sent A Message Loud And Clear: They Want To Work.
Press Release
By: Eric Greitens
Date: May 26, 2017
Location: Unknown

Today, the Missouri Senate passed the "Steel Mill Bill" to help bring jobs back to the state. It will now be sent to Governor Eric Greitens for his signature.
The closure of the Noranda plant in New Madrid led to hundreds of Missourians losing their jobs. A bill aimed at attracting companies to the area failed in the final hours of the regular Senate session. Two projects, an aluminum smelter and steel mill, that could create hundreds of jobs for the region were dependent on the passage of this legislation.
Although the House of Representatives had supported the bill with an overwhelming majority, a few Senators prevented its passage. Late last week, the Governor called a special session to secure its passage.
The Governor, along with Rep. Don Rone, invited hundreds of Bootheel residents and other Missourians to come to the capitol to urge Senators to support this bill. The group of about 400 supporters went door-to-door to Senators' offices, leaving messages about the need for jobs in Southeast Missouri.
Governor Greitens said, "The people of Missouri sent a loud and clear message: They want to work. They don't want welfare. They want to bring back American jobs.
We fought hard for this bill, and we are proud to stand with the people of the Bootheel. This is a great day for them, and for fighters like Rep. Don Rone and Speaker Todd Richardson, who pushed as hard as anyone for these jobs. When this bill died a few weeks back, some people in Southeast Missouri told us that they gave up hope that industry could return to their region. We won this fight for them, and for all the families who need quality, high-paying jobs. Senators saw the overwhelming support of the people, and I'm glad that they acted to bring more jobs and higher pay to Missouri. Our work isn't over: We're going to keep fighting hard for jobs, because our job is to fight for your jobs."

Source: https://governor.mo.gov/news/archive/governor-greitens-%E2%80%9C-people-sent-message-loud-and-clear-they-want-work
