Public Statements
Bipartisan Group of Governors Leading on Climate Change
Statement
By: Phil Scott
Date: June 2, 2017
Location: Montpelier, VT

Governor Phil Scott today announced that Vermont will join the U.S. Climate Alliance, a new bipartisan coalition of states committed to meeting the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement.
"Vermont is a leader in environmental policy and natural resource management. That's one reason Governor Charlie Baker and I encouraged the Trump Administration to remain committed to the Paris Climate Agreement," said Gov. Scott. "The President's decision to withdraw the nation from the agreement only strengthens our commitment and makes the work of states more important. I am proud to join this bipartisan group of governors and reaffirm Vermont's commitment to fighting climate change through the U.S. Climate Alliance."
Governors Scott and Baker issued a letter to the Trump Administration on May 17 encouraging the President to remain in the Paris Climate Agreement. Since then, Massachusetts and Vermont have been in ongoing communications regarding regional greenhouse gas reduction efforts.
Immediately after the President's announcement on Thursday, Massachusetts and Vermont discussed next steps -- including the potential for a multi-state coalition. Conversations with New York, Washington, and Massachusetts specific to the goals of the U.S. Climate Alliance occurred throughout the day on Friday.
"Growing our economy and protecting our environment by supporting cleaner and more affordable energy and transportation choices can go together," Gov. Scott said. "If our national government isn't willing to lead in this area, the states are prepared to step up. I look forward to supporting continued bipartisan cooperation on these matters and thank Governor Baker, Governor Inslee, Governor Cuomo and Governor Brown for working collaboratively on this important issue."

Source: http://governor.vermont.gov/press-release/bipartisan-group-governors-leading-climate-change
