Public Statements
Governor Phil Scott Signs Love to Protect Vulnerable Adults
Press Release
By: Phil Scott
Date: May 11, 2017
Location: Montpelier, VT

Governor Phil Scott signed legislation designed to help Vermonters with long-term care needs and protect vulnerable adults from financial exploitation. The new law updates the Long-Term Care Ombudsman statute to conform to the Older Americans Act (OAA). The law also creates a civil private right of action for vulnerable adults who have been subjected to financial exploitation.
"My Administration is committed to ensuring that vulnerable Vermonters are safe and protected from financial exploitation," said Gov. Scott. "That means ensuring our laws conform to federal laws designed to help them and providing access to the courts to stop or prevent financial exploitation."
Advocates and the Office of the Attorney General supported amending the new law to include provisions allowing financially exploited vulnerable adults to seek relief in civil court.
"At Vermont Legal Aid, we see increasing numbers of vulnerable adults becoming victims of financial exploitation. We are pleased that this new law will help this targeted population bring civil suits against people who have exploited them," said Jacob Speidel, a Vermont Legal Aid attorney who brought his experiences representing senior citizens to the attention of legislators.
"Vermont has a long, proud tradition of protecting its vulnerable citizens," said Attorney General T.J. Donovan. "We are pleased to have contributed to the passage of this important legislation," he said.
Assistant Attorney General Jamie Renner testified in support of the legislation. "Vermonters who are financially exploited should have a voice and be able to get relief," said Renner. "This new law will help accomplish that goal," he said.
The Older Americans Act of 2016 reauthorizes programs for FY 2017 through FY 2019. It includes provisions designed to protect vulnerable elders by strengthening the Long-Term Care Ombudsman program and elder abuse screening and prevention efforts. It also promotes the delivery of evidence-based programs, such as falls prevention and chronic disease self-management programs.
The bill was sponsored by Reps. Ann Pugh, Sandy Haas, Francis McFaun, Joseph Troiano, and Theresa Wood. Gov. Scott signed the new law on Thursday, May 4, 2017. The sections updating the Long-Term Care Ombudsman program take effect on July 1, 2017. The sections regarding protection of vulnerable adults from financial exploitation take effect immediately.

Source: http://governor.vermont.gov/press-release/governor-phil-scott-signs-law-protect-vulnerable-adults
