Public Statements
Phil Scott Highlights His Plans To Focus On Economy And Affordability In Pbs Candidate Commentary Series
Press Release
By: Phil Scott
Date: Oct. 11, 2016
Location: Middlesex, VT

Taking part in the Vermont PBS Candidate Commentaries series, Phil Scott detailed his commitment to focusing on the economy and affordability, and his plans to strengthen Vermont's economy as Governor.
Scott has made the economy and affordability cornerstones of his campaign, offering the most comprehensive economic growth plan in this election, with over 50 proposals and ideas to strengthen Vermont's economy, make Vermont more affordable and address some of our most serious health and safety challenges. The full plan can be viewed at www.philscott.org.
"I'm running for governor to strengthen the economy, make Vermont more affordable and restore faith and trust in Government," Scott states in the commentary titled #1 Priority. "To make Vermont more affordable, we need to get healthcare and property tax reform back on track, modernize state government, and make sure state spending never grows faster than our economy or your wages," he adds.
In a video on jobs and the economy, Scott tells Vermonters "I understand what it's like to live paycheck to paycheck while growing a family business and raising a family right here in Vermont." He explains that knowledge will guide his leadership and is why his economic growth plans "focus on rebuilding our economic foundation and strengthening our economic centers so young people have good job opportunities when they graduate, and working families and retirees can afford to stay here."
Scott has put forward numerous plans and ideas to grow Vermont's economy, and laid out how he'll restore fiscal discipline in Montpelier and Vermonters' faith and trust in state government. His 12-part Economic Growth Plan, and his plans for government modernization, truth in budgeting and fiscal responsibility, healthcare reform, transportation priorities and opiate action can be found at www.philscott.org.

Source: http://www.philscott.org/press-release/phil-scott-highlights-plans-focus-economy-affordability-pbs-candidate-commentary-series/
