Public Statements
Phil Scott's Weekly Campaign Update 9-30-16
Press Release
By: Phil Scott
Date: Sept. 30, 2016
Location: Unknown

Another great week on the campaign trail is in the books, as Vermonters continue to show enthusiastic support for Phil's economic ideas and message. Check out this week's highlights from the state's most energetic and hardworking campaign.
EARLY VOTING HAS BEGUN, ALONG WITH GOTV EFFORTS
Early voting has begun! Don't want to wait until November 8 to vote for Phil? Click HERE to find your town clerk's location or to request an absentee ballot. This election is important. If you're committed to voting for Phil -- and we hope you are because it's time for a leader focused on the economy -- get to the polls early to help ensure he's elected on November 8.
Getting out the vote for the election is critical -- we want all Vermonters' voices to be heard. To support these efforts for Republican candidates throughout the state, Phil will be at the Vermont Republican Party 2016 Fall Harvest Dinner on Wednesday, October 5. This event helps raise resources for Get Out the Vote efforts for the November 8 election. RSVP today by clicking HERE.
PHIL, A LEADER OF INTEGRITY, CONTINUING TO WORK FOR YOU
At a party celebrating the 70th anniversary of Dubois Construction, Phil announced that he will sell his share in the company if he is elected the next Governor of Vermont.
In his remarks, Phil shared his personal story and history with Dubois Construction, the "ups and downs," highlighting some of the challenges of owning a business and how a small, family-run business must tackle adversity in order to survive. These are lessons that have informed his leadership style and give him the kind of perspective we need in Montpelier.
"Though I would have never guessed it 16 years ago, I have come to understand that this work -- the work of making sure the voice of every working Vermonter and every family is heard in Montpelier -- is never done," he said. "I know this decision is the right one and will assure Vermonters that there is nothing more important to me than serving themand following through on the commitments I am making in this campaign to make the economy and affordability Montpelier's top priorities, and to restore the faith and trust that has been lost in state government in the last six years."



















Source:
