Public Statements
Issue Position: Making a Difference
Issue Position
By: Phil Scott
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

We have big challenges and big opportunities.
I'm running for Governor to lead Vermont forward, build a stronger economy, and make Vermont more affordable -- and because I believe I can make a difference.

We are all in this together. Building an economy that keeps and creates more jobs and lifts wages is going to require a leader who listens.
I've always welcomed all ideas and perspectives, regardless of party or philosophy. That's why I have support from colleagues across the political spectrum.
When you get right down to it, our ability to grow the economy, make our state more affordable, encourage small business investment, and empower our kids with the best education -- all of these priorities -- are tied to one common element: leadership.
It's going to take strong, courageous leadership -- the ability to listen, set priorities, build consensus, and manage projects -- in order to make progress in Vermont. These are the leadership skills I bring to the table.
With great respect for the obligations of the office, and tremendous optimism for our future, I ask for your vote.
If you give me the opportunity to serve you as Vermont's next Governor, I will not let you down. That is a promise.
Actions Speak Louder than Words
I will be a Governor whose first instinct is to listen to, and learn from Vermonters. Then, I'll always roll up my shirtsleeves and get to work.
Governing is about effective leadership that creates action. It's about including all Vermonters; rebuilding trust that their voices will be heard; ensuring state government works for us all; and that Vermont is a state where everyone who is willing to work hard has equal opportunities to succeed and prosper.
My leadership is driven by an unwavering commitment to pitch in and do the work that needs to be done. I succeed by inspiring others to help and I lead by example -- with no expectation of credit or compensation. This combination of humility and will is what I believe defines being a real leader and a real Vermonter.
I'm grateful to the Vermonters who share their struggles with me, and those who work with me to achieve creative, practical solutions.
I may not tout my record often, but I am proud of it. I hope, with your vote, to bring these principles and skills to the Office of the Governor.

Source: http://www.philscott.org/principles/making-a-difference/
