Public Statements
Phil Scott to Renew Pledge to Support Small Businesses
Press Release
By: Phil Scott
Date: Oct. 19, 2010
Location: Unknown

Lieutenant Governor candidate Phil Scott will reaffirm his belief that state government should increase its support of small businesses when he speaks at the Associated Industries of Vermont 90th annual meeting Wednesday, October 20 at the Capital Plaza in Montpelier.
AIV's annual meeting will feature a panel of industry leaders who will discuss their own experiences and insights into the challenges and needs of Vermont employers surviving and succeeding in Vermont in the face of competition in the marketplace.
The panel will be followed by addresses from the Republican and Democratic candidates for Governor as well as Lieutenant Governor, providing attendees the opportunity to hear their thoughts on manufacturing's role in Vermont's economy, the challenges facing Vermont employers, and what the state should do to help them succeed.
"One of the themes throughout my campaign -- and something that's resonated very strongly with individuals and groups throughout the state -- is my interest in seeing us be more self-reliant," Scott said, "When it comes to manufactured goods, we're very dependent on others. Walk into any store, and you realize how hard it is to buy something that's made in America. We need to strengthen our manufacturing sector in the US and in Vermont in particular."
"Manufacturing is a critical sector that deserves our support because every dollar of manufacturing activity generates 1 1/2 times that in other business activity," Scott said. "We should create thoughtful permitting reform, lessen the tax and healthcare costs small businesses face and make it easier for people to get a technical education."
The AIV meeting will also feature a presentation from, and an opportunity to interact with, the Blue Ribbon Tax Structure Commission, which will be issuing recommendations for reform of Vermont's tax code for the next Legislature to consider.

Source:
