Public Statements
Phil Scott Supports Vermont Businesses throughout His Campaign
Press Release
By: Phil Scott
Date: Oct. 18, 2010
Location: Unknown

With all of Vermont's statewide political candidates running on a platform of supporting Vermont businesses, Phil Scott is especially proud that his campaign is actually putting that principle into action.
Scott, who is running for Lt. Governor, has used Vermont vendors for all of his campaign expenses, from printing to advertising production. "I feel this is important, because the way you manage your own campaign says a lot about the way you'd manage the state if given the opportunity," Scott said. "Particularly in these tough economic times, it's discouraging to see so many campaigns sending money out of state."
The latest campaign finance filings, completed on October 15, show hundreds of thousands of dollars being spent with out-of-state firms in the last 30 days by the candidates for statewide office. The money was spent on such items as polling, printing, video production and payroll processing. This total did not include items such as credit card payments, PayPal processing fees, and Facebook advertising -- services for which it might not be possible or practical to use in-state vendors.
"Those are the only non-Vermont expenditures that you'll see on my campaign expenditure report," Scott noted.
"One of my central themes in this campaign, and one that's resonated strongly with Vermonters, is my interest in promoting greater self-reliance. The "buy local' movement is a huge part of that. How can we become more self-reliant as a state if we can't even do business with Vermont companies?" Scott said.
"I believe Vermont offers a wealth of high-quality products and expertise that can help Vermont candidates win elections. I have a lot of confidence in Vermont companies, and that's why I chose to support them throughout my campaign. I'll continue to support Vermont businesses as our next Lt. Governor."

Source: http://www.philscott.org/news.html
