Public Statements
Phil Scott Thanks Supporters, Looks Ahead After Primary Win
Press Release
By: Phil Scott
Date: Aug. 26, 2010
Location: Unknown

After receiving word Tuesday night that he had won the Republican primary in the Lieutenant Governor's race, Senator Phil Scott thanked his supporters and turned his attention to the next phase of the campaign.
"I'm thrilled that the voters have chosen me to represent the Republican Party in the Lieutenant Governor's race in November, and I'd like to thank everyone who supported my campaign with their time, their financial contribution, and their vote," Scott said.
"I also think the success of my primary campaign, and my strong grassroots support from Republicans, Democrats and Independents alike, showed that I can effectively represent a much broader segment of Vermonters than just the so-called "Republican Party faithful,'" he continued. "I heard from voters who took a Republican ballot for the first time ever this week in order to vote for me."
Among his strongest and most vocal supporters throughout the primary race was Senator Dick Mazza, a prominent Democrat, who serves with Phil Scott on the Institutions and Transportation Committees.
"In a state where so many of us call ourselves Independents, I think my style of leadership and my ability to work with all sides definitely appeals to that independent spirit, and is just what we need to take Vermont forward," Scott said.
One of the cornerstones of Scott's primary campaign was his Race to Victory Tour, where he traveled the state to reach out to disenfranchised voters to bring them back into the process. The tour raised awareness of the early primary election date, distributed hundreds of early voting and registration forms, and signed up many new voters.
"I'm very proud of those efforts, and that's something I intend to continue between now and November, and beyond," Scott said. "So many Vermonters feel left out and feel their voice doesn't matter in Montpelier. As Lieutenant Governor -- and in the meantime, as a candidate -- I intend to change that by reaching out to them, seeking their input, and involving them in the important public discussions about the best ways to create more jobs and make Vermont a more affordable place," he said.

Source:
