Public Statements
Issue Position: Survey Response - Voter Guide for People with Disabilities
Issue Position
By: Phil Scott
Location: Unknown

My father was severely injured when his tank was blown up during the D-Day invasion in WWII, and both of his legs were amputated. I was 11 when my father died as a result of his injuries, but in those 11 years, I learned firsthand the importance of determination, independence, and "quality of life". My father is my hero. I have taken the lessons learned from him and have tried to incorporate them into my personal and professional life.
As a way of reaching out to Vermonters during my campaign, I initiated my Race To Victory tour. I have been traveling throughout the State meeting with a broad range of businesses, non-profits, and - most importantly - individuals throughout the State. Many of the stops along the tour have included discussions with disability rights advocates and individuals with disabilities.
As the owner of Dubois Construction for over 25 years, I have ensured and strongly supported compliance with all ADA regulations relating to my business. I have been a State Senator for 10 years, and as Chair of the Institutions Committee and Vice-Chair of the Transportation Committee, I have continued that commitment to upholding the spirit, and not just the letter, of the ADA law. Through the Capital Bill, I have ensured the continued appropriation for ADA improvements to facilities such as armories and women's shelters. In addition, funding has also gone to such entities as the Vermont Center for Crime Victim Services, Austine School for the Deaf, Department of Corrections, and the Vermont State Hospital, as well as transitional, supportive and affordable housing for persons with disabilities.
Through my work on Senate Transportation, I have continually advocated for improved public transit services throughout Vermont and recently supported increasing fines for handicapped parking violations.
As a legislator, business owner, and an active member of my community, I have supported the rights of individuals to live, as my father did, with dignity and a sense of independence, and for each and every individual to reach his or her maximum potential.

Source: http://www.philscott.org/issues3.html
