Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Addresses Cyber Industry Leaders at Houses of Parliament
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 21, 2017
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today addressed cyber industry leaders of the United Kingdom at the Houses of Parliament in London. His visit is part of a week-long economic development and trade mission to Europe, where he is leading a delegation including representatives from the Maryland Department of Commerce. Joining the governor for his address to business leaders were Member of Parliament James Morris, Midlands Engine Chairman Sir John Peace, Professor Keith Mayes of the Royal Holloway University of London, and U.S. Embassy Minister Counselor for Commercial Affairs John Simmons.
In his remarks, the governor promoted Maryland's unique position as a premier location for international cybersecurity companies seeking to establish or grow their presence in the United States, extolling the state's highly-acclaimed skilled workforce and already robust cyber sector.
"When it comes to the rapidly growing cybersecurity industry, Maryland is the cyber capital of America. Nearly all of the cyber-related federal government agencies and military installations in the United States are located in Maryland," said Governor Hogan. "We are home to a world-class academic community -- we have the highest concentration of doctoral scientists and engineers in America, and we are second among all 50 states for concentration of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics employment. Our state is home to 17 universities and colleges that are designated as National Centers of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense, which is more than any other state in the U.S.
"We are ranked as the most innovative state in America, and we are number one in the U.S. for the number of IT establishments. In addition, more than 1,200 private sector cybersecurity companies are located in Maryland, from industry giants to established and emerging companies," he continued. "The primary goal of our trade mission in London is to showcase Maryland's assets and to let potential investors know that our state is worthy of their attention and consideration for investment. We hope to forge more international partnerships around the world to expand our global footprint, and we would love to start with our great partners and friends in the U.K."
The governor's address followed the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) strengthening the relationship between Maryland, the center of research and innovation in cybersecurity in the U.S., and the Midlands region, a premier cybersecurity cluster in the United Kingdom.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2017/06/21/governor-larry-hogan-addresses-cyber-industry-leaders-at-houses-of-parliament/
