Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Funding for Chesapeake Bay Water Quality Improvements
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 8, 2017
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced that the Maryland Department of Natural Resources has awarded funding to 18 recipients through the Chesapeake and Atlantic Coastal Bays Trust Fund to improve the health of Maryland's waterways. The Trust Fund directs critical grant funding to the most cost-effective and efficient water quality improvement projects in the state that result in the highest level of pollution reduction as a return of the state's investment.
Governor Hogan has continued to demonstrate his commitment to Chesapeake Bay restoration by becoming the first governor in Maryland history to fully fund the Chesapeake and Atlantic Coastal Bays Trust Fund the last two years. Additionally, after years of raiding by the previous administration, the Hogan administration has also fully funded Program Open Space, the state's premier land conservation and recreation program.
"We have invested the most ever -- nearly $145 million dollars -- in the Chesapeake and Atlantic Coastal Bays Trust Fund. Last year was the first time it has ever been fully funded in our state's history, and we fully funded Bay restoration efforts again this year," said Governor Hogan. "These 18 shovel-ready projects, totaling more than $21 million dollars of investments, will have a long-lasting, positive impact on the Bay and the environment."
The Trust Fund grants announced today will provide funding to watershed projects from Frederick to Talbot County, including stream and wetland restoration, innovative stormwater management, riparian tree buffer plantings and more.
"The Trust Fund allows us to engage local communities in discovering cost-effective and innovative approaches aimed at protecting our waterways," Natural Resources Secretary Mark Belton said. "Through pioneering partnerships, Maryland is realizing lower costs for the removal of nutrients and sediments, a benefit for the environment and taxpayers."
The Trust Fund is administered by the Maryland Department of Natural Resources and guided by the Chesapeake Bay Cabinet. Department staff works with local partners on stormwater infrastructure improvements and employing the latest technologies to improve water quality. Since its creation in 2007, the Trust Fund has supported more than 2,000 projects across the state, creating and supporting approximately 2,300 jobs.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2017/06/08/governor-larry-hogan-announces-funding-for-chesapeake-bay-water-quality-improvements/
