Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan, Baltimore City Schools Announce Two P-TECH Sites
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 14, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan, joined by Stanley Litow, president of the IBM International Foundation; Baltimore City Schools Acting CEO Tammy Turner; Acting Superintendent of the Maryland State Department of Education Dr. Karen Salmon; Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels; and University of Maryland, Baltimore President Dr. Jay Perman, today announced that Carver-Vocational Technical High School and Dunbar High School have been chosen as sites for new Pathways in Technology Early College high schools, more commonly known as P-TECH schools, in Baltimore City. Both sites are scheduled to be open for the 2016-2017 school year.
"Our administration is committed to thinking outside the box, and advocating for innovative solutions to ensure that every single child has the opportunity to get a world-class education, regardless of what neighborhood they happen to grow up in," said Governor Hogan. "With the announcement of Maryland's first two P-TECH sites, students in Baltimore City will have the chance to gain in-demand skills that employers need for the 21st-century workforce, and employers here in Maryland will gain a steady pipeline to skilled professionals."
The P-TECH education model, co-developed by IBM, is an innovative, nationally recognized approach that blends high school, college, and work experience into one educational program. In six years or less, students graduate with a high school diploma and a two-year associate degree in a STEM career field at no additional cost. These students will also benefit from career experience and mentorship in the workplace and will be first in line for skilled jobs upon graduation through partnerships with private sector participants. Each P-TECH school works with industry partners and a local community college to provide a curriculum that is academically rigorous and economically relevant.
"We thank the governor for his strong leadership in bringing P-TECH to Maryland," said Stanley S. Litow, president of the IBM International Foundation and vice president of IBM's Corporate Citizenship & Corporate Affairs. "P-TECH was designed to address America's unacceptably low rates of college completion. Given the chance, P-TECH students are succeeding regardless of race, income, or geography. P-TECH schools will help put Baltimore youth on a path to earn college degrees and good-paying jobs. Governor Hogan, along with state and city leaders, are providing city students with these opportunities, critical to their future and economic success. IBM is committed to grow P-TECH across the city, state, and nation."

Source:
