Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Appoints Dr. Mary Beth Tung as Director of Maryland Energy Administration
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 17, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced the appointment of Dr. Mary Beth Tung as the director of the Maryland Energy Administration, where she will further the Hogan administration's commitment to sensible and energy policies. Dr. Tung has been serving as deputy secretary over operations at the Maryland Department of the Environment since her appointment in March 2015.
"Dr. Tung has proven to be an instrumental member of the Department of the Environment and I am proud to have her join the Maryland Energy Administration team as its director," said Governor Hogan. "In her new role, she will be pivotal in helping our administration promote energy policies that lower Marylanders' energy bills, fuel the creation of jobs, and protect our environment."
As deputy secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment, Dr. Tung helped develop innovative solutions for the department to work more efficiently while providing guidance and support to its science-based efforts.
"Mary is a talented and hard-working team leader who always finds ways to improve environmental results and customer service," said Environment Secretary Ben Grumbles. "She has excelled over the last year in coordinating programs, projects, and personnel among the Department of the Environment, the Energy Administration, and other state agencies to achieve state energy and environmental goals."
Previously, Dr. Tung had worked extensively in the legal and scientific communities. As an attorney, she specialized in business law, intellectual property, and biotechnology patent law. She has also taught at the University of Rochester School of Medicine, and studied and performed biomedical research in immunology, pharmacology, and virology.
In addition, Dr. Tung earned a Juris Doctorate from the University of Maryland School of Law, a Ph.D. in biomedical sciences from Wright State University, a postdoctoral associate in pharmacology and virology from the Yale University School of Medicine, and a bachelor's degree in biology from the University of Cincinnati.
"I was honored to serve as deputy secretary, and am excited to take on this new challenge as director of the Maryland Energy Administration," said Dr. Tung. "As we work to help Maryland meet its efficiency and environmental goals, we must also think about the ratepayers in all of our decisions and making energy as affordable, reliable, and green as possible."
Dr. Tung's appointment takes effect immediately.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/05/17/governor-larry-hogan-appoints-dr-mary-beth-tung-as-director-of-maryland-energy-administration/
