Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Additional $60 Million in Fee Cuts
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 12, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced 155 fee reductions and eliminations across state government, saving Maryland businesses and taxpayers over $60 million over the next five years. The latest round of fee eliminations and cuts follows moves across state agencies last year to reduce fees, including tolls, by $270 million and other fees by over $50 million.
Through a series of actions in multiple state agencies, the Hogan administration will lower or eliminate 155 fees that are currently imposed on veterans, small businesses, single parents, homeless people, retirees, motorists, and many other groups. These cuts include the administration's proposal to reduce the fees for replacement birth and death certificates, which will drop from $24 to $10 following the passage of legislation earlier this year. Additional fees cuts include reductions to the cost of E-ZPass transponders, reduced admission to state parks for veterans, cuts to the child support collection fee, and a $15 million slash to the surcharge billed to every single Marylander who gets a phone bill each month.
"In January, we announced a measure to reduce fees across state government, saving Maryland taxpayers an estimated $71 million. Some parts of that package passed the legislature, but the General Assembly refused to go far enough, leaving it up to our administration to find additional savings that can quickly go into effect without the need for new legislation," said Governor Hogan. "Reducing and eliminating taxes, tolls, and fees not only helps to streamline state government, it has a direct impact on the livelihood of Maryland citizens. This is another step our administration is taking to follow through and do exactly what we said we would do. Our goal is to make it easier to live, work, and retire in our state, and continue to change Maryland for the better."
"Reducing and eliminating taxes, tolls, and fees not only helps to streamline state government, it has a direct impact on the livelihood of Maryland citizens," continued Governor Hogan. "This is another step our administration is taking to follow through and do exactly what we said we would do. Our goal is to make it easier to live, work, and retire in our state, and continue to change Maryland for the better."









Source:
