Public Statements
Veteran-Owned Firm Expands, Plans to Add 15 Jobs in Prince George's County
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 11, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Bourn Environmental, LLC, a small construction firm that provides environmental restoration services, has received a $50,000 loan from the Maryland Department of Commerce. The loan, made through the state's Military Personnel and Veteran-Owned Small Business No-Interest Loan Program, will assist Bourn Environmental with operational costs including equipment purchases and improvements to its offices. The company anticipates hiring 15 employees over the next two years.
"This loan will enable Bourn Environmental to grow and continue our work in ecological construction and habitat management in Maryland," said Christopher Perry, founder of Bourn Environmental and U.S. Army veteran. "As one of the few veteran-owned businesses performing stormwater management, stream restoration, wetland enhancement and shoreline stabilization for public and private entities, we are very grateful to the state for this helpful program."
Located in Mitchellville in Prince George's County, Bourn Environmental also provides consulting and advocacy and focuses on projects in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed and surrounding areas. The company was founded in 2014 by Perry, who served for more than five years in the United States Army.
"Maryland is committed to working with our veterans and military families to help them take the next step to success, whether it's starting or expanding a business or buying a home," said Governor Larry Hogan. "Through this program, we have been able to assist dozens of veterans with building their businesses and creating new jobs."
"Helping our veterans achieve success is critical to our state's economic vitality," said Commerce Secretary Mike Gill. "We look forward to working with more veteran-owned companies like Bourn Environmental to help them expand, add new customers and grow jobs."
The Military Personnel and Veteran-Owned Small Business No-Interest Loan Program was created in 2006 and is administered by Commerce in consultation with the Maryland Department of Veteran Affairs. Veterans who own a business, as well as active members of the military, are eligible to apply. The program also accepts applications from small businesses that employ military reservists and National Guard members called to active duty, as well as companies employing service-disabled veterans.
"The men and women of our Armed Forces leave the military with ideal skill sets to help them succeed as entrepreneurs," said George Owings, Secretary of the Maryland Department of Veterans Affairs. "We thank Mr. Perry for his military service and wish him well as he expands his construction firm in Prince George's County."
"Bourn Environmental is yet another example of a company growing and expanding in Prince George's County thanks to the vision and hyper growth, business-friendly environment that has been created by County Executive Rushern Baker," said Jim Coleman, President and CEO of the Prince George's County Economic Development Corporation. "The Prince George's County Economic Development Corporation is looking forward to working with Bourn to grow their business, hire county residents and develop environmentally sustainable projects that will positively impact the prosperity, health and welfare of our residents and businesses."

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/05/11/veteran-owned-firm-expands-plans-to-add-15-jobs-in-prince-georges-county/
