Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Six Grants for P-TECH Schools
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 6, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced planning grants to support the development of six new Pathways in Technology Early College High schools, more commonly known as P-TECH schools, in Maryland. Through partnerships between schools, local community colleges, and businesses, P-TECH graduates can earn both a high school diploma and an Associate degree in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math). These P-TECH grants will go to local jurisdictions, and total $600,000 statewide.
"Every child in Maryland deserves access to a world-class education and P-TECH is a truly innovative approach to improving education in disadvantaged areas," said Governor Hogan. "By blending high school, college, and workplace experience, P-TECH students will master in-demand skills and employers will benefit from a steady pipeline of skilled professionals."
Two P-TECH schools will open in Baltimore City in the 2016-2017 school year. Four P-TECH schools are set to open in the 2017-2018 school year, and are:
One public school in Allegany County, in partnership with Allegany College;
One public school in the Upper Eastern Shore--Queen Anne's, Talbot, and Caroline Counties--in partnership with Chesapeake College; and
Two public schools in Prince George's County, in partnership with Prince George's Community College.
Local departments of education will determine which high schools will become P-TECH schools, and each of those schools will receive $100,000 in grant funding from the state.
The P-TECH education model, co-developed by IBM, is an innovative, nationally recognized approach that blends high school, college, and work experience in one. In six years or less, students graduate with a high school diploma and a no-cost, two-year Associate degree in a STEM career field. These students will also benefit from career experience and mentorship in the workplace and will be first in line for skilled jobs upon graduation through partnerships with private sector participants. Each P-TECH school works with industry partners and a local community college to ensure an up-to-date curriculum that is academically rigorous and economically relevant.
"Students will receive one-on-one mentoring, workplace skills instruction, paid summer internships, and top consideration for job openings with a partnering company," said Dr. Jack Smith, Interim State Superintendent of Schools. "P-TECH graduates exit the program prepared to begin careers in the 21st century workplace, or to continue their education at a college and university."
While U.S. high school graduation rates have improved markedly, postsecondary completion rates and the successful transition of high school graduates into careers remains a challenge for many students. P-TECH was designed to address skills gaps in the labor force by preparing young people from all backgrounds for academic achievement and skilled, middle-class employment. IBM created the P-TECH program design that would link education to economic development and illuminate a pathway from high school to college and career.
For more information about P-TECH Schools, please visit www.ptech.org. For more information on Maryland's Career and Technology Education programs, please visit www.mdcteprograms.org.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/05/06/governor-larry-hogan-announces-six-grants-for-p-tech-schools/
