Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Delivers Remarks at the BWI Business Partnership's Signature Breakfast
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today delivered remarks at the BWI Business Partnership's Signature Breakfast. The governor was joined by Ricky Smith, executive director and CEO of the Maryland Aviation Administration and BWI Marshall Airport, as well as many other elected officials and representatives of local businesses, government agencies, and nonprofit organizations.
During his remarks, Governor Hogan emphasized the important role BWI plays in promoting transportation and economic development in Maryland, and highlighted some tremendous accomplishments from the past 15 months. Most recently, BWI experienced eight straight monthly records for passenger traffic and set a new all-time passenger record in 2015 with nearly 24 million passengers. To build on this success and further spur economic growth in the state, the Hogan administration is continuing to fast track important capital projects such as the D/E Connector, which will increase capacity for international air service and provide two additional gates starting this summer.
"BWI Marshall is an important transportation resource, a crucial economic development engine, and an invaluable asset for the entire state of Maryland," said Governor Larry Hogan. "Our administration is proud to support BWI and will continue to find ways to encourage its growth and success."
The BWI Business Partnership comprises major local and regional businesses and local, state, and federal government agencies representing the central Maryland region. This region has led the state in job growth over the last five years, and includes BWI Marshall Airport, the National Security Administration, Ft. Meade, and Arundel Mills Mall.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/05/03/governor-larry-hogan-delivers-remarks-at-the-bwi-business-partnerships-signature-breakfast/
