Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Visits Mary Harvin Transformation Center Ribbon Cutting
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: April 27, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today joined state and local officials, community stakeholders, and development partners for a ribbon cutting ceremony for the Mary Harvin Transformation Center in East Baltimore. Now completely rebuilt, the affordable senior housing and community center project was under construction when it was set on fire during the Baltimore City riots that occurred one year ago in April 2015.
Through the Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development, the state has invested over $14 million for site acquisition and construction of the center, including low-income housing tax credits and neighborhood revitalization program assistance. Following the fire and subsequent damage, the department worked quickly to reallocate 2013 low-income tax credits to 2015 tax credits to ensure continued funding and support during the adjusted timeline required for the rebuild.
"After last year's riots, our administration pledged to do everything we could to help revitalize Baltimore, and we pledged then, that the Mary Harvin Senior Center would be rebuilt," said Governor Hogan. "With the opening of this center, what was once a symbol of violence and destruction, is now a beacon of hope, and an example of the resilience that truly defines the amazing people of this great city."
The Mary Harvin Transformation Center brings 61 units of affordable housing for senior citizens with an on-site community center. The one-bedroom, one-bathroom units will rent at or below 50 percent of area median income, with six units set aside for persons with disabilities. The project was supported by the local community, especially members of Southern Baptist Church of Baltimore and pastor, Dr. Donté L. Hickman Sr. Pastor Hickman helped to establish the Mary Harvin Transformation Center Community Development Corporation and has been heavily involved in revitalization efforts of East Baltimore.
The center also received support and funding from the City of Baltimore and its Department of Housing, Capital One Bank, and Hudson Housing Capital. Woda Group Inc. was chief developer for the project, Harkins Builders, Inc. of Marriottsville, Maryland was the general contractor and the property is managed by Edgewood Management Corporation of Silver Spring, Maryland.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/04/27/governor-larry-hogan-visits-mary-harvin-transformation-center-ribbon-cutting/
