Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces New State Parks Partnership
Statement
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: April 22, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

In recognition of the National Park Service's Centennial celebration, Governor Larry Hogan and Department of Natural Resources Secretary Mark Belton announced today that the Maryland Park Service will honor the national "Every Kid in a Park" program. Through this initiative, which provides complimentary national park admission to fourth grade students and their families, Maryland will now accept the pass for admission to state parks. The Earth Day announcement was made during a National Park Week visit to Assateague Island National Seashore and tour of Assateague State Park.
"The National Parks Service is an important partner for Maryland, not just here on Assateague Island but across the state, from the Appalachian National Scenic Trail to the new Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad State Park," said Governor Hogan. "I am very pleased that the state can participate in this fantastic educational program and I encourage everyone to visit Maryland this summer to take advantage of our beloved bays and world-renowned parks."
The Maryland Park Service will accept the National Park Service's "Every Kid in a Park" pass now through Aug. 31 at all 72 state parks. The purpose of the national program is to increase accessibility to public lands and waters for children -- primarily 9-10 years of age -- and their families. The pass will provide free admission to Maryland state parks but will not cover additional amenities, such as camping, boat rentals, or staff-led tours.
"This program will cultivate, develop, and engage the next generation of environmental advocates, leaders, and stewards," Secretary Belton said. "Educating and engaging our students and youth about our natural world is critically important, especially during this developmental period. Connecting more children with nature is and will remain a top priority for the department as we continue to look for innovative ways to enhance and increase public access to our lands and waters."

Source:
