Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Signs Three Bills Into Law
Statement
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: April 4, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan was today joined by Senate President Mike Miller and Speaker of the House Michael Busch for a bill signing ceremony at the State House in Annapolis. The Harford County Deputy Sheriffs Dailey and Logsdon Benefits Memorial Act was signed, which increases the maximum age that children of law enforcement officers who die in the line of duty are eligible to receive state pension death benefits.
"Marylanders were incredibly saddened by the tragic loss of two of our heroes -- Harford County Sheriff's Deputies Pat Dailey and Mark Logsdon," said Governor Hogan. "Our state owes families like theirs a tremendous debt, and providing these extended benefits is one small way that we can honor their sacrifice."
Additionally SB 323, the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Act, was signed, which requires Maryland to reduce statewide gas emissions by 40 percent from 2006 levels by 2030. This bipartisan legislation, which was supported by the Maryland Departments of the Environment, Agriculture, and Natural Resources, is based on a recommendation of the Maryland Commission on Climate Change and enhances the 2009 Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Act. This law is expected to help create and maintain tens of thousands of jobs and represents a balanced, science-based approach to reduce carbon pollution.
HB 462 was also signed, fulfilling Governor Hogan's commitment to restore funding for Program Open Space. This legislation returns $60 million over the next two fiscal years to this nationally renowned preservation program. In addition to helping fund parks and conversation projects throughout the state, the bill also strengthens the program by increasing the annual Program Open Space funding for Baltimore City to $6 million, and creates a repayment plan to restore funds that had been transferred into the general fund by previous administrations.
"These important pieces of legislation will have a profound impact on preserving our environment, while creating jobs and protecting our business community," said Governor Hogan. "I want to thank both the Senate and House for supporting our initiatives."

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/04/04/governor-larry-hogan-signs-three-bills-into-law/
