Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Delivers Remarks, Publicly Introduces the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg/Kimmel Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy
Statement
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: March 29, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today delivered remarks and helped to publicly introduce the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg/Kimmel Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy. He was joined by Vice President Joseph Biden, Johns Hopkins University President Ronald Daniels, Johns Hopkins Medicine Dean and CEO Dr. Paul Rothman, Michael Bloomberg, and many other donors, staff, patients, and students.
"Over the course of my own cancer treatment, I met so many amazing fellow patients and families fighting tougher battles than my own," said Governor Hogan. "It's because of them that I will continue to stand with all those who are fighting this terrible disease -- and that includes proudly supporting Johns Hopkins and the important, life saving work that will be done at the Bloomberg/Kimmel Institute."
[Sentence or two about the Institute, what its purpose is, how it will help, "groundbreaking impact that the Bloomberg/Kimmel Institute will have on the treatment of cancer"]. The state of Maryland and the Johns Hopkins University have played a central role in the history of medicine. The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine was the first research university in the United States, and Johns Hopkins Hospital is widely regarded as one of the world's greatest hospitals and the founding institution of modern American medicine.
Since Governor Hogan was diagnosed with stage III non-Hodgkin lymphoma in June, 2015, he has participated in numerous cancer outreach events. The governor has signed three statewide proclamations declaring September Blood Cancer Awareness Month and Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, and October Breast Cancer Awareness Month in Maryland. The governor's office also partnered with the American Red Cross, Delete Blood Cancer, and There Goes My Hero to host a blood drive and bone marrow registry at the State House.
In addition, the governor has attended Baltimore Orioles, Washington Redskins, and Baltimore Ravens games with childhood cancer patients from the Ronald McDonald House, the Cool Kids Campaign, and the University of Maryland Medical Center to raise awareness for pediatric and blood cancer.
In June, Governor Hogan started HoganStrong to raise awareness and resources for cancer-fighting organizations.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/03/29/governor-larry-hogan-delivers-remarks-publicly-introduces-the-johns-hopkins-bloombergkimmel-institute-for-cancer-immunotherapy/
