Public Statements
Governor Hogan Announces Project Schedule to Replace 57-Year-Old Structurally Deficient MD 234 Bridge
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Feb. 27, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Standing along Stines Store Road at MD 234, Governor Larry Hogan today announced the project schedule for the newly funded $3 million replacement of the MD 234 bridge over Gilbert Run Swamp to improve safety for the 5,642 drivers that use it every day. The MD 234 project also will widen the road over Gilbert Run Swamp in Charles County. The construction project is part of the Hogan Administration's $1.97 billion investment in highway and bridge improvements across the state. The Maryland Department of Transportation's State Highway Administration will advertise the project for construction this fall. Construction will start in spring 2017 with the new bridge open to traffic in fall 2018.
"Our administration is committed to fixing every single structurally deficient state-owned bridge in Maryland, demonstrated today by our investment to rebuild the MD 234 Bridge over Gilbert Run Swamp," said Governor Hogan. "This long overdue funding to improve safety in Charles County is just one more way that we are changing Maryland for the better."
With the Gilbert Run Swamp Bridge in the background, Governor Hogan stood on the county-owned Stines Store Road Bridge that is aging and worn. After an on-site view of both bridges, the Governor reiterated his commitment to restoring highway user revenues for municipalities and counties across the State to provide jurisdictions funding to invest in their roads and bridges.
The Gilbert Run Swamp Bridge along MD 234 was built in 1959 and serves as a major east-west connector for Charles County motorists traveling between US 301 and the southern portions of Charles and Saint Mary's counties. Traffic on this bridge is expected to increase nearly 40 percent by 2035.
In keeping with engineering and safety requirements, the new bridge will have two, eight-foot-wide shoulders -- more than double the size of the current shoulders. Because no viable detour exists, traffic will alternate on one travel lane of the bridge, controlled by a traffic signal.

Source:
