Public Statements
Hogan Administration Assists Baltimore City Police Department
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Feb. 10, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced $475,000 in funding for programs to help assist the Baltimore Police Department fight violent crime and provide new and needed services to the families of victims of homicides. In addition, the governor has directed the Governor's Office of Crime Control & Prevention to dedicate funding for a new program to foster constructive relationships and dialogue between Baltimore City youth and the officers who are working hard to keep city neighborhoods safe.
"Finding new ways to prevent violent crime and improve police-community relations across the state and in our largest city is a top priority for our administration," said Governor Hogan. "We are proud to support the Baltimore City Police Department and provide them with some of the tools they need to fight crime, track down violent criminals, and deliver services to those who need it most -- the victims."
"I applaud the state for responding so favorably to our request to enhance public safety in Baltimore," said Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis. "Working together, we will ensure Maryland's flagship jurisdiction reduces crime and grows community partnerships."
The new programs include:
Victim Witness Coordinators at the Baltimore Police Department
Funding in the amount of $120,000 for three victim services coordinators to work with the Baltimore Police Department Homicide Unit. These coordinators will help the department in its work with families and friends of homicide victims, and keep in regular contact with those families and friends in cold cases.
Stationary License Plate Readers
Grant funding in the amount of $105,000 will dedicate several additional stationary license plate readers through the city to ensure that suspected perpetrators do not travel undetected before or after committing a crime.
Youth-Police Engagement Programs
With the goal of building trust between the city's young people and the officers who serve them, the Governor's Office of Crime Control & Prevention will make up to $250,000 of funding available for nonprofit community agencies to provide programs designed to engage youth and police officers.
These programs will be administered by the Governor's Office of Crime Control & Prevention, which works in partnership with agencies at the local, state, and federal levels to develop and implement effective strategies for reducing crime.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/02/10/hogan-administration-assists-baltimore-city-police-department/
