Public Statements
Choptank Transport to Expand Caroline County Headquarters, Add 130 Jobs
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Jan. 28, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Choptank Transport, a third-party logistics company that specializes in truckload freight, has announced an 11,000 square-foot expansion of its Caroline County headquarters facility. As part of the expansion, the company will incorporate large open spaces into the design of the building and add an additional 130 jobs. In addition, the company has also purchased a separate 4,000 square-foot building in the Town of Preston to accommodate the increase in employees. This marks the third expansion for Choptank in the last decade.
"We have been blessed with outstanding growth," says Steve Covey, Executive Vice President at Choptank. "Our strategy has been and will continue to be our results driven culture. Our employees' dedication and focus on exceeding customer expectations has allowed this growth. The new addition will allow for further investment into our culture through business intelligence and staff additions. Those additions will foster collaborative technologies that will allow us to successfully manage and grow in a logistics world that faces unprecedented requirements for over-the-road safety and cargo security."
"The growth of a company with a nationwide footprint like Choptank is a tremendous asset to the Eastern Shore and the State of Maryland," said Governor Larry Hogan, "Our administration is committed to helping businesses like Choptank -- a business that is thriving and providing the citizens of our state with great jobs and more opportunity."
To assist with the expansion, the Maryland Department of Commerce has approved a $25,000 conditional loan through the Maryland Economic Development Assistance Authority and Fund (MEDAAF) program. Additionally, the Caroline County Economic Development Corporation is providing a $2,500 conditional loan to help complete the project.
"Commerce is pleased to assist this rapidly growing business with its expansion, which will help attract new customers and drive sales," said Commerce Secretary Mike Gill. "Being able to work with businesses, large and small, and help them grow to the next level is one of the most important roles our Department can play."
"We are so proud to have Choptank Transport in Caroline County" said Angela Visintainer, Director of Economic Development for the Caroline Economic Development Corp. "They're a very innovative company with strong leadership. Their tremendous growth and success over the past 10 years has provided wonderful opportunities for their employees and the community as a whole."
Founded in 2000, Choptank Transport is nationally-recognized and has rapidly expanded during its time in Maryland. With six offices across country, the company serves the United States, Mexico, and Canada with its refrigerated and frozen transport, dry van, flatbed and intermodal services.
Choptank Transport is hiring sales representatives, logistics coordinators, software engineers, marketing managers, and more. Prospective job applicants can visit www.choptanktransport.com, click on Careers in Logistics, and look for the Apply Now link.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/01/28/choptank-transport-to-expand-caroline-county-headquarters-add-130-jobs/
