Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Commitment to P-TECH Model Schools in Maryland
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Nov. 23, 2015
Location: Baltimore, MD

Governor Larry Hogan, joined by Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake; Stanley Litow, president of the IBM International Foundation; Dr. Gregory Thornton, CEO of Baltimore City Public Schools; and Johns Hopkins University President Ronald Daniels, today announced his commitment to launch up to four P-TECH 9-14 schools in Maryland to help better prepare students for college and entry into the job market.
The P-TECH (Pathways in Technology Early College High School) education model, co-developed by IBM, is an innovative, nationally recognized approach that blends high school, college, and work experience in one. P-TECH schools offer students an integrated six-year education program that combines high school, college, and workplace skills required for 21st-century jobs. Graduates from Maryland's P-TECH schools will earn their high school diploma and a two-year postsecondary degree in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) from an accredited community college. These students will also benefit from career experience and mentorship in the workplace and will be first in line for skilled jobs upon graduation through partnerships with private sector participants.
"Every single child in Maryland deserves a world-class education, regardless of what neighborhood they happen to grow up in," said Governor Hogan. "By blending high school, college, and workplace experience, P-TECH students will gain in-demand skills that employers need in the 21st century, and employers will gain a steady pipeline of skilled professionals. This is a truly innovative approach to improving education in disadvantaged areas, and it is my hope that two of the P-TECH schools will be located in Baltimore City."

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/11/23/governor-larry-hogan-announces-commitment-to-p-tech-model-schools-in-maryland/
