Public Statements
Hogan Administration Launches "Before It's Too Late" Web Portal to Provide Resources, Raise Awareness of Opioid Crisis
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 15, 2017
Location: Annapolis, MD

The Hogan-Rutherford administration today launched "Before It's Too Late," a new web portal designed to provide resources and raise public awareness of the rapid escalation of the evolving heroin, opioid, and fentanyl crisis in Maryland.
"For nearly three years, our administration has been focused on combating the heroin and opioid crisis from every angle, including prevention, treatment, and recovery," said Governor Larry Hogan. "This new web portal is another tool to raise awareness and provide critical resources to all Marylanders so that we can save thousands of lives, before it's too late."
The new website, BeforeItsTooLateMD.org, is a one-stop shop for individuals, families, educators, and health care professionals to get the educational resources they need to prevent this epidemic from spreading--because education goes hand-in-hand with prevention. This public awareness effort also includes a social media presence on Facebook and Twitter.
"Education and public awareness go hand-in-hand with prevention, and are an essential component of our efforts to turn the tide in this heroin and opioid crisis," said Lt. Governor Boyd Rutherford. "The Before It's Too Late portal will provide addicts, family members, educators, and health professionals with the resources they need to get help, understand the disease of addiction, and reduce stigma, in order to save lives."
The "Before It's Too Late" tagline is derived from a PSA the governor released featuring actor Michael Kelly in March. The launch follows the Regional Opioid and Substance Abuse Summit, which featured Governor Hogan, District of Columbia Mayor Muriel Bowser, and Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe as speakers, and the first-ever Maryland Heroin and Opioid Educational Forum for students at Westminster High School in Carroll County, hosted by Lt. Governor Rutherford.
In March, Governor Hogan declared a State of Emergency in response to the heroin, opioid, and fentanyl crisis ravaging communities in Maryland and across the country. This declaration activated the governor's emergency management authority and enables increased and more rapid coordination between the state and local jurisdictions. The governor also announced $50 million in new funding to address the crisis, as well as the appointment of the governor's senior emergency management advisor Clay Stamp to lead the Opioid Operational Command Center, which is mobilizing all available resources for effective prevention, treatment, and recovery.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2017/05/15/hogan-administration-launches-before-its-too-late-web-portal-to-provide-resources-raise-awareness-of-opioid-crisis/
