Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan, Governor Terry McAuliffe, Mayor Muriel Bowser Participate in Regional Opioid and Substance Abuse Summit
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 9, 2017
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today was joined by District of Columbia Mayor Muriel Bowser and Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe as featured speakers at the Regional Opioid and Substance Abuse Summit. The summit, organized by the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments, is an opportunity for hundreds of area policymakers and public health and safety professionals from across the region to confront the many challenges associated with the growing heroin and opioid epidemic.
"Our goal today is to shine a spotlight on the heroin and opioid crisis in our region and to bring a heightened level of awareness to this rapidly escalating threat, which is tearing apart families, devastating communities, and killing more and more people every day," said Governor Hogan. "Ultimately, this is about saving lives -- that is the bottom line -- and it will take a collaborative, holistic approach to achieve that. Maryland, Washington, D.C., and Virginia will continue to be united as we work together to turn the tide in this deadly fight."
The event, held at the Conference Center at the Maritime Institute in Linthicum Heights, Md., was co-sponsored by CareFirst, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), Kaiser Permanente, and the Regional Primary Care Coalition. The summit included breakout sessions where subject-matter experts discussed many important aspects of understanding and combating the opioid crisis, including prevention, public safety response, treatment, and stigma.
Last October, Bowser, Hogan, and McAuliffe signed a regional compact, committing to working together to combat opioid "overuse, misuse, abuse, and overdose" in metropolitan Washington. In 2015, the U.S. DEA reported more than 52,400 deaths from drug overdoses nationwide -- the majority from use of opioids.

Source:
