Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Breast Cancer Awareness Month and Domestic Violence Awareness Month in Maryland
Statement
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Oct. 1, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today issued two statewide proclamations, announcing October as both Breast Cancer Awareness Month and Domestic Violence Awareness Month.
"Breast cancer and domestic violence are both serious problems that affect far too many people across Maryland and our nation," Governor Hogan said. "It's crucial that we raise awareness and educate the people of Maryland on the steps they can take and the resources we have available to help combat both of these issues."
As part of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Maryland is recommending that women be screened regularly for breast cancer. According to the American Cancer Society, breast cancer trails only skin cancers as the most common cancer among women in the United States. In 2015, about 4,730 Maryland women will be diagnosed with breast cancer and an estimated 810 will die of the disease.
"Through awareness, we can increase screening rates, improve health outcomes for Maryland women and, by extension, our communities as a whole," Governor Hogan said.
According to medical experts, regular breast cancer screening should begin at age 40. Every woman should talk with her health care provider to find out the screening tests that are recommended for her age and risk factors. And, because men also can be diagnosed with breast cancer, men with family histories of the disease are urged to share that history with their health care providers to determine if screening is warranted.
"This administration is committed and always will be to preventing and putting an end to domestic violence," Governor Hogan said. "If you need help -- or you know someone who does -- I encourage you to turn to one of the many resources we have here in Maryland."

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/10/01/governor-larry-hogan-announces-breast-cancer-awareness-month-and-domestic-violence-awareness-month-in-maryland/
