Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Formation of Maryland Department of Commerce
Statement
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Oct. 1, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced the formation of the Maryland Department of Commerce and appointed Mike Gill the state's first Secretary of Commerce. Formerly known as the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development (DBED), the new Department of Commerce will focus on attracting, retaining, and expanding businesses and creating jobs in Maryland. The department will also place a renewed focus on better serving the diverse industries and geographic regions of the state, and marketing Maryland's many assets to companies across the nation and abroad. To see the department's new logo, click here.
In addition to changes within the department to enhance business services and recruitment efforts, Commerce will take a larger role in coordinating a multi-state-agency effort to better respond to business issues. Secretary Gill, who has led DBED since January, will oversee a newly created Commerce Subcabinet consisting of six other state agencies -- the Governor's Office of Minority Affairs; Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation; Department of Transportation; Department of the Environment; Department of Planning; and Department of Housing and Community Development. Commerce will also work more closely with other state partners such as the Maryland Technology Development Corporation (TEDCO) and the Maryland Economic Development Corporation (MEDCO), with Secretary Gill serving in an advisory role to both.
"Over the last eight months, we have begun to deliver on our promise to ensure that Maryland is open for business. Maryland is now adding jobs at a faster rate than any other state in our region, but there is still a great deal more work to be done to get our economy back on track," Governor Hogan said. "The new Department of Commerce and Secretary Mike Gill will work to accelerate the positive trends we are now seeing and will make our state more responsive to business needs and more competitive in the global marketplace. Our administration is committed and always will be to bringing jobs and greater economic opportunity to the people of our state."

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/10/01/governor-larry-hogan-announces-formation-of-maryland-department-of-commerce/
