Public Statements
Governor Hogan Eliminates or Cuts Fees Statewide, Saving Marylanders $51 Million Over Five Years
Statement
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Sept. 15, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today delivered on his promise to roll back Maryland's high fees and put money back into the pockets of hard-working Maryland families and businesses. As part of a process that will begin immediately, eight agencies will reduce or completely eliminate hundreds of individual fees currently levied by Maryland's government. In total, the Hogan administration announced plans to reduce or eliminate 100 fees across state government, as well as 115 separate fees related to animal health diagnostics at the Department of Agriculture.
The Hogan administration will reduce fees paid by Maryland taxpayers by approximately $10.2 million per year, or approximately $51 million over the next five years. This includes the $5.9 million elimination of E-Z Pass maintenance fees, which took effect in July. Governor Hogan's Fee Rollback, which will proceed as a series of changes to state regulations and won't require new legislation, will not interrupt the delivery of services to citizens and business.
"We are very proud to announce another step our administration is taking to deliver relief to Maryland's businesses and struggling families," said Governor Hogan. "Earlier this year, I challenged my Cabinet to reduce or eliminate fees throughout their departments, and today we can announce that we are reducing or eliminating 100 fees across state government."
"Our entire focus has been making Maryland more competitive. By allowing Marylanders to keep more of their hard-earned money, rather than sending it to bureaucrats in Annapolis, they will have the chance to put those dollars back into our state's economy. No longer will Maryland's government ask "how much can we get?' but will instead ask "how much can we give back?'"

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/09/15/governor-hogan-eliminates-or-cuts-fees-statewide-saving-marylanders-51-million-over-five-years/
