Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Declares Aug. 30 -- Sept. 5 Overdose Awareness Week in Maryland
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Aug. 28, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Reaffirming the administration's goal of preventing substance abuse and overdose deaths, Governor Larry Hogan today issued a statewide proclamation declaring the week of Sunday, August 30, to Saturday, September 5, to be Overdose Awareness Week in Maryland.
"The toll that addiction and overdose deaths have taken on our communities, state, and region has been devastating," Governor Hogan said. "Our administration is committed to finding the best and most effective solutions to this crisis, and our Heroin and Opioid Emergency Task Force is hard at work developing comprehensive strategies to address this problem. I encourage all Marylanders to come together during Overdose Awareness Week, to support all of our families and citizens suffering from addiction and substance abuse."
In 2014, the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DHMH) reported 1,039 drug- and alcohol-related overdose deaths in the state. "Overdose Awareness Week highlights the significance of this public health crisis and seeks to create public awareness of the damage addiction and drug abuse inflicts on our families and communities," Lt. Governor Boyd Rutherford said.
Earlier this week, the Heroin & Opioid Emergency Task Force, chaired by the Lt. Governor, released its interim report.
During Overdose Awareness Week, communities will host such events as candlelight vigils, public art installations, and public hearings. The DHMH's Behavioral Health Administration (BHA) will host a naloxone conference to bring together stakeholders who work on overdose education and naloxone distribution in the state to share information on regulations and tools such as the state's Overdose Response Program.
Local jurisdictions and DHMH will coordinate additional events throughout the week. For more information about Overdose Awareness Week in Maryland, contact DHMH at 410-402-8590. For more information on the tools Maryland is using to battle our region's substance abuse epidemic, visit DHMH's website at www.dhmh.maryland.gov.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/08/28/governor-larry-hogan-declares-aug-30-sept-5-overdose-awareness-week-in-maryland/
