Public Statements
Heroin and Opioid Emergency Task Force Submits Interim Report to Governor Larry Hogan
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Aug. 25, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

The Heroin and Opioid Emergency Task Force, created by Governor Larry Hogan on Feb. 24, 2015, and chaired by Lt. Governor Boyd Rutherford, today submitted its Interim Report to the governor.
The Task Force--made up of 11 members with expertise in substance abuse, treatment, and law enforcement, including a mother who lost her daughter to a heroin overdose--advises and assists the governor in establishing a statewide effort to improve public awareness, access to treatment, quality of care, alternatives to incarceration for non-violent drug abusers, and law enforcement coordination.
The Task Force's Interim Report reflects the Task Force's findings, the ongoing efforts of its workgroups, immediate resource allocations, and preliminary recommendations. Specifically, the report includes 10 recommendations that can be put into place by relevant state agencies at little or nominal cost within just a few weeks. They are as follows:
Earlier and Broader Incorporation of Heroin and Opioid Prevention into the Health Curriculum
Infusion of Heroin and Opioid Prevention into Additional Disciplines
Heroin and Opioid Addiction Integrated into Service Learning Projects
Student-Based Heroin and Opioid Prevention Campaign
Video PSA Campaign
Maryland Emergency Department Opioid Prescribing Guidelines
Maryland State Police Training on the Good Samaritan Law
Maryland State Police Help Cards and Health Care Follow-Up Unit
Faith-Based Addiction Treatment Database
Overdose Awareness Week
The report also includes 10 funding announcements to improve access to treatment and quality of care, including expanding Kent County's A.F. Whitsitt Center, a residential treatment facility for adults suffering from chemical dependency, to a 40-bed center; providing community-based naloxone training and distribution; and expanding supportive recovery housing for women with children.

Source:
