Public Statements
Hogan Administration Debuts New, Efficient VEIP Self-Service Kiosk to Improve Convenience
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Aug. 21, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

The Hogan administration today announced that Maryland vehicle owners can now test vehicle emissions using a new, convenient self-service Vehicle Emission Inspection Program (VEIP) kiosk. Two VEIP self-service kiosks, one located at the Glen Burnie VEIP station and one located at the Gaithersburg MVA branch office, are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Jointly administered by the Maryland Department of Transportation's Motor Vehicle Administration (MVA) and the Maryland Department of the Environment (MDE), the new VEIP kiosk now works at the convenience of Marylanders--any day, any time.
"My administration is committed to making state government and its services more efficient and more responsive," Governor Hogan said. "Today's announcement demonstrates how we are expanding available technology to bring the residents of Maryland a faster, more convenient way to do business and help protect the environment--a win-win for all."
MDE Secretary Ben Grumbles today joined Deputy Transportation Secretary James F. Ports Jr. and MVA Administrator Milton Chaffee to demonstrate how the VEIP self-service kiosk works. The new kiosk is part of a one-year pilot program that uses innovative inspection technology to simplify the vehicle emissions testing process. Users simply plug a device into their vehicle's computer diagnostic system to determine whether their vehicle's engine is working properly and whether its emissions are meeting Maryland's environmental standards. The process takes less than 10 minutes. Users can preview a kiosk demonstration on the MVA website.
Model year 2005 and newer light-duty vehicles and model year 2008 and newer heavy-duty vehicles are eligible to use the self-service VEIP kiosk. About 900,000 vehicles on an annual basis, or 58 percent of vehicles tested each year, will be eligible to use the kiosk. The cost for the VEIP test is $14 whether administered through the traditional stations or the new kiosks.
The Federal Clean Air Act requires the testing of vehicle emissions, and in Maryland, vehicle emission systems inspection is required every two years. Although there are many sources of pollutants that contribute to ground-level ozone, automobiles and light trucks emissions remain the major source in Maryland. Keeping vehicle emissions to acceptable standards significantly helps reduce ground-level ozone.
The one-year pilot program will assess the operational benefits and public acceptance of the new technology. Environmental Systems Products of Maryland, Inc. (ESP) is the private contractor responsible for day-to-day testing operations. The VEIP testing network consists of 18 centralized inspection stations located in 13 counties and Baltimore City.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/08/21/hogan-administration-debuts-new-efficient-veip-self-service-kiosk-to-improve-convenience/
