Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan, Port of Baltimore Welcome Under Armour
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Aug. 11, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan and the Port of Baltimore today announced that the Port recently began receiving Under Armour imported goods on a new Asian container service through Evergreen Marine Corporation. The Baltimore-based sports apparel company will ship approximately 800 containers a year through its hometown port--another important milestone for both UA and the Port.
"This is great news for two of Maryland's most well-known institutions, the Port of Baltimore and Under Armour," said Governor Larry Hogan. "The Port of Baltimore is one of the busiest ports in the nation and ranks number-one among all U.S. ports in several cargo commodities. Under Armour is a true Maryland success story and is one of the most respected and leading brands in the world."
Recently, the Port of Baltimore was named as the top U.S. port for container berth productivity by a leading industry media company. The Seagirt Marine Terminal, the Port of Baltimore's primary container facility, includes 11 cranes, four of which are super Post-Panamax capable of handling the biggest ships in the world.
"The Port of Baltimore's continued emergence as a top U.S. port is an exciting development for our hometown, and Under Armour is proud to utilize it as our primary supply hub," said Brad Dickerson, Under Armour COO. We look forward to expanding our commitment to Baltimore and to playing a role in fueling growth in our region."
The Port of Baltimore had a record year in 2014 and saw 29.5 million tons of international cargo cross its docks at a value of nearly $53 billion. Baltimore is ranked as the top port among all U.S. ports for handling autos and light trucks, farm and construction machinery, imported forest products, imported sugar, and imported aluminum. Overall, Baltimore is ranked ninth for the total dollar value of cargo and 13th for cargo tonnage for all U.S. ports.
Business at the Port of Baltimore generates about 14,630 direct jobs, while about 108,000 jobs in Maryland are linked to Port activities. The Port is responsible for $3 billion in personal wages and salary and more than $300 million in state and local taxes.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/08/11/governor-larry-hogan-port-of-baltimore-welcome-under-armour/
