Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Signs Executive Order Establishing Maryland Redistricting Reform Commission
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Aug. 6, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today signed Executive Order 01.01.2015.21, establishing the Maryland Redistricting Reform Commission. The commission, which fulfills a commitment by Governor Hogan to address Maryland's redistricting process, will be made up of four members appointed by House and Senate leadership, as well as representatives from policy research and voter and government reform organizations. Governor Hogan directly appointed seven members of the commission, all of whom were announced today.
"Maryland is home to some of the most gerrymandered districts in the country, a distinction that we should not be proud of," said Governor Hogan. "For far too long, this political gamesmanship has stifled real political debate and deprived citizens of meaningful choices. Through the work of this commission, my administration's goal is to reform this process and put Maryland's redistricting process on a new path toward transparency, fair representation, and election integrity."
National publications have listed Maryland as having some of the most "gerrymandered" congressional districts in the United States. By enacting independent commissions, other states have greatly reduced the politics and partisanship that comes with redistricting, resulting in more election districts being based on population, compactness, and natural boundaries.
As part of their duties and responsibilities, the commission will review approaches of other states that have established independent, nonpartisan redistricting commissions. At least one public hearing will be held in each region of the state to allow Marylanders to submit their ideas on redistricting reform. In addition, a Web page, http://governor.maryland.gov/redistricting-reform/, has been established so citizens may submit their input online to the commission.
Based on the findings of the commission, a report will be submitted to the governor, senate president, and speaker of the house no later than November 3, 2015. Additionally, the commission will give a recommendation for a constitutional amendment on congressional and legislative redistricting that will be introduced as legislation during the 2016 legislative session of the Maryland General Assembly. The commission will end on November 8, 2016.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/08/06/governor-larry-hogan-signs-executive-order-establishing-maryland-redistricting-reform-commission/
