Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Encourages Marylanders to Participate in August 4th National Night Out Against Crime Events
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Aug. 3, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today encouraged Marylanders to participate in "National Night Out Against Crime," which will take place in counties and law enforcement agencies throughout the state on Aug. 4. National Night Out is a community-police awareness-raising event, held each year on the first Tuesday of August.
"National Night Out represents a commitment from our neighbors to celebrate our safety and crime prevention successes, as well as the continued partnership between the community and police to heighten public awareness," said Governor Hogan. "Whether it's a porch vigil or a community block party, I encourage Marylanders to participate in one of the many events being held across the state."
As part of the event, Lt. Governor Boyd Rutherford will participate in two National Night Out gatherings on Aug. 4: the first at Beckett Field from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. at 8511 Legation Road in New Carrollton, and the second at the Berwyn Heights Town Center from 7:15 p.m. to 8 p.m. at 5700 Berwyn Road in Berwyn Heights. Families are welcome to attend and will have the opportunity to meet with the police officers and volunteers who protect their community.
"This is a great opportunity to learn about local crime initiatives, meet with your local police department and participate in activities for the kids," said Lt. Governor Rutherford. "These events are about educating the public on what they can do to work with the police to help keep our neighborhoods safe."
This year marks the 32nd year of National Night activities across the country. Last year, more than 38 million people participated in the activities nationwide.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/08/03/governor-larry-hogan-encourages-marylanders-to-participate-in-august-4th-national-night-out-against-crime-events/
