Public Statements
Maryland Departments of Planning, Human Resources, and Lottery & Gaming Hold Day of Service Events
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 29, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

The Maryland Departments of Planning, Human Resources, and Lottery & Gaming today participated in events as part of Governor Hogan's "Maryland Unites: Day of Service" initiative.
Maryland Unites (www.marylandunites.org) was created in the wake of civil unrest in Baltimore in April, and has raised more than $500,000 toward relief efforts. The "Day of Service" initiative is an opportunity for state employees to offer their time and talents to benefit our citizens through community service. State employees will receive four hours of paid leave if they choose to participate and have the option to take part in the agency event or a volunteer activity of their choice.
"These days of service are about the spirit of giving back and sharing it with our state and our local communities," said Governor Hogan. "I am proud of the overwhelming response we have received to date and encourage all state employees to participate in an event with the shared goal of helping those in need."
On June 1, Governor Hogan announced "Maryland Unites: Day of Service," directing his Executive Cabinet to coordinate a volunteer event for employees at their respective agencies. Additional "Day of Service" agency-wide events are scheduled on Aug. 12 and Aug. 26.
Maryland Department of Planning (MDP) employees today volunteered at Paul's Place in the Washington Village/Pigtown neighborhoods in Baltimore, assisting the community center by serving lunch to its guests and to help in any way needed. After more than 30 years of service to the community, Paul's Place offers more than two dozen services and programs to low-income individuals and families in the Washington Village/Pigtown community. MDP's Jefferson Patterson Park and Museum (JPPM) staff, located in St. Leonard, volunteered at SMILE, an ecumenical ministry in Calvert County that provides food, clothing, educational opportunities, and financial aid to those in need. JPPM is collecting food and clothing for SMILE and personal hygiene items for Project ECHO of Calvert County, a provider of transitional shelter.

Source:
