Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces New Security and Senior Staff Appointments
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 24, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced three senior appointments within his administration. Walter F. "Pete" Landon, a retired Maryland State Police lieutenant colonel, has been appointed the new director of the Governor's Office of Homeland Security (GOHS). Mr. Landon worked for 30 years for the Maryland State Police (MSP), where he served in almost every discipline associated with criminal justice, before retiring on June 1, 2015. Landon will replace Director Thomas E. "Tim" Hutchins, who was appointed by the governor last January.
"Pete has a lifetime of experience in field operations, support services, emergency management, drug interdiction, and criminal investigation," said Governor Hogan. "Not only does Pete possess top-notch management skills, but he has undergone extensive training in domestic and international security and terrorism prevention. He is truly one of "Maryland's finest,' and will be an invaluable addition to the Hogan administration.
"I want to thank Tim for his tireless work as homeland security director," Governor Hogan continued. "Over the course of six months, he shepherded Maryland through some incredibly challenging times, including the Baltimore riots, and I will always be grateful for his friendship, service, and commitment to protecting our great state."
During his three decades with the MSP, Landon directly oversaw the Field Operations Bureau, where he was responsible for all patrol functions, aviation support, and special operations support of the uniform patrol functions. Landon commanded the MSP's Special Operations Division, which includes: S.T.A.T.E., the MSP's special weapons and tactics team; Canine Unit; Mobile Field Forces Motorcycle Unit; Underwater Recovery Team; Crisis Incident Negotiations Team; and Search and Rescue, among other units. While at the MSP, Landon worked directly with the Maryland Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) on the Governor's Crisis Management Committee, whose work resulted in the development of the Maryland Emergency Preparedness Plan, the state's formal strategy for preparing for emergencies.
Governor Hogan also announced that Roy McGrath, a senior adviser and liaison to the Board of Public Works (BPW), will now serve as a deputy chief of staff. "Roy is not only a knowledgeable and trusted adviser, he's a lifelong Marylander," said Governor Hogan. "He served on my transition team and was instrumental in helping me to build the very best Cabinet and staff. I am proud to announce he will join our team of deputy chiefs."
McGrath currently oversees the Governor's Policy Office in the State House, as well as the Governor's Federal Relations Office in Washington, D.C. As a deputy chief of staff, his portfolio will include departments and agencies related to state security, including the Maryland State Police, the Maryland Military Department, and the Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, as well as the Departments of General Services, Housing and Community Development, and Assessments and Taxation.
Finally, Deputy Policy Director Mark Newgent will succeed McGrath as the new liaison to the Board of Public Works, which approves the spending of all capital appropriations and nearly all state public works projects. Newgent will maintain his role as deputy policy director, providing policy analysis and guidance for the governor.
"I have every confidence that Mark will continue to keep the BPW on the path of fiscal responsibility and integrity, and I welcome him to the BPW team," said Governor Hogan.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/07/24/governor-larry-hogan-announces-new-security-and-senior-staff-appointments/
