Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Names Gregory C. Johnson State Highway Administrator
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 16, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced that Gregory C. Johnson, a 32-year highway veteran, has been appointed administrator of the Maryland Department of Transportation's (MDOT) State Highway Administration (SHA). Johnson comes to SHA from the Michigan Department of Transportation where he serves multiple roles as chief operations officer, chief engineer and deputy director.
"Mr. Johnson has spent his professional life in highway project delivery and I am confident he is exactly the right person to provide smart and business friendly transportation solutions throughout Maryland," said Governor Hogan. "We now have two national transportation experts in Secretary Rahn and Administrator Johnson, and their experience will help our state successfully complete the $1.97 billion in road and bridge projects just announced and more than $8 billion in highway projects during the next six years."
Johnson served as second in command of the Michigan Department of Transportation for six years, where he implemented innovations in project development and delivery, including: alternate project delivery, accelerated bridge construction, wider use of carbon fiber to lengthen the life of bridges, and e-construction. In addition to his leadership in using innovation to deliver complex projects efficiently with cost savings, Johnson has focused on safety, excellent customer service, enhanced partnering, and active traffic management.
As part of his focus on partnering, Johnson has been a staunch advocate for Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBE) throughout his career, speaking about DBEs at local and national forums. He also established a youth mentoring development program to employ urban youth and expose them to transportation-related careers.
Johnson serves on many national boards and committees, including: Conference of Minority Transportation Officials National Executive Board, American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Standing Committees on Highways and Research, American Society of Civil Engineers, Ferris State University Construction Industry Advisory Board, and National Operations Center of Excellence Executive Board.
Johnson has a Bachelors of Science in civil engineering from the University of Michigan and a Masters of Public Administration from Western Michigan University. Johnson plans to live in Baltimore City, where SHA is headquartered. His first day on the job is September 16.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/07/16/governor-larry-hogan-names-gregory-c-johnson-state-highway-administrator/
