Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Establishes Regulatory Reform Commission
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 9, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today signed Executive Order 01.01.2015.20 establishing the Regulatory Reform Commission. This commission, consisting of two co-chairmen and currently 10 members, will conduct a comprehensive review of Maryland's regulatory climate in an effort to identify problems that could potentially impact Maryland's business environment. Lt. Governor Boyd Rutherford will serve as an ex officio member of the commission. Additional members could potentially be added to the commission.
"For years, over-burdensome and out of control regulations were making it impossible for businesses to stay in Maryland," said Governor Hogan. "We promised a top to bottom review of all state regulations and policies to make sure that Maryland could once again operate under a fair, accountable and balanced regulatory climate. This Commission will look to see what regulations have outlived their usefulness, have failed to accomplish their objectives, or are so poorly written, implemented, or interpreted that they cause much more harm than good."
Public meetings in various regions of the state will be conducted to study the impact of Maryland's regulatory climate on the business community, relevant stakeholders and the public. Various sectors will be reviewed and analyzed including, but not limited to transportation, environment and land use, health care, business occupations and licensing, banking and financial services, capital formation insurance, labor and employment, agriculture, and tourism.
In addition to Lt. Governor Rutherford, ten members with a range of experience in various sectors representing regions across the state, have been appointed by the governor:
James A. Soltesz (co-chair) is the chief executive officer of Soltesz and responsible for all operations including day-to-day management decisions and implementing long and short-term plans. His role involves leading the development and execution of the company's long term strategy with a focus on creating lasting value for clients and staff.
Abba David Poliakoff (co-chair) is a member of the law firm, Gordon Feinblatt LLC, Chairman of its Securities Practice and Israel Practice Groups, and a member of the firm's Business Law department.
Susan J. "Suzy" Ganz is the CEO and Principal Shareholder of Lion Brothers Company, Inc., the leading designer and manufacturer of apparel identity. She has been responsible for transitioning Lion from a commodity producer to a recognized innovator in the apparel industry.
Jay Steinmetz is the CEO of Barcoding Inc., the nationally recognized leader in data-capture solutions. Steinmetz founded Barcoding, Inc. in 1997.
Henry Gilford III is chief executive of Gilford Corporation and oversees the corporation's strategic management, marketing, and business development. He also has executive responsibility for firm operations including planning, estimating, project management, marketing, staffing, recruiting, financial management, and field operations.
William B. Grant, Esq., CFP has been the chairman and chief executive officer of First United Bank & Trust since 1996.
Jennifer Rhodes is a lifelong farming resident of Queen Anne's County and currently is the Extension Educator, Agriculture and Natural Resources, University of Maryland Extension, in Queen Anne's County.
Joseph G. Baldwin has been a full-time employee for Reliable Contracting since 1986. He was named president/CEO in 2002 and represents the company's third generation of family leadership.
Howard "Blackie" Bowen has been the president of Ewing Oil Company Inc. since 1988. Bowen served as a director of Hagerstown at Centra Bank, Inc. He serves as a member of the Farmers Mechanics Bank Board and as a director of Maryland Public Policy Institute.
James T. Brady has been managing director of Mid-Atlantic of Ballantrae International Ltd., a management consulting firm, since 1999. He serves as a trustee of Stevenson University. He served as a director of Constellation Energy Group Inc. at Baltimore Gas and Electric Company from May 1999 to March to 2012. He has been a director of McCormick & Co. Inc. since 1998 and NexCen Brands, Inc. since June 2002. He also serves as a director of Swales & Associates, Inc.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/07/09/governor-larry-hogan-establishes-regulatory-reform-commission/
