Public Statements
Hogan Administration Announces Maersk's Return to the Port of Baltimore
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 1, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Lt. Governor Boyd Rutherford, along with congressional, state, and local officials, today officially welcomed Denmark-based Maersk Line, part of the Maersk Group and the world's largest container shipping company, to the Helen Delich Bentley Port of Baltimore. Maersk, which has a leading 15 percent market share of the global container business, began operating three weekly container services involving the Port of Baltimore earlier this year and will bring an estimated 31,000 new containers per year. The Port of Baltimore is included on Maersk services to the Far East, Mediterranean, and Northern Europe. Maersk's presence means that the Port of Baltimore now is home to the four largest container shipping companies in the world.
"It's a great day for Maryland with Maersk, the world's number-one container shipping line, announcing its return to the Port of Baltimore," said Governor Hogan. "Word is getting out that Maryland is open for business, and industry around the world is responding. The addition of Maersk Line gives the Port even more momentum going forward as we await the completion of the Panama Canal expansion and the arrival of larger ships."
The Port of Baltimore is known within the shipping industry as being one of the most efficient container ports on the East Coast, averaging nearly 40 container moves per hour per crane, one of the fastest and most efficient rates among East Coast ports. The Port's container facility, the Seagirt Marine Terminal, includes 11 cranes, four of which are super Post-Panamax capable of reaching 22 containers across a ship. Along with a 50-foot-deep channel and 50-foot-deep container berth, the Port of Baltimore is in a favorable competitive position to accommodate some of the largest ships in the world today.
"Today's global supply chains require stable, smooth-running transportation services that enhance supply chain integrity and improve productivity. With the Port of Baltimore, we will deliver dependable services and resources so our customers' supply chains stay on schedule and run efficiently. I'm pleased to have our TP2, TA2, and TA5 services calling at the Port of Baltimore," said Michael White, president of Maersk Line North America.
Combining both the public and private marine terminals, the Port of Baltimore had a record year in 2014 and saw 29.5 million tons of international cargo cross its docks last year at a value of nearly $53 billion. Baltimore is ranked as the top port among all U.S. ports for handling autos and light trucks, farm and construction machinery, imported forest products, imported sugar, and imported aluminum. Overall, Baltimore is ranked ninth for the total dollar value of cargo and 13th for cargo tonnage for all U.S. ports.
Business at the Port of Baltimore generates about 14,630 direct jobs, while about 108,000 jobs in Maryland are linked to Port activities. The Port is responsible for $3 billion in personal wages and salary and more than $300 million in state and local taxes.
About Maersk Line:
Maersk Line, a trusted global transportation company and a division of the Maersk Group, is dedicated to delivering the highest level of customer-focused, reliable global ocean transportation services.
The Maersk Line global service network penetrates the world's major ports and local markets directly and via dedicated feeder networks. This broad and extensive network is supported by a global staff of 25,000 employees in 374 offices, located in more than 125 countries. Resources to ensure exceptional service performance include: 3.4 million containers--including 10,000+ flat-rack and open tops, and over 610 container vessels that are among the most modern, secure, and environmentally friendly to sail the oceans.
Maersk Line is committed to delivering industry-leading, on-time delivery; faster and easier ocean freight processes and support; and environmental sustainability.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/07/01/hogan-administration-announces-maersks-return-to-the-port-of-baltimore/
