Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Kelby Brick as Director of the Governor's Office of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 30, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced the appointment of Kelby Brick as the new director of the Governor's Office of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (ODHH).
"Kelby Brick has dedicated his entire career to ensuring that deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals have the same opportunities and access as everyone else," said Governor Hogan. "Kelby is a tireless leader and advocate for individuals with disabilities and there is no one more qualified to take the helm at ODHH."
Brick led efforts in 2001 to establish ODHH, and his appointment represents a "return to home" for him, he says. "I've come full circle here and am excited about this opportunity to work with the governor to take ODHH to the next level," Brick said.
In 2013, Brick founded Brick Advantage, a consulting firm that works with and advises corporations and nonprofits. Prior to that, he was a vice president of Purple Communications, Inc., where he led the company's regulatory and strategic policy to break down communication barriers for deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals.
While at Purple, Brick transformed the telecommunications relay services industry--which provides full telephone accessibility to people who are deaf, hard of hearing, or speech-disabled--by establishing a system (later adopted by the Federal Communications Commission) that enables relay equipment to be interoperable and accessible with real local phone numbers and emergency access.
Prior to joining Purple, Brick was the director for law and advocacy at the National Association of the Deaf (NAD). As director, Brick successfully mobilized NAD in establishing precedents and landmark decisions in litigation and legislative and regulatory areas while increasing NAD's profile.
He is active in numerous advocacy organizations and served as a board member of the American Association of People with Disabilities as well as on various federal and local advisory groups.
In 2011, Brick was the first recipient of the Governor's Kelby Brick Community Leadership Award, which has been given annually ever since. Brick has a Bachelor of Arts in government from Gallaudet University and a law degree from the Temple University Beasley School of Law. He is the first deaf graduate of the law school.
Brick succeeds Lisa Kornberg, who has served as director of ODHH since April 2008.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/06/30/governor-larry-hogan-announces-kelby-brick-as-director-of-the-governors-office-of-the-deaf-and-hard-of-hearing/
