Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces $1.97 Billion in Transportation Funding
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 25, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Following through on his campaign pledge to provide funding for highways and state-owned local roads, Governor Larry Hogan today announced $1.97 billion for highways and bridges from Western Maryland to the Eastern Shore. The priority projects, which will get underway by 2018, include $1.35 billion in new projects going to construction and $625 million in preserved projects. The $1.35 billion in new projects includes $845 million for major projects and $500 million to fix bridges and improve roads.
"Today, I'm delivering on my promise to provide nearly $2 billion in funding to our highways and bridges across the state," said Governor Hogan. "This investment not only will move long-awaited highway projects into construction, so that Maryland families and businesses will benefit from safer, smoother roads, but also it will address every single structurally deficient bridge in the state. Building, maintaining, and fixing Maryland's roads and bridges is a top priority of our administration."
In addition, Governor Hogan also announced he has directed the Maryland Department of Transportation (MDOT) to move forward with a more cost-effective and streamlined version of the Purple Line that will connect Bethesda in Montgomery County to New Carrollton in Prince George's County. Under this scaled back version of the project, the state share in the Purple Line will be only $168 million -- a fraction of the original proposal, which would have cost the state close to $700 million.
"I have always said this decision was never about whether public transit was worthwhile, but whether it is affordable and makes sense," said Governor Hogan. "In reducing costs here, hundreds of millions of dollars will become available for other important projects. Our administration promised to chart a new course for Maryland -- one where economic development and jobs are our top priority. The Purple Line is a long-term investment that will be an important economic driver for our state."







Source:
