Public Statements
Maryland State Police, Maryland Capitol Police Partner with Maryland Food Bank for Maryland Unites: Day of Service Event
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 17, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

The Maryland State Police and the Maryland Capitol Police today partnered with the Maryland Food Bank Headquarters to sort, pack, and assemble food donations for thousands of families as part of Governor Hogan's "Maryland Unites: Day of Service" initiative. Maryland Unites (www.marylandunites.org) was created in the wake of civil unrest in Baltimore in April, and has raised over $500,000 toward relief efforts.
The "Day of Service" initiative is an opportunity for state employees to offer their time and talents to benefit our citizens through community service. State employees will receive four hours of paid leave if they choose to participate and have the option to take part in the agency event or a volunteer activity of their choice.
"These days of service are about the spirit of giving back and sharing it with our state and our local communities," said Governor Hogan. "I encourage all state employees to participate in an event with the shared goal of helping those in need."
On June 1, Governor Hogan announced "Maryland Unites: Day of Service," directing his Executive Cabinet to coordinate a volunteer event for employees at their respective agencies. Colonel William Pallozzi, superintendent of the Maryland State Police, and Chief Michael Wilson, chief of the Maryland Capitol Police, led their agencies as they participated today in the first of those events.
Additional "Day of Service" agency-wide events are on the following dates:
Wednesday, July 1
Wednesday, July 15
Wednesday, July 29
Wednesday, August 12
Wednesday, August 26
"Our troopers and civilian employees are committed to public service, whether it is through fulfilling our law enforcement mission, or finding other ways to serve and support the people of Maryland," Colonel Pallozzi said. "No one should be hungry in Maryland. Our partnership with the Maryland Food Bank provides a great opportunity for Maryland State Police personnel to help those who are hungry and have a direct impact on improving their quality of life."
"Public safety and community service go hand in hand," Chief Wilson said. "Both are about improving the quality of life of Maryland's citizens. All of us with the Maryland Capitol Police are glad to be making a positive difference by participating in "Maryland Unites' volunteer activities."
The Maryland Food Bank is a nonprofit hunger-relief organization, leading the movement to end hunger throughout Maryland. For more than 35 years, the Maryland Food Bank has partnered with communities across the state to distribute food to individuals and families in need. Through carefully crafted programs, the food bank aims to meet the immediate needs of Marylanders while simultaneously working to find long-term ways to reduce hunger statewide. Currently distributing more than 100,000 meals per day -- nearly 37 million meals annually -- the Maryland Food Bank will continue to expand its efforts until hunger ends. To learn more about the Maryland Food Bank, visit www.mdfoodbank.org.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/06/17/maryland-state-police-maryland-capitol-police-partner-with-maryland-food-bank-for-maryland-unites-day-of-service-event/
