Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Shimadzu Corp. To Open Innovation Center In Maryland
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 5, 2015
Location: Tokyo, JP

Governor Larry Hogan met with executives from Shimadzu Corp., a Kyoto, Japan-based multinational corporation, and announced that the company plans to expand its U.S. headquarters in Columbia, Md., by investing $20 million and creating an Innovation Center focused on new product research, development and engineering. The company has operated its U.S. subsidiary, Shimadzu Scientific Instruments, in Columbia since 1975 and currently has 200 employees in Maryland. The center, which will be developed over the next five years and create 25 new jobs, will enable Shimadzu to better align itself with new technologies being developed in the U.S., particularly in the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore metropolitan area. This meeting took place in Japan as part of Governor's Hogan 12-day trade mission to Korea, China and Japan.
"Shimadzu has been a valued corporate partner in Maryland since 1975 and we are very excited that this world-class company is continuing to expand and invest in our state," said Governor Hogan. "Through this new Innovation Center, Shimadzu will be able to harness the groundbreaking research being done in our region and deliver the next generation of analytical and measurement instruments to a global marketplace."
"The Innovation Center will house a team of engineers and scientists whose goal will be to develop close collaborations with universities, government agencies, and industry centers in order to capitalize on the cutting-edge research being conducted in and around the area," said Shuzo Maruyama, president of Shimadzu Scientific Instruments.
Founded in 1875, Shimadzu is a $3 billion multinational corporation with three major divisions: Medical Diagnostics, Aerospace/Industrial, and Analytical Instruments. In the United States, Shimadzu Scientific Instruments has a network of more than 50 locations providing local and regional sales, service, and technical support.
In 2014, Shimadzu Scientific Instruments opened a new Solutions Center at its Columbia location to enhance collaboration with customers and enable the company to more quickly respond to customer needs for new scientific instruments, software platforms, and applications. The 4,100-square-foot center showcases more than 30 Shimadzu scientific instruments, as well as provides space for more collaborative research, and helps the company to more quickly develop new software applications and focus-based solutions.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/06/05/governor-larry-hogan-announces-shimadzu-corp-to-open-innovation-center-in-maryland/
