Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces MOU Between University of Maryland and Chinese Academy of Sciences
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 5, 2015
Location: Tokyo, JP

Governor Larry Hogan today announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the University of Maryland (UMD), the state's flagship university and one of the top public research universities in the country, and the headquarters of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), China's top science and technology research and educational organization.
Signed on June 2 by UMD President Wallace D. Loh and CAS President Bai Chunli at CAS headquarters in Beijing, the MOU encourages joint research activities, student exchanges, and other related mutually beneficial activities. CAS is composed of 104 research institutes, two universities, 12 academies, and over 100 key national labs.
"As the leading public university in the nation's capital region and one of the leading research universities in the world, UMD has continually been at the forefront of collaborations with partner universities and academic institutions," said Governor Hogan. "With their shared traditions in science and technology research and development, and innovation, and entrepreneurship, UMD and CAS can build their respective strengths and make significant contributions to both of their institutions."
UMD and CAS have a long history of collaboration, dating back to 1980 when UMD signed its first agreement with CAS' University of Science and Technology of China.
This MOU was signed while Governor Hogan's delegation, which included President Loh and professionals from UMD, were in Asia as part of a 12-day trade mission to Korea, China, and Japan. The goal of this mission is to strengthen economic development ties with the region and foster positive relations between the Hogan administration and key Asian officials and business leaders.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/06/05/governor-larry-hogan-announces-mou-between-university-of-maryland-and-chinese-academy-of-sciences/
