Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Meets With Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 4, 2015
Location: Tokyo, JP

Governor Larry Hogan met with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Kantei, his official office and residence in Tokyo. The two leaders discussed the importance of liquefied natural gas (LNG) and magnetic levitation trains, and they agreed on a Memorandum of Cooperation (MOC) between the State of Maryland and the Government of Japan.
Specific areas of cooperation outlined in the MOC include high-speed rail, specifically Superconducting Magnetic Levitation (SCMaglev); LNG; life sciences; trade and investment; and academics. The MOC with Maryland will be only the second such agreement Japan has made with an American state, the first being signed with California in September 2014.
"I was honored to meet Prime Minister Abe today, and to discuss ways Maryland and Japan can work together on economic, investment, and academic projects important to the both of us," said Governor Hogan. "I look forward to exchanging ideas with the prime minister on the economic impact of high-speed rail services, promoting the life sciences, and strengthening the academic collaborations between our high schools, universities, and research institutions."
In addition, liquefied natural gas, most notably the completion of the Dominion Cove LNG Project in Lusby, Maryland, was a topic of discussion. "Cove Point is an economic win-win for Maryland and Japan," Governor Hogan said. "The project will allow for new investments, jobs, and tax revenue for Maryland, and a stable and competitive LNG market for Japan."
First Lady Yumi Hogan also independently met with Japan's first lady, Akie Abe, at the prime minister's official residence in Tokyo. During the course of the meeting, they discussed the importance of the arts and cultural exchanges in the process of improving the already-strong relationship between Maryland and Japan.
Maryland is home to more than 40 Japanese-owned companies. Governor Hogan has been in Asia since May 26 as part of a 12-day trade mission to Korea, China, and Japan, the goal of which is to strengthen economic development ties with the region and foster positive relations between the Hogan administration and key Asian officials and business leaders.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/06/04/governor-larry-hogan-meets-with-japanese-prime-minister-shinzo-abe/
