Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Commemorates New Under Armour Store in China
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 2, 2015
Location: Beijing, CN

Governor Larry Hogan, along with University of Maryland President Wallace Loh and Under Armour Managing Director for Greater China Erick Haskell, celebrated the construction of a new Under Armour retail store in Beijing, China.
Building on its reputation as one of the most dynamic sport and fitness brands worldwide, Under Armour has been actively expanding internationally, most notably in China. In 2014, the company had 71 global brand stores with nearly 50 of them in Greater China alone. Its stated goal in 2015 is to add over 100 global brand stores, with 75 percent of them in Asia.
"The goal of this trade mission is all about taking our "Maryland Is Open for Business' message to one of the fastest-growing economic regions of the world, and there is no company that better showcases our state's potential and business-friendly attitude than Under Armour," said Governor Hogan. "Under Armour is a Baltimore-based firm with a worldwide brand. I am very proud of its vigorous development in China, and its continued commitment to the state of Maryland."
"We could not be more proud that Under Armour, with deep roots in Maryland and now one of the fastest-growing and most innovative companies in the world, is continuing its rapid expansion into China," said University of Maryland President Wallace Loh. "The University of Maryland and Under Armour share a deep commitment to innovation and entrepreneurship, and have a long history of close collaboration with China."
"Under Armour is extremely proud of its Maryland roots," said Erick Haskell, managing director for Under Armour Greater China. "We are honored to have Governor Hogan's strong support, as China is a key market for our strategic growth."
As part of the ceremony and to signify Maryland's commitment to business and Under Armour's tremendous expansion in China, Governor Hogan imprinted his hand on the store floor and signed his name. A commemorative plaque marking the occasion will accompany this permanent handprint.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/06/02/governor-larry-hogan-commemorates-new-under-armour-store-in-china/
