Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Joins Maryland Companies, Universities for Signing Ceremony With Chinese Partners
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 2, 2015
Location: Beijing, CN

Governor Larry Hogan joined Maryland companies RTKL and Marriott International, as well as officials from the University of Maryland, College Park and the University of Maryland, Baltimore, for a ceremony during which agreements were signed with Chinese companies and educational institutions. Among the partnerships, Marriott International has agreed to work with R&F Real Estate Development in China to operate the 350-room Ritz-Carlton in Harbin; and global design firm RTKL signed an agreement with Beijing Thaihot Jiaying Real Estate Development Co. to provide design consulting services for the Shijingshan Galaxy Business Area. In addition, two emerging Chinese companies -- Shanghai Tongji Biological Product Co. and Ankang Shimao Biotechnology Co. -- announced plans to set up U.S. operations in Maryland's International Incubator at the University of Maryland, College Park, which is already home to a number of Chinese firms.
"We are pleased to welcome two new Chinese companies to the Maryland International Incubator and help them connect with new opportunities in Maryland," said Governor Hogan. "It is also exciting to see two iconic Maryland companies -- Marriott and RTKL -- ink agreements with Chinese partners and continue to expand their global reach."
"These two Chinese companies will join others already located at Maryland International Incubator from countries like Japan, Italy, and Israel," said Kai Duh, director of the Maryland International Incubator. "They plan to hire students and engage in joint research projects with faculty members as an important component of their foreign direct investment. They bring with them internship and research opportunities for the university community in addition to the economic impacts on our great Maryland economy."
In addition to the business partnerships, the University of Maryland, Baltimore signed an agreement with the Affiliated Hospitals of Qingdao University to explore scholarly and leadership exchange programs and also work together on a healthcare leadership training program. The University of Maryland, College Park signed academic partnerships with Beijing Municipal Education Commission and the Beijing University of Technology.
Maryland has long maintained a strong presence in China, becoming the first U.S. state in 1996 to open a trade and investment office in China -- the Maryland China Center. In 2014, China was Maryland's third-largest export market with $714 million in goods and services, and was the state's second-largest import market, with more than $3.1 billion. There are 19 Chinese-headquartered companies in Maryland, including Tasly Pharmaceuticals, a biopharmaceutical company in Montgomery County. More than 50 Maryland-based companies have locations in China.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/06/02/governor-larry-hogan-joins-maryland-companies-universities-for-signing-ceremony-with-chinese-partners/
