Public Statements
Governor Hogan Meets With Governors of Two South Korean Provinces
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 29, 2015
Location: Seoul, KR

Governor Hogan recently met with the leaders of two important South Korean provinces, Jeollanam Province and Gyeonggi Province. On Thursday, May 28, Governor Hogan met with Governor Lee Nak-yon of the Jeollanam Province, birthplace of First Lady Yumi Hogan. On Friday, May 29, Governor Hogan met with Governor Kyung-pil Nam of the Gyeonggi Province.
"I was honored to meet with Governor Lee and Governor Nam, leaders of two flourishing provinces in South Korea," said Governor Hogan. "This trip presents a unique opportunity and I am hopeful it will result in trade, investment, and tourism opportunities for both Maryland and South Korea, as well as mutually beneficial educational and cultural exchanges for our citizens."
Jeollanam Province has ties to several industries including ship building, marine biotechnology, environmental technology, agriculture, and eastern traditional medicine. Jeollanam Province has also established a number of organizations to improve its local economy including the Jeollonamdo Marine Bioindustry Center, the Jeollanamdo Bio Control Center, and the Jeollanamdo Development Institute for Korean Traditional Medicine.
Gyeonggi Province surrounds Seoul and is the economic powerhouse of South Korea, accounting for approximately one-third of South Korea's companies, workforce, and manufacturing. Gyeonggi Province is home to some of the world's top hi-tech firms including Samsung, Hyundai, Kia, SK Hynix, 3M, Simens, Bosch, and ASE.
Governor Hogan has been in Korea since May 26 as part of a 12-day trade mission to Korea, China, and Japan, the goal of which is to strengthen economic development ties with the region and foster positive relations between the Hogan administration and key Asian officials and business leaders.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/05/29/governor-hogan-meets-with-governors-of-two-south-korean-province/
