Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan And Secretary Holt Announce Second Phase Of "You've Earned It!" Initiative For Veterans And Military Families
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 25, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan and Secretary Kenneth Holt today announced a $20 million initiative that will give a boost to veterans and military families who are looking to buy a home in one of Maryland's 86 Sustainable Communities. The "You've Earned It!" initiative for veterans and military families offers low mortgage rates and significant down-payment assistance for active military and those honorably discharged veterans and veterans with a disability. The first phase of "You've Earned It!"-- aimed at qualified homebuyers with more than $25,000 in student loan debt -- was announced May 4.
"I am very proud of this new initiative, which helps our brave men and women in uniform and their families to achieve the American dream of homeownership and establish roots here in Maryland," said Governor Hogan. "The program is not only good for our economy, but good for our communities."
Department of Housing and Community Development Secretary Kenneth Holt added, "Owning a home helps families create a financial legacy for their children; it stabilizes and brings economic investment into the state's communities, and it puts the power of the housing market to work to revitalize Maryland's economy. We are pleased to offer this program to members of our military and recognize all they do to keep our communities safe and stable in these times."
Through the "You've Earned It!" initiative, the Maryland Mortgage Program is offering a 2.75 percent fixed-rate, 30-year mortgage and $10,000 in down-payment assistance to active duty military, including Reserves and National Guard, as well as honorably discharged veterans and honorably discharged disabled veterans. The "You've Earned It!" initiative is for a limited time until the $20 million allocation is exhausted.

Source:
