Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Signs More Jobs for Marylanders Act Into Law
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: April 11, 2017
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan, along with Senate President Thomas V. "Mike" Miller and Speaker of the House Mike Busch, today signed 120 bills into law during the first signing ceremony in the State House following the conclusion of the 2017 session of the Maryland General Assembly. The bills signed included top priority administration legislation to eliminate conflicts of interest for elected officials (HB 879) and enable the state to move forward with 73 top priority transportation projects (SB 307).
The final bill of the signing ceremony was the governor's More Jobs for Marylanders Act (SB 317), which was the centerpiece of his Maryland Jobs Initiative. The bill achieved nearly unanimous passage in both the House and Senate in the final hours of the session on Monday night.
"Since day one the focus of our administration has been on restoring Maryland's economy and putting more people to work. We have already seen incredible success -- we have added nearly 105,000 new jobs and lowered unemployment to 4.2 percent," said Governor Hogan. "This morning we are taking the next important step by signing the More Jobs for Marylanders Act, which will incentivize and encourage manufacturers to create thousands of jobs in the areas of the state that need them the most, like Baltimore City, Western Maryland, and the Lower Eastern Shore, while also offering benefits to both workers and job creators across the state."
The legislation -- which takes effect June 1, 2017 -- provides tax incentives for new and existing manufacturers to create thousands of jobs, along with additional workforce development initiatives that the governor supports. New manufactures opening shop in high-unemployment (Tier 1) counties would receive a 5.75% wage tax credit, a state property tax credit, and a sales and use tax credit for ten years. The legislation also waives state filing fees, and all incentives are contingent on the company creating at least five jobs. Existing manufactures that create at least five new jobs anywhere in the state would also receive the same wage tax credit.

Source:
