Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Rescinds State Of Emergency Executive Order
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 6, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced the rescission of Executive Order 01.01.2015.14, ending the State of Emergency in Baltimore City that was declared on April 27, 2015.
"Last week, Maryland citizens and the entire nation watched as Baltimore was consumed by violence and tragedy," said Governor Hogan. "The effort to restore calm and order to Baltimore was incredible and I cannot thank the community leaders, first responders, and all the men and women in uniform enough for the work they did to make it happen. Today we are pleased to announce that the city and its residents can begin to heal and rebuild in a peaceful and safe environment."
In response to the protests which began in Baltimore City on April 23, Maryland agencies began coordinating at the State Emergency Operations Center, which had been fully activated at the Maryland Emergency Management Agency.
On April 25, at the request of Baltimore City, Governor Hogan signed an Executive Order declaring a State of Emergency and activating the National Guard to address the growing violence and unrest. Immediately following this official action and in order to address the crisis in the most effective manner possible, Governor Hogan and his executive staff moved the Governor's Office from Annapolis to offices on St. Paul Street in Baltimore.
Over the course of next week, 3,000 Maryland State National Guard, under the direction of General Linda Singh and 1,000 allied law enforcement officers from around the state and country, including the Maryland State Police, under the direction of Colonel William Pallozzi, worked to restore calm and peace to Baltimore City.
During this time, Governor Hogan, Cabinet Secretaries, and governor's office executive staff worked closely with Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake and Police Commissioner Anthony Batts to coordinate an effective response to the initial riot and the largely peaceful demonstrations that followed. The governor also toured and met with the affected communities and businesses, including personally thanking the men and women in uniform who worked tirelessly to restore order to the city.
The total cost of responding to this crisis has yet to be fully calculated, but the state will be withdrawing $20 million from the Rainy Day Fund to cover part of the expense.
Approximately 250 businesses, 170 cars, and a number of homes were damaged during the riot that took place on Monday, April 25. Additionally, approximately 130 law enforcement officers were injured in the line of duty.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/05/06/governor-larry-hogan-rescinds-state-of-emergency-executive-order/
