Public Statements
Maryland Unites For Baltimore
Statement
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: May 1, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced that over $250,000 has been donated to charities helping in the relief efforts following this week's riots and looting in Baltimore City. In addition, over 2,600 volunteers have gone to Baltimore City to help clean up, and many more are joining in the governor's "Maryland Unites" effort to provide assistance, food, and donations to those directly affected by the week's events.
"I am so proud of our volunteers," said Governor Hogan. "People all across the state are coming to Baltimore, picking up bags and brooms and cleaning up, delivering food and supplies to those in need, donating their hard-earned money to charities, and just providing a shoulder to lean on during this tough time."
"Over 700 people have signed up to help through the Maryland Unites website, as well as through the Governor's Office of Community Initiatives (GOCI) website," said GOCI director Steven McAdams. "Through GOCI, the Governor's Office on Service and Volunteerism (GOSV), and the governor's Maryland Unites Web portals, every day, hundreds of Marylanders have asked how they can help. We are diligently working to help place citizens interested in volunteering with organizations requesting assistance."
Today, the Maryland Food Bank made deliveries to food pantries in the following areas: Mondawmin, Druid Hill, Pimlico, Forest Park, Union Square, Howard Park, and Irvington. An estimated 1,500-2,500 cases of food (approximately 31,500 -- 52,500 pounds) of primarily frozen chicken, canned goods, and water have been delivered. If more food is needed, approximately 30 pantry programs will get food shipments from the Food Bank over the weekend.
Governor Hogan launched the "Maryland Unites" Web page last Tuesday, as a way to provide information and encourage the public to lend a helping hand to the Baltimore community.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/05/01/maryland-unites-for-baltimore/
