Public Statements
Governor Hogan Launches New Initiatives to Maximize Resources and Results for Maryland's Children, Youth, and Families
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: April 21, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Today Governor Larry Hogan charged the Children's Cabinet with the responsibility of contributing to his goal of an economically secure Maryland by focusing on two new initiatives: 1) Reducing the impact of incarceration on children, families, and communities; and 2) Increasing the number of youth and young adults who are either advancing their educations or engaged in the workforce.
"In order to provide economic stability and opportunity for all of Maryland's children, youth, and families, I need you to work together to help build a stronger economy in our state," said Governor Hogan. "I am tasking you with developing, implementing, monitoring, and being successful in a Maryland strategy that will provide critical services to vulnerable families and children. Be results-driven in your thinking. Provide the best return on Maryland's investment."
"The Children's Cabinet will move aggressively to break down the "silos of government,'" said Arlene F. Lee, executive director of the Governor's Office for Children. "We will work across agencies and with other partners to ensure a more efficient and coordinated use of resources toward the common goals set for us by Governor Hogan."
It is estimated that on any given day, approximately 90,000 children in Maryland have a parent under some form of correctional supervision -- parole, probation, jail or prison -- and most reside in Baltimore City. One in 10 teenagers and young adults between the ages of 16 and 24 is either not working or not in school, with the highest percentages located in Worcester County, Caroline County, Baltimore City, Washington County, and Dorchester County.
The Children's Cabinet, established in 1988, is chaired by the executive director of the Governor's Office for Children, and made up of the superintendent of the Department of Education and the secretaries of the Departments of Budget and Management, Disabilities, Health and Mental Hygiene, Human Resources, and Juvenile Services. The purpose of the Children's Cabinet is to ensure the effective, efficient, coordinated, and comprehensive delivery of services.

Source:
