Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Attends Thompson Creek Groundbreaking
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: April 20, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today joined Thompson Creek Window Company CEO Rick Wuest, Senate President Mike Miller, and DBED Secretary Mike Gill in a groundbreaking ceremony for the new 117,000-square-foot manufacturing and warehouse facility for Thompson Creek Window Company in Prince George's County.
"For more than 30 years, Thompson Creek has been a leader in customer service and home improvement, and we are incredibly proud to know they call Maryland home," said Governor Hogan. "Thompson Creek is a shining example of what our administration wants for Maryland -- growing, thriving businesses that provide the hardworking people of our state with great jobs and a strong economy."
Thompson Creek Window Company, which has been in operation for more than 30 years, is a home-grown, family-run Maryland business and one of the top mid-Atlantic home improvement and replacement products companies. The company's products include replacement windows, doors, siding, and a clog-free gutter system.
In 1980, Thompson Creek began manufacturing energy-efficient windows on West Street in Annapolis. They quickly outgrew that facility and in moved to a location on Thompson Creek Road in Stevensville, MD. In 2007, the company moved into a 70,000-square-foot facility in Landover with a new corporate headquarters in Lanham.
As part of their business plan, Thompson Creek plans to retain its existing 330 full-time employees and hire 150 new employees for a total of 480 permanent full-time employees at its various locations by the end of 2021.
To assist with the construction of the new facility, the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development (DBED) has approved a $750,000 conditional loan based on project costs and job creation.
This $20 million project, which will house the manufacturing and warehouse operations, is being undertaken by Chesapeake Real Estate Group and includes $17 million for land acquisition and construction, and an additional $3 million for equipment and related infrastructure. The new facility is expected to be completed in 2016.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/04/20/governor-larry-hogan-attends-thompson-creek-groundbreaking/
