Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Gives Opening Remarks at Maryland's Second Annual Crime Victims' Rights Conference
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: April 7, 2017
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today welcomed hundreds of individuals who provide services and support to Marylanders who have been victims of crime at the second statewide Maryland Crime Victims' Rights Conference at Turf Valley Resort in Ellicott City. The Governor's Office of Crime Control & Prevention and the Maryland State Board of Victim Services sponsored the daylong event.
The conference provides valuable training and recognizes those who have contributed to the victims' rights movement in Maryland, and commemorates National Crime Victims' Rights Week--a weeklong initiative to honor crime victims and those who advocate on their behalf. The 2017 Maryland Crime Victims' Rights Conference provides opportunities to listen, learn, and network with speakers and peers about all emerging victims' issues and solutions.
"National Crime Victims' Rights Week serves as a reminder of the significant progress we have made in securing justice for victims, but at the same time it also emphasizes the need to continue our resolve, and to work together to create a system of justice that restores victims and strengthens communities," said Governor Hogan. "Together we have already accomplished so much, but there is still much more hard work to be done. To crime victims all across our state, I want you to know that with our administration you have a friend, and a strong supporter in the Governor's office, who will continue fighting on your behalf each and every day."
In 2016, Governor Hogan awarded over $46 million in Victims of Crime Act Victim Assistance federal grants, which was given to state and local agencies and nonprofit organizations that provide assistance, services, and treatment for Maryland citizens who have been victims of crime.
Earlier this year, Governor Hogan announced the Justice for Victims Initiative, a series of proposals specifically designed to help prevent future victims of crimes, stop repeat offenders, and protect Maryland's citizens. The Justice for Victims Initiative included: the Protecting Victims of Sex Trafficking Act (SB 308/HB 632), which was recently passed by the legislature and sent to the governor's desk for signature; the Repeat Drunk Driving Offenders Act (SB 312/HB 371), which was passed in amended form by both chambers; and the Repeat Sexual Predators Act (SB 316/HB 369), which is stalled in the House Judiciary Committee and Senate Judicial Proceedings Committee.
"It is an honor to represent Governor Hogan and the Office of Crime Control & Prevention during National Crime Victims' Rights Week," said Glenn Fueston, executive director of the Governor's Office of Crime Control & Prevention. "Throughout this week, in communities in every region of the state, there have been ceremonies and memorials to honor Maryland's crime victims and those valuable organizations that work with victims. Under the governor's direction, we have rededicated ourselves to comfort, help, and advocate for victims of crime in Maryland."
After delivering opening remarks, Governor Hogan presented Governor's Victim Assistance Awards to three Marylanders who have gone above and beyond the call of duty to assist crime victims. The awards are given in memory of individuals who helped to put crime victims' rights and services on the map in Maryland and nationally.
"This conference is an opportunity to recognize those who have contributed so much to the crime victims' rights movement here in Maryland. On behalf of a grateful state, thank you for the incredibly selfless and critically important work you do," said Governor Hogan, who also presented two governor's proclamations, one for Crime Victims' Rights Week (April 2-8) and the other for Crime Victims and Advocates Commemorative Day, which was April 3.
Following Governor Hogan's presentation, nine workshops were offered to conference attendees on subjects including domestic violence, child sex trafficking, adversity in childhood, and law enforcement, among others.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2017/04/07/governor-larry-hogan-gives-opening-remarks-at-marylands-second-annual-crime-victims-rights-conference/
