Public Statements
Governor Hogan Announces Supplemental Budget Supporting Maryland State Police
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: March 26, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Today at a swearing-in ceremony for Colonel William M. Pallozzi as superintendent of the Maryland State Police, Governor Hogan announced the administration's plan to introduce a second supplemental budget, which, in part, will add funding for 100 new Maryland State Police troopers and reopen the barrack in Annapolis.
The announcement reaffirms the Hogan administration's commitment to making sure that the Maryland State Police remains among the most effective, trusted, and respected police forces in the United States.
The supplemental budget will provide an additional $6.8 million to recruit, train, and equip 100 new troopers. These troopers will be added through two classes, the first of which is scheduled for graduation this year. It will also provide an additional $1.4 million to reopen the Maryland State Police "Barrack J" in Annapolis that was closed by the previous administration in 2008. The governor has instructed Colonel Pallozzi to begin the process of restoring "Barrack J" to an operational state within the next few months.
"I am honored to watch Colonel Pallozzi be sworn in as the next superintendent of the Maryland State Police," said Governor Hogan. "He's a man of experience and integrity, and under his leadership, the Maryland State Police will now be able to employ the full range of their law enforcement capabilities and develop a more unified approach with their local and federal counterparts. It is our duty to provide the State Police with the manpower and resources they need to do their jobs and protect the people of Maryland. By reopening the Annapolis barrack and increasing the number of Maryland state troopers, we will have a greater police presence on our roadways and in our local communities."
Currently, the authorized size of the Maryland State Police is 1,556 men and women in uniform. The actions taken through the supplemental budget will bring the force to 1,656 troopers -- a level not seen for more than a dozen years.

Source:
