Public Statements
Governor Hogan Celebrates Maryland Day At Cove Point, MGM Events
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: March 25, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today celebrated Maryland Day by participating in milestones for two projects that will have significant economic impact for Maryland. The governor first joined president of Dominion Energy Diane Leopold and Japanese Ambassador to the United States, Kenichiro Sasae, at the groundbreaking ceremony for the expansion of Cove Point's liquefied natural gas facility.
Following that event, Governor Hogan also participated in a celebration of the 1000th worker at MGM's National Harbor Resort project with MGM Resorts International Chairman and CEO Jim Murren, President and COO of MGM National Harbor Lorenzo Creighton, Prince George's County Executive Rushern Baker, and other local elected officials.
The Cove Point project will expand their facilities for gas liquefactions and exportation. The estimated cost of the project is $3.8 billion and will bring up to 3,000 onsite construction positions. Once complete, this project will generate an additional $40 million in annual tax revenue to Calvert County and has the potential to increase state exports by $5 billion a year.
"The Cove Point expansion is one of largest private investments ever in Maryland and designed to bring both economic and environmental benefits to Maryland," said Governor Hogan. "Through this project, Maryland will have the ability to share some of America's new found energy production capabilities with overseas markets -- in places like Japan and India."
The $1.2 billion MGM National Harbor resort will include a 23-floor, 300-room luxury hotel, a casino featuring 3,600 slots and 160 table games, a 3,000‐seat theater, 18,000 square feet of high‐end branded retail, 27,000 square feet of meeting space, 4,800 parking spaces, and restaurants from renowned local and national chefs and will employ more than 4,000 people once complete. Construction at the MGM National Resort Project began in the summer of 2014.
"I am incredibly proud to congratulate the 1,000 skilled men and women who are working hard on this project, something that is certain to be an incredible world class resort," said Governor Hogan. "Projects like these are shining examples of where our state is headed -- growing the private sector, putting people back to work and turning our economy around."

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/03/25/governor-hogan-celebrates-maryland-day-at-cove-point-mgm-events/
