Public Statements
Governor Hogan, Members Of Maryland Congressional Delegation Support FBI Relocation To Prince George's County
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Feb. 24, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Hogan, members of the Maryland congressional delegation, including Senators Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin and Representatives Steny Hoyer and Donna Edwards, met yesterday to express their joint support for the FBI headquarters to relocate from Washington, D.C., to a site in Prince George's County, Maryland.
Prince George's County Executive Rushern Baker, Prince George's County Council Chairman Mel Franklin, Transportation Secretary Pete Rahn, and Business and Economic Development Secretary Mike Gill also participated in the meeting.
The General Services Administration, which manages federal office space, is conducting the new site search on behalf of the FBI. The search has set off a competition among officials in Maryland and Virginia to win the location.
The meeting attendees and Governor Hogan have issued the following joint statement:
"As GSA moves forward with the process of selecting a site, Maryland is united at the federal, state, and local level to bring the new FBI headquarters to Prince George's County. We will be working closely together to make sure that the FBI gets a fully consolidated modern headquarters that meets the agency's needs. There is no doubt that Prince George's County offers a close proximity to Washington, easy access to mass transit, world-class research and education institutions, cyber security and defense facilities, and other assets valuable to the FBI's ongoing missions. Locating the new FBI headquarters in Prince George's will make Maryland's economy stronger by bringing thousands of jobs to the county, boosting our local economy, and generating additional revenues for our community."
Governor Hogan called the meeting a "united front," and added, "I want to thank the members of the congressional delegation and the officials from Prince George's County who have been working so hard for so long to get the FBI to come to Maryland. They've said before that they're "all in' on this project, and so am I. The relocation would be of critical importance to our state, and I am committed to working with our federal and local partners to make this happen."
The GSA is slated to make its final decision on the new FBI site in early spring 2016.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/02/24/governor-hogan-members-of-maryland-congressional-delegation-support-fbi-relocation-to-prince-georges-county/
