Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Meets With Telephonics Corp. to Discuss Recent Expansion in Maryland
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 20, 2017
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today joined executives from global aerospace and defense solutions provider Telephonics Corp. at the Paris Air Show to discuss the recent expansion of the company's subsidiary Systems Engineering Group (SEG) in Columbia. A leading provider of combat, radar, and missile systems engineering and analysis, SEG has expanded its footprint in Columbia and hired 40 new employees over the past 18 months, with additional growth expected in the coming year.
The company's growth is being driven by the need for advanced physics-based analysis of foreign ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, and radar systems to support the development of effective defenses for U.S. armed services. Telephonics is among a number of global aerospace and defense companies Governor Hogan is meeting with at the Paris Air Show this week to promote Maryland's assets, strategic location, and highly educated workforce.
"Telephonics and SEG, along with our parent company Griffon, appreciate the opportunity to meet with Governor Hogan and his delegation at the Paris Air Show to discuss SEG's continued growth and increased collaborative efforts in the greater Maryland community," said Kevin McSweeney, president of Telephonics.
SEG is a key source of systems engineering expertise for U.S. integrated air and missile defense initiatives and supports a number of high-level government and military agencies, including the Missile Defense Agency, AEGIS Ballistic Missile Defense Program, U.S. Naval Surface Warfare Centers, Marine Corps Systems Command and the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command, among others. In addition to government program offices, SEG also works extensively with national laboratories, the intelligence community, and prime contractors.
"Telephonics has been a great partner in Maryland's economic resurgence, and we are thrilled that Systems Engineering Group plans to grow its presence even further in our state," said Governor Hogan. "SEG's efforts to bolster our highly skilled workforce and support university research are a great example of how Maryland institutions and the private sector can work together to create jobs and grow our economy."
SEG closely collaborates with the University of Maryland system, providing internships, job recruitment, and partnering on collaborative research, as well as joint pursuit of Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) business and grants. At the local high school level, SEG is committed to supporting STEM-related educational opportunities, including Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps (JROTC) and robotics programs.
"We are pleased to continue growing our business, workforce and partnerships here in Maryland. Our STEM and university relationships are both key to our long-term growth strategy and provide an opportunity to give back to the community as we continue to develop new technologies to address the rapidly evolving threats to our nation, " said Mike Anderson, SEG's vice president.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2017/06/20/governor-larry-hogan-meets-with-telephonics-corp-to-discuss-recent-expansion-in-maryland/
