Public Statements
Governor Hogan Announces Mark J. Belton As Natural Resources Secretary
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Feb. 13, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced retired Rear Admiral Mark J. Belton as his appointee for the secretary of the Maryland Department of Natural Resources.
"I am thrilled that a person like Mark Belton, a public servant of unique leadership ability and high character, will be joining our administration as the new DNR secretary," said Governor Hogan. "There is no question he will be committed to making positive changes for the agency and will work with all stakeholders to preserve, protect, enhance, and restore Maryland's natural resources for all our citizens."
A 1983 graduate of the United States Naval Academy, Mark Belton achieved the rank of rear admiral after serving on active duty in the U.S. Navy for more than seven years and in the U.S. Navy Reserve for over two decades. He served in Kosovo in 2001 and in Baghdad from 2009 to 2010. In Baghdad, he was the senior force representative to the Iraqi Ministries of Oil and Electricity at the U.S. Embassy.
Mr. Belton retired as rear admiral in late 2014. During his 31-year naval career, he received personal awards, including three Legions of Merit, five Meritorious Service Medals, the Joint Commendation Medal, seven Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medals, and the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal.
From 2003 to 2005, he served as assistant secretary of DNR, where he directly oversaw the Natural Resources Police, finance & administration, human resources, licensing and registration, internal audits, and the office of fair practice.
Mr. Belton's civilian career also includes a variety of state and local government leadership positions, including executive director of the Pride of Baltimore, Inc.; county administrator for Queen Anne's County; and county administrator for Charles County.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/02/13/governor-hogan-announces-mark-j-belton-as-natural-resources-secretary/
