Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Additional Members Of Administration
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Feb. 11, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Today, Governor Larry Hogan announced three additional members of the Hogan-Rutherford administration. Pending Senate confirmation, the governor's nominations are:
Carol Beatty, Secretary of Department of Disabilities
David Garcia, Secretary of Department of Information Technology
Jennie Hunter-Cevera, Secretary of Maryland Higher Education Commission
"These three individuals bring a wealth of knowledge and expertise to the talented and diverse team we have assembled," said Governor Hogan. "I want to thank them for their commitment to public service and to Maryland and for their willingness to help move our state forward."
Carol Beatty has served as the executive director of The Arc of Howard, a private, non-profit organization that provides advocacy and support services for more than 750 children and adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities and their families. In this capacity, she managed a $13 million budget and 300 employees and was responsible for advocacy efforts on behalf of individuals and their families on a county, state, and national level. Previously, she served in an executive-level capacity at Alternate Living, Inc., and Bello Machre, Inc., both dedicated to providing quality services to individuals with disabilities. Beatty has a physical disability as a result of contracting polio as a baby.
David Garcia is the president and chief executive at NMR Consulting, which he founded in 1996. For more than 20 years, Garcia has worked in both technical and management roles in the high-tech arena. Following active duty in the U.S. Army and later serving as the chief of telecommunications with the U.S. Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine, now the U.S. Army Public Health Command, Garcia recognized a need in the contracting industry for better customer service. As part of his consulting services, Garcia provided a variety of services including risk management, information technology, program management, infrastructure services, and logistics support. NMR Consulting has been recognized by Inc. Magazine as one of the nation's fastest-growing private companies and by Hispanic Business Magazine as one of the country's 500 largest Hispanic-owned firms by revenue, and 100 fastest-growing by revenue growth over five years.
Jennie Hunter-Cevera is currently the acting secretary of the Maryland Higher Education Commission. Hunter-Cevera has more than 20 years of professional experience in research and development, as well as public policy leadership in the life sciences and pharmaceutical, and biotechnology industries. She is the founder and CEO of Hunter-Cevera and Associates, a consulting company whose clients included major universities, government agencies, and biotechnology companies. Her background includes executive vice president of Discovery Sciences, Government, Public and Corporate Relations at RTI International, one of the world's leading research institutes. She is the former president of the University of Maryland Biotechnology Institute. Hunter-Cevera was one of three individuals put forward by the Maryland Higher Education Commission and was ultimately chosen by Governor Hogan.
Headshots available by request.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2015/02/11/governor-larry-hogan-announces-additional-members-of-administration/
