Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Names Benjamin H. Wu DBED Deputy Secretary
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Jan. 29, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan and DBED Secretary Mike Gill today announced that Benjamin H. Wu, an internationally recognized technology policy expert with more than 25 years of experience and management leadership, has been named Deputy Secretary of the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development (DBED). In his new role, Wu will act as the Chief Operating Officer, responsible for overseeing the Department's charge of attracting companies to the State, working with in-state companies to help them expand and add jobs, connecting companies with resources and partners and driving tourism, film and the arts.
"I'm very excited to have Ben help lead the transformation of our state's business climate and drive home the message that Maryland is open for business," said Governor Hogan. "Creating jobs and strengthening our economy is one of my top Administration priorities. Ben brings a wealth of experience and knowledge to make Maryland more competitive and is highly respected in and around the business community. I thank Ben for his willingness to serve our citizens and help us build a better Maryland."
"As a native Marylander and resident of Montgomery County, it's a privilege to work with Governor Hogan and DBED Secretary Mike Gill in advancing the Administration's priority of championing our critical industry sectors," said Wu. "Governor Hogan has declared that economic development will be a hallmark for his Administration. I thank Governor Hogan for this exciting opportunity to help change Maryland for the better. "
Wu has worked on behalf of the State of Maryland at the highest levels of federal and state government, as well as in the U.S. Congress, on issues related to innovation, competition, technology commercialization, international trade and economic development. A former U.S. Department of Commerce and DBED executive, Wu has developed several strategic plans to promote Maryland's innovation economy, including the state's current roadmap for the life sciences and cybersecurity industries. He has a substantive record of forging successful public-private partnerships to drive scientific research and development in the state and has collaborated successfully with Maryland's industry, academia and federal, state and local governments to accelerate technology-led economic development and solidify its high-tech preeminence.
Wu previously served as the Maryland Assistant Secretary of Business and Economic Development and Senior Technology Policy Advisor, as well as the U.S. Deputy Undersecretary of Commerce for Technology and the U.S. Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy. At the U.S. Department of Commerce, Wu served as the Chief Operating Officer for the more than 3,000 employee, $500 million bureau that included the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in Gaithersburg. In addition, Wu was Counsel for former Maryland Congresswoman Connie Morella and the Technology Subcommittee of the House Science Committee.
ABOUT DBED:
The Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development stimulates private investment and creates jobs by attracting new businesses, encouraging the expansion and retention of existing companies, and providing workforce training and financial assistance to Maryland companies. The Department promotes the State's many economic advantages and markets local products and services at home and abroad to spur economic development and international investment, trade and tourism. Because they are major economic generators, the Department also supports the Arts, film production, sports and other special events. For more information, visit www.ChooseMaryland.org

Source: http://www.governor.maryland.gov/012915.html
