Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces FY 2016 Budget
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Jan. 22, 2015
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced his FY 2016 Budget. The overall theme of the FY 2016 budget is "Balance Today, Balance Tomorrow" and it achieves a goal Maryland has not seen in a decade -- aligning general fund spending with general fund revenues to create a structurally balanced budget. Governor Hogan's FY 2016 operating budget expends $16.4 billion on revenues of $16.4 billion.
The Governor's budget puts Maryland on sound financial footing without raising taxes or fees and without eliminating agencies or introducing furloughs or layoffs. Additionally, the budget commits record funding to spending K-12 education, fully funds school construction and grows higher education spending by 1.3%.
The budget achieves structural balance ahead of the goals set by the General Assembly's Spending Affordability Committee. The recommendation from the committee included a reduction to the state's structural deficit over several years, moving from approximately $700 million to $350 million in FY 2016. Governor Hogan's budget eliminates the structural deficit now.
Excluding appropriation to the reserve fund, PAYGO capital and debt service, Governor Hogan's FY 2016 budget keeps general fund spending growth to one-half of one percent (0.5%), significantly below the projected 3.5% growth in revenues. The budget includes a 2% reduction in funding to state agencies.
"I am extremely proud to introduce a structurally balanced budget that puts our state on sound financial footing," said Governor Hogan. "But this is just a start. We have much more to do in the days and weeks ahead to further strengthen our state's fiscal course. My Administration will continue to work to put Maryland's economy back on track, attract new businesses, and create jobs for the long-term stability of our budget."
The Governor's budget reverses Maryland unsustainable fiscal path and breaks the cycle of overspending and over borrowing. Most importantly, it will begin the rehabilitation of the capital debt program within affordable limits and is the first step in an essential turnaround and a multi-year effort that will bring the budget into a long-term balance.
By reducing the amount of new debt authorization, Maryland will be able to meet the majority of its capital needs and reduce the projected growth of state debt, which is approaching the limits established by the state's capital debt affordability process. While rebasing spending and solving the budget gap, the Governor's budget does include important spending in a number of areas

Source: http://www.governor.maryland.gov/012215.html
