Public Statements
Lt. Gov. Brown's "Efficiency Plan" Includes Proposed Elimination of School Breakfast Funding
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Oct. 22, 2014
Location: Annapolis, MD

After two terms as Lieutenant Governor and with just two weeks before election day, an embattled Anthony Brown now says he has a plan to cut his bloated state budget--but his estimate of anticipated savings includes steep cuts to school breakfast funding.
Brown bases his promise of substantial savings on the claim that "[s]imilar efficiency reviews have yielded billions of dollars in other states, such as Florida."
However, the Florida proposal cited by Brown proposes the elimination of state funding for school breakfasts, among other cost savings.
Anthony Brown said at the final gubernatorial debate, "Also feeding children in schools. Because no matter how good a teacher is in the front of the classroom, if a student has their stomach talking to them, because they're hungry, they're not going to be able to focus on that quality education," at the same time already proposing cutting school breakfast.
"Anthony Brown says that he can identify significant savings in Maryland because it's been done in other states," said Larry Hogan. "But has he actually looked at these states' plans?"
Hogan added, "Brown's, so-called "efficiencies' include a proposal for eliminating state funding for school breakfasts.
Anthony Brown thinks that Florida's draconian cuts provide a roadmap for Maryland. But after raising taxes 40 straight times on Maryland's parents, the Lt. Governor is now proposing eliminating their children's public school breakfasts. Anthony Brown has had eight years to develop a responsible 'government efficiency plan' and now, in the final days of the election, he's slapped together a reckless proposal balanced on the backs of Maryland's most vulnerable children."

Source: http://act.hoganforgovernor.com/lt_gov_brown_s_efficiency_plan_includes_proposed_elimination_of_school_breakfast_funding
