Public Statements
Anthony Brown Tax Hikes Will Cost Marylanders an Additional $10 Billion by 2018
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Oct. 17, 2014
Location: Annapolis, MD

The 40 consecutive tax hikes levied by Anthony Brown and Martin O'Malley would cost Marylanders nearly $10 billion more by the end of 2018, in addition to the $10 billion taxpayers have already been saddled with in their first two terms in office.
"Anthony Brown and the current administration have taxed Maryland's economy into the ground," charged Larry Hogan. "Many of these taxes, such as the gas tax and others, hit working- and middle-class Marylanders the hardest. Anthony Brown has promised that he would not raise taxes as governor, but his record shows otherwise."
"If Anthony Brown was really concerned about providing relief for Marylanders, he wouldn't be talking about another blue-ribbon commission with vague promises of examining the tax code. If he were serious about easing our tax burden, he would pledge to roll back these regressive taxes. It is becoming increasingly clear that the Brown-Ulman administration would be a third term of the O'Malley-Brown administration: more focused on political pet projects than providing relief in working Marylanders pocketbooks," Hogan continued. "In the last few weeks, Brown has tried to change his tone because he knows Marylanders are fed-up with the tax and spend mentality of the Lt. Governor and his allies in Annapolis."
"Maryland simply cannot afford four more years like the last eight; we need to get spending under control so we can begin to roll back as many of the 40 consecutive O'Malley-Brown tax increases as possible, and provide hardworking Marylanders some financial relief. That is what I have been advocating for the last three years, and that is exactly what will happen with Boyd Rutherford and I in the State House."
Tax increases from fiscal year 2008 -- 2014 cost hardworking Marylanders $10.05 billion. These taxes are projected to cost taxpayers an additional $9.86 billion from 2015-2018, bringing the grand total to $19.91 billion.

Source: http://act.hoganforgovernor.com/anthony_brown_tax_hikes_will_cost_marylanders_an_additional_10_billion_by_2018
