Public Statements
In Second Debate, Hogan Holds Brown Accountable for Failed Economy, Healthcare Exchange
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Oct. 13, 2014
Location: Annapolis, MD

In the second debate, gubernatorial candidate Larry Hogan held Lt. Governor Brown responsible for Maryland's failed economy and his disastrous rollout of Maryland's health exchange.
"While Anthony Brown continues to run from his record as Lt. Governor, Maryland's voters have lived that record for the last eight years and won't forget when we go to the polls in 22 days," said Larry Hogan. "Candidate Brown says he has a plan to make Maryland's economy number 1. However, while he was put in charge of our state's economic development, Maryland experienced zero growth over the last year and ranks 49th out of 50 states for economic growth."
"On Maryland's Healthcare Exchange, Lt. Governor Brown believed it would be a résumé builder. Yet, his failed leadership in the development and rollout of his health exchange disqualifies him from being governor," charged Hogan.
"Albert Einstein once said that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. Maryland voters have a real clear choice for a change. We are sick and tired of the status quo in Annapolis that has forced over 200,000 Marylanders out of work, 8,600 businesses to fail, and our economy to flounder," Hogan said.
"After more than 40 consecutive tax hikes that have taken an additional $10 billion out of our state's economy, Anthony Brown and the current administration's misguided economic policies have crushed hardworking Marylanders and their families. Poll after poll shows that Marylanders are focused on the economy, jobs, and taxes. That has been my entire focus for the last three years. If you are happy with the way things have been going in Maryland over the last eight years, you should probably vote for my opponent. But if you're ready to move in a new direction, with a renewed focus on restoring our economy and rolling back as many of these O'Malley-Brown taxes as possible, then I ask you to join me to make a real difference to bring about change."

Source: http://act.hoganforgovernor.com/in_second_debate_hogan_holds_brown_accountable_for_failed_economy_healthcare_exchange
