Public Statements
Washington Post - Despite Brown's Pledge, Gas Taxes Still Expected to Rise if He's Elected Governor
News Article
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Oct. 8, 2014
Location: Unknown

By John Wagner
Despite the emphatic pledge Tuesday by Democrat Anthony G. Brown that he would not raise taxes, Marylanders could still expect to pay more at the pump if he is elected governor.
That's because Brown's promise, made repeatedly during a gubernatorial debate with Republican Larry Hogan, does not apply to actions already taken by the legislature, his campaign said Wednesday.
Last year, at the urging of Gov. Martin O'Malley (D), lawmakers approved a sweeping transportation bill under which gas taxes could continue to rise into the indefinite future.
As a result of that law, Maryland now imposes a sales tax on gasoline in addition to a flat tax that is reflected in the price motorists pay. Lawmakers chose to phase in the sales tax, and some steps will be implemented after the next governor takes office. (The sales tax will eventually rise to either 3 percent or 5 percent, depending on whether Congress acts on an alternative funding source in the meantime.)
Lawmakers also voted to tied the gas tax to the rate of inflation, meaning motorists could continue to see periodic increases indefinitely unless a future legislature chooses a different course.
Brown campaign manager Justin Schall said the planned gas tax increases are not subject to Brown's pledge because "that is something that has already been dealt with."
Hogan was critical of that posture, accusing Brown, the state's lieutenant governor, of backtracking on a promise.
"We can't afford another tax increase, but Lt. Gov. Brown will turn his back on the rest of us and increase them anyway," Hogan said in a statement.
Hogan, an Anne Arundel County businessman, has pledged to roll back as many of the O'Malley tax increases as possible. But if he is elected governor, the gas tax would rise, too, unless he is able to convince the Democrat-led legislature to revamp its 2013 transportation law.
Brown's pledge could have consequences for other potential revenue sources under discussion in Annapolis.
Last week, for example, Comptroller Peter Franchot (D) said Maryland could have to raise its state-level property tax by 67 percent to pay off anticipated borrowing in the coming five years. According to legislative analysts, that would mean adding about another 7.7 cents to the current rate of 11.2 cents per $100 of assessed value.
The state has traditionally used property tax revenue for debt service, but in recent years lawmakers have also approved plans to use operating revenues as an alternative. The downside to that approach is less revenue that could otherwise be spent on priorities such as education, health care and the environment.
Schall said Wednesday that it is not a given that debt service will be as great as Franchot says and that Brown is committed to keeping property taxes in check, in any case.
Brown's pledge also seemingly creates a steeper climb for health-care activists who are pushing to raise the state's tobacco tax to $3 per pack of cigarettes, among the highest rates in the nation.
An advocacy group has unveiled a list of 111 legislative candidates on the fall ballot who support the idea, largely as a way to discourage smoking.
Schall said Wednesday that such a proposal is still a "hypothetical," but he reiterated that Brown "stands by his statement that there will be no new taxes."

Source: http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/md-politics/despite-browns-pledge-gas-taxes-still-expected-to-rise-if-hes-elected-governor/2014/10/08/357f6576-4f08-11e4-8c24-487e92bc997b_story.html
