Public Statements
"Women for Hogan" Rally Remarks
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Oct. 1, 2014
Location: Annapolis, MD

Good afternoon, women of Maryland! It is a real pleasure to be here on Lawyer's
Mall with all of you to kick off our "Women for Hogan" campaign!
I am thrilled to see so many of you dressed in pink and purple to call attention to
breast cancer and domestic violence awareness in the month of October.
We want to help shine a spotlight on these two critical issues, and I want to lend
my full support throughout the month of October. The Hogan-Rutherford
campaign is going pink and purple! Even our campaign bus now has pink and
purple ribbons on it, which looks great!
Please be sure you get one of the ribbons we're passing out today -- and wear it
throughout the rest of the month.
I am very honored to be surrounded by so many distinguished women on the
podium today, including my daughter Jaymi Sterling. Have you seen Jaymi's
commercial?
I am so proud of Jaymi and thankful for all her support on the campaign trail. And
by the way, today is her birthday! Happy Birthday Jaymi!
I'd also like to thank County Executive Laura Neuman, Delegate Jeannie
Haddaway-Riccio, Biana Arentz, and Buffy Giddens for taking the time to be
here.
My running mate, the next Lt. Governor Boyd Rutherford, is here, too. Boyd and I
would like to thank our incredible wives, Yumi and Monica, for their strength,
love, and support, and for being here with us today.
October is designated as both Breast Cancer and Domestic Violence Awareness
Month, but we need to shine a spotlight on these two life-or-death issues not just
this month, but each and every day.
Reflect on the color pink for a moment. It represents health and vitality; think of
newborn babies pink with life. Pink is the very antithesis of cancer.
This year alone, more than 230,000 cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed
nationwide. 4,700 of those cases will be diagnosed here in Maryland.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, breast cancer in
the United States is:
-The most common cancer in women, no matter race or ethnicity
-The most common cause of death from cancer among Hispanic women
-The second most common cause of death from cancer among white,
black, Asian/Pacific islander, and American Indian/Alaskan native women
Many Marylanders, men and women alike, are shocked when they learn that
there are now three counties in our state that don't have a single OB/GYN
practitioner. That is simply unacceptable.
When I have the honor of serving as your Governor, I will work to ensure that
every woman in our state has access to all the health care services she needs --
and that she won't have to cross county lines to get them.
I will also work to fix our broken budget and to restore the millions of dollars that
should be going toward breast and cervical cancer research and screening.
When millions are cut from these vital services, that is a women's issue.
And when communities lose their tax base, and can't provide local health
services, that's a women's issue too.
As for the color purple, well, in the U.S. military, the purple heart is presented to
those who are wounded while serving their country.
For those who have suffered domestic violence, who have been wounded
physically and emotionally, the color is a symbol of peace, courage, and
dedication to ending such violence.
According to the Maryland Network Against Domestic Violence, 50 people lost
their lives to domestic violence in Maryland last year. That is 50 too many.
Over the last month, we've heard a lot of negative news coming out of the NFL,
proving that domestic abuse knows no income to social status. It is a scourge on
our society, at all levels.
That being said, numerous studies have also shown that there is a link between
unemployment and domestic violence.
The sad reality is that when people are out of work and under financial strain,
they are more likely to take their frustrations out on their spouses and children.
The sad truth is that unemployment in Maryland has doubled over the last eight
years.
And, Maryland has the third-highest food stamp registration rate in the U.S.
When we have over 200,000 Marylanders out of work, we cannot ignore the ugly
reality of domestic abuse.
Also, as a group, women who lose their jobs are at a greater risk of being
battered. Studies have shown that women who become unemployed are more
likely to be abused or to see an escalation in existing abuse. That is a sickening
statistic.
Tens of thousands of Maryland women have lost their jobs over the last eight
years, and along with them, their employee-sponsored health insurance and the
women's services it covered.
Women are the heads of most households in our state and make the most
financial decisions for their families.
When employers close their doors and tax hikes raise the prices of just about
everything, many women have to choose between nutritious food, heating their
homes, or clothing their children.
The average family now pays $4,600 more per year in taxes and fees than they
did eight years ago, and that will double to $9,200 over the next four years if we
continue heading backwards down this path.
Make no mistake: restoring our economy is very much a women's issue.
The state of our economy has far-reaching consequences. It's not just bank
accounts that are affected. The very core of our society and the family is
weakened by an every-weakening economy.
When our economy suffers, our families suffer -- and that breaks my heart.
Unless we restore our economy, there will be even less money for the critical
services that many women and families so desperately need.
Starting today, some new state laws will take effect, a couple of which improve
protections from domestic violence. For one, people who commit domestic
violence in front of a child now face an added penalty of up to five years in
prison.
Also, the standard of evidence for obtaining a final protective order will be
reduced.
Finally, second-degree assault will be added to crimes for which a person can
obtain a final protective order.
These new laws are encouraging. I am also encouraged by the crowd here
today, and all who use their voice to call attention to breast cancer and domestic
violence.
I also hope that you will take the time to lend your support, time, and talents to
the numerous organizations throughout our state that care for families affected
by cancer, such as the Johns Hopkins Hospital's Hackerman-Patz House and the
American Cancer Society's Cancer Action Network here in Maryland.
As well as those who care for families who have suffered domestic abuse,
including the House of Ruth and the YWCA of Annapolis and Anne Arundel
County, and the various rape and sexual assault crisis centers in our counties
around the state. You do great work.
Thank you for joining me today. I want you to know, you have my strongest and
most sincere commitment that, as governor, I will do whatever I can to fight
breast cancer and domestic violence. Thank you!

Source: http://act.hoganforgovernor.com/hogan_campaign_highlights_women_s_issues_at_women_for_hogan_rally_in_downtown_annapolis
