Public Statements
Star Democrat - Hogan Visits Washington College
News Article
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Sept. 26, 2014
Location: Chestertown, MD

By Peter Heck
Larry Hogan, the Republican candidate for governor, spoke at Hynson Lounge on the Washington College campus Monday, Sept. 22.
After brief introductions by Melissa Deckman, head of the political science department, and college senior Madison Getty, Hogan spoke for about 20 minutes, focusing on economic themes.
"I'm not a politician, I'm a small-business man," Hogan said.
He said his father was a congressman, and he himself was a member of Gov. Robert Ehrlich's cabinet.
Because he was "fed up with politics as usual," Hogan said, he started Change Maryland, which he described as a nonpartisan group "to let the average citizen hold elected officials responsible." The group contains members of both parties, he said, along with independents. They share the common goal of opposing "the failed policies of the O'Malley-Brown administration."
Among those policies, Hogan listed "tax hikes we don't need, don't want and can't afford." According to a recent poll, he said, 62 percent of Marylanders "want a new direction" and 71 percent think taxes are too high. When Ehrlich left office, Hogan said, the state had a $1 billion surplus. Eight years later, under O'Malley, "the state is in real trouble," he said.
O'Malley has increased spending by $10 billion, enacting 40 consecutive tax hikes, Hogan said. As a result, he said, the state has lost 8,000 small businesses, and lost seven Fortune 500 businesses from Baltimore alone. The state's economy is 49th out of the 50 states, he said.
Also, Hogan said, there has been a "mass exodus of taxpayers" to other states with lower rates. This has taken $1.7 billion out of the state's economy, he said. Young people can't find jobs or raise families on the pay they can get, and as a result, he said, they are leaving Maryland, as are retirees.
Hogan said the upcoming election isn't about Democrats versus Republicans, "It's about right and wrong." He said a Hogan administration would "get government off your backs and out of your pockets."
He said the latest polls show the election "a dead heat" between him and Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown, a Democrat, and predicted the result would depend on turnout. He told the audience to get out and vote if they're unhappy with the status quo. "I will do everything in my power to turn the state around," he said, promising to "leave it all on the field" in his drive for election.
At the end of the prepared talk, Hogan took questions from the audience.
Asked for specifics on his plan to revive the economy, Hogan said he had identified "$2 billion in waste and fraud" in the current budget. His running mate, Boyd Rutherford, has the administrative experience to manage the executive branch effectively, he said. The governor sets the budget, "and it won't go up," he said. He promised to "run the government like a business."
Another audience member said the only campaign ads she had seen were negative. She asked about his plans to get out a positive message.
Hogan said his first ad had been positive. "It added 30 points to our polls and panicked Brown," he said. He said Brown's ads are "full of lies," which his own ads would expose by stating the facts in "a hard-hitting comparison."
Asked about his program to fight crime, Hogan said the greatest danger to the state comes from the rise in heroin use and the gangs who distribute the drug. The problem is "not just in the inner cities," he said, quoting officials from rural counties on the problem in their areas. He said he would declare a state of emergency to fight the "epidemic" and would make his program public soon.
Kent County Commissioner Bill Short asked about the impact of the Conowingo Dam on the health of the Chesapeake Bay.
Hogan said the O'Malley administration and the federal government have tried to blame the Bay's problems on farmers and watermen, and "put a tax on the rain that falls on your roof" while draining $1.3 billion out of the environmental trust fund. He said his administration would "push back" at the federal government and the other states whose sediment is coming over the dam.
A student said the state had the highest number of small business startups under the O'Malley administration. He said the problems of business are a national, not a state issue.
Hogan said the student was repeating "O'Malley-Brown propaganda." He said many of the businesses started under O'Malley had either failed or left the state for better economic environments.
He also said he would restore the highway user fund to local jurisdictions; eliminate red-light and speed cameras; and work to reduce the cost of college, eliminate student debt and support charter schools. Asked about campaign financing, he said he is funding his campaign entirely through public financing. In contrast, he said, Brown has spent $14 million of "special interest money."
Hogan ended by thanking the college for bringing him in to talk. He was impressed by the students he'd talked to and said there could be "some internships available starting in January" if his campaign is successful.

Source: http://www.stardem.com/news/local_news/article_a5196fbf-857d-52dc-ab64-70790c150290.html
