Public Statements
Capital Gazette - Hogan Following Ehrlich's 2002 Campaign Playbook
News Article
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Sept. 23, 2014
Location: Annapolis, MD

By Tim Prudente
White, Republican and age 58, Larry Hogan stood this month before an audience of mostly African-American fraternity members at Bowie State University and encouraged them to dare to consider a Republican.
"Experts would tell me that no matter what my platform is, no matter what the track record of my opponent is, that many of you in this room aren't even going to consider voting for me," Hogan said.
"Pick your own choices based on what you believe is best for your future."
As the Nov. 4 election approaches, Hogan said he will campaign outside his Republican base in Anne Arundel County -- a necessary strategy, since Democrats outnumber Republicans more than 2-to-1 in Maryland.
"You just have to cut into Democrats' major advantage," said Robert Ehrlich Jr., Maryland's last Republican governor.
An Annapolis resident, he was governor from 2003 to 2007.
Ehrlich said a successful Republican candidate must earn votes from some Democrats to "lose better" in blue counties, such as Prince George's and Montgomery, while maximizing the Republican base. In Prince George's and Montgomery counties, Democrats outnumber all registered voters in Anne Arundel.
Prince George's County had 442,639 Democrats as of June, according to the state Board of Elections. Montgomery County had 354,078 registered Democrats, according to the board.
By comparison, there were 269,671 total voters in Anne Arundel.
Hogan said fatigue after two terms of Gov. Martin O'Malley and Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown has won him some support from Democrats. Brown is now the Democratic candidate for governor, and Hogan spoke at Bowie State of also campaigning in Baltimore, home to nearly 300,000 Democrats.
"People were appreciative we showed up," Hogan said. "I'm going places where Republicans don't spend a lot of time."
Still, Justin Schall, Brown's campaign manager, said he was confident blue counties won't turn red on Nov. 4.
"We're not going to cede a single precinct," Schall said. "We're going to fight for every single vote."
There are circumstances in this year's election, however, that resemble those leading to Ehrlich's win in 2002.
Then, voters were coming off two terms of former Gov. Parris Glendening, a Democrat.
Now, voters are coming off two terms of O'Malley. The Democratic candidate in 2002 was a two-term lieutenant governor, as Brown is today.
Hogan said fatigue felt after the O'Malley administration is greater than that generated by previous Democratic governors.
But Anne Arundel Community College political science professor Dan Nataf said he doubted Hogan can reproduce the "Ehrlich moment."
Maryland has grown increasingly Democratic in the past 12 years, Nataf said. More than half of Charles County voters supported Ehrlich in 2002, but today Republicans make up about a quarter of registered voters in that county.
"Ehrlich had a much less threat from Charles," Nataf said. "Now Hogan has yet another terrain where he has to go and worry about too many Democrats going out and voting for the black guy in the ticket."
Ehrlich's African-American running mate in 2002, Michael Steele, helped win some of the Democratic vote, Nataf said.
He predicted Hogan must win Anne Arundel by more than 20 percent to compensate for expected losses in Prince George's and Montgomery counties.
Furthermore, the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, galvanized the Republican turnout in 2002, Ehrlich said.
He believes those attacks had a greater influence on that election than any "Glendening fatigue."
"Leadership becomes much more of a premium in more difficult situations and more fearful situations," said Ehrlich, the state's first Republican governor in 36 years when elected.
Previously, he had served in the House of Representatives from 1995 to 2003 and in the state House of Delegates from 1987 to 1995.
Hogan has run a real estate business in Riva for about 20 years and was in Ehrlich's Cabinet for four years.
His name recognition when he entered the race earlier this year came from a Facebook page and his father, Lawrence Hogan, who represented the 5th Congressional District of Maryland as a Republican congressman from 1969 to 1975.
"Who here really knows the Hogan name?" Nataf asked. "Ehrlich had been a congressman and a delegate. He was kind of a big deal. He had won elections."
Hogan's grass-roots campaign started with an organization he founded in 2011, a nonprofit called Change Maryland.
The group, now with more than 100,000 "likes" on Facebook, has since established itself as a leading critic of the O'Malley's administration.
Nataf and Hogan both said about 1 million votes will likely mean victory on Nov. 4.
Hogan is asking each of those Facebook friends to bring 10 voters along to the polls.

Source: http://www.capitalgazette.com/news/elections/ph-ac-cn-larry-hogan-0921-20140923,0,5601581,full.story
