Public Statements
WMAR - GOP Larry Hogan Blast Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown Over Camapign Ads
News Article
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Sept. 18, 2014
Location: Annapolis, MD

By Don Harrison
A little more than a month before Maryland's general election, the Republican gubernatorial candidate is charging that his Democratic opponent is spreading lies through his campaign ads.
GOP candidate Larry Hogan said Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown's campaign is completely misrepresenting his stance on many issues ranging from gun control to universal pre-K to abortion.
"Every single one of his commercials is absolutely false and filled with complete lies," Hogan said.
In one commercial, Brown's team blasts Hogan on abortion.
"Hogan opposes a right to choose," the ad claims. "He wants to ban abortions even in cases of rape and incest...."
Hogan calls the ad "an absolute lie."
"That's not my position now, that's never been my position," Hogan said. "I've said over and over again that nothing is going to change on abortion for me as governor. I have my own personal views about the issue, but I've said the people decided this issue in 1992. I take an oath to uphold the laws of Maryland and I Intended to do nothing to change those laws."
In response to Hogan, Brown campaign manager Justin Schall said in a statement: "Hogan is having problems with reality, so he's trying to distract and hide from his own words."
Hogan asked Brown's camp to remove the commercials from the airwaves.
"His ads are the worst I have ever seen in my entire career," Hogan said. "They're not only stretching the truth but they are blatantly false, the opposite of the truth and filled with complete lies."
"I understand why Hogan is afraid of Marylanders finding out the truth about his extreme conservative agenda but we stand behind the ads 100% - Hogan can't hide from his own words," Schall said.
The election is set for Nov. 4.

Source: http://www.abc2news.com/news/political/gop-larry-hogan-blast-lt-gov-anthony-brown-over-camapign-ads
