Public Statements
CBS Baltimore - Hogan Refutes Ads, Calls Brown's Campaign Dishonest
News Article
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Sept. 18, 2014
Location: Annapolis, MD

By Pat Warren
Attacks and counter-attacks set a new tone in the Maryland governor's race. A new Anthony Brown campaign ad has Republican Larry Hogan calling Brown a liar.
Political reporter Pat Warren has the latest from both campaigns.
The Brown campaign ad calls Hogan's agenda dangerous.
Hogan calls Brown a liar.
When asked "are you flatly calling the lieutenant governor a liar?" Logan replied "Yes, I am. I think it's really disgraceful."
Since the candidates hit the air, voters have heard accusations from both the democrat and the republican campaigns. The Hogan camp calls Brown not ready to be governor; the Brown campaign says Hogan is the wrong direction for Maryland
But the latest Brown campaign ad seems to have struck a nerve.
"This is the most deceitful, most dishonest campaign that I have ever witnessed in my entire life," Hogan said.
The ad tells voters Hogan is opposed a woman's right to choose.
"He wants to ban abortions even in the cases of rape and incest," the ad says.
"That is an absolute lie. It's not my position now. It's never been my position in my entire life," Hogan said.
In a statement, Brown's campaign manager says "Hogan is having problems with reality, so he's trying to distract and hide from his own words" and cites positions Hogan has taken in the past on restrictions on abortions.
The ad also says Hogan "opposed aspects of Maryland's gun control law."
"I've been pushing for instant point of sale background checks," Hogan said.
Hogan is calling on the Brown campaign to take down the ad.
The Brown campaign says, "Larry Hogan can't hide from his own words, and we stand by our ads 100%."
While the candidates duke it out over ads and records, voters are reminded that registration closes Oct. 14 and early voting starts Oct. 23.
Election Day is Nov. 4. Marylanders will also elect the General Assembly and congressional delegation.

Source: http://baltimore.cbslocal.com/2014/09/18/hogan-challenges-ads-calls-brown-campaign-dishonest/
