Public Statements
RGA Chairman Christie Raises Over $400K for Larry Hogan at Bethesda Event; Says Hogan Can Win in November
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr. Chris Christie
Date: Sept. 17, 2014
Location: Bethesda, MD

Republican Governors Association Chairman, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie raised more than $400,000 to support Larry Hogan's neck and neck race for Governor of Maryland today in Bethesda. The RGA's entrance into the gubernatorial race in Maryland, where registered Democrats outnumber Republicans 2-1, shows just how competitive the race for governor has become. Recent polling shows Hogan just three points down from Democratic challenger Lt. Governor Anthony Brown.
Larry Hogan said, "Our numbers are going up, [Anthony Brown's] numbers are going down, and this race is a dead heat for governor for the first time since my friend Bob Ehrlich was elected in 2002. We have a great chance to win this race the DGA knows it, which is why they are spending all this money, and the RGA knows it which is why Governor Christie is here today."
Christie said, "Let me be really clear abut why I am here: I am here because there are dozens of pundits and supposedly smart people in this state who are going to tell you over the next 48 days that Larry can't win. And I am here to tell you that if that were true then we wouldn't have a two term Republican governor in New Jersey, and we can have one here in Maryland too."
Christie continued, "The RGA invests in places we can win. We don't invest in lost causes and we don't pay for landslides. I didn't think we could win here three months ago. But you have a great candidate who got my attention and great leaders in your party who are relentless, in a good way. Don't miss your opportunity."
In addition to the RGA, the Democratic Governors Association has also made its way into the Maryland governor's race. Since the primary, Anthony Brown's 13-point lead has evaporated, forcing the DGA to invest $750,000 on attack ads that the media has called false and misleading. This latest desperate act from the Brown campaign makes it clear that the race is extremely competitive and that Hogan's bipartisan, economic message is resonating with Democrats and Republicans alike after eight years of higher taxes, mismanagement, and a stalled economy under Anthony Brown and Martin O'Malley.

Source:
