Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan to Release Second Supplemental Budget
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: March 26, 2017
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced that his administration has reached an agreement with leaders in the Maryland General Assembly and Baltimore City to provide additional state funding to Baltimore City Public Schools, contingent upon new fiscal accountability requirements for the school system. The governor will submit a second supplemental budget, which will include $28.2 million in additional funding for K-12 public schools in Allegany ($793,000), Calvert ($240,000), Carroll ($1.6 million), Cecil ($190,000), Garrett ($456,000), Harford ($356,000), Kent ($215,000), Queen Anne's ($22,000), Somerset ($455,000), and Talbot ($133,000) Counties, and Baltimore City ($23.7 million). The supplemental budget will be submitted to the legislature on Monday, March 27.
"Ensuring that every Maryland student has access to a world-class education is the number one priority of our administration, and I thank Mayor Pugh, Dr. Santelises, and members of the legislature for working with us to provide this support to schools in Baltimore City and ten jurisdictions across the state," said Governor Hogan. "But more money isn't the only answer -- we are proud that this funding is part of an agreement with Baltimore City leadership to bring greater transparency and accountability to city school finances. This is what students, parents, teachers, and Maryland taxpayers deserve."
The release of funds for Baltimore City public schools is contingent on the passage of legislation requiring greater fiscal accountability, including a comprehensive audit of the city school system performed by an independent accountant in consultation with the Maryland Department of Budget and Management. These accountability requirements are the direct result of extensive discussions and negotiations by the Hogan administration, the legislature, Baltimore City Mayor Catherine Pugh, and Baltimore City School Superintendent Dr. Sonja Santelises.
This funding, which adds to the record $6.4 billion in K-12 education funding included in the governor's initial budget, addresses school systems facing decreases in funding under the Thornton formula system passed by the Maryland General Assembly under a previous administration, due primarily to declining student enrollment and/or rising property values.
Governor Hogan submitted his first supplemental budget on March 24, which provided additional funding to combat the state's heroin epidemic, support education and economic development initiatives, and address public safety needs. Additional details on the governor's first supplemental budget can be found here.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2017/03/26/governor-larry-hogan-to-release-second-supplemental-budget/
