Public Statements
At MML, Hogan Hammers O'Malley-Brown Administration for Mismanagement, Stagnant Economic Growth, and Undue Burden on Municipalities
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Sept. 12, 2014
Location: Annapolis, MD

Good afternoon, thank you very much. Its great to be back with you again. First
of all, I want to thank the Maryland Municipal League for giving us this opportunity this afternoon.
I'd like to thank each and every one of you for being here, and I also want to
sincerely thank you for your service to our state and your dedication to your
communities.
Your board members and the MML staff do an outstanding job of representing
you, year after year. How about a big round of applause for all of them?
I have been coming to Maryland Municipal League events for more than 35
years. One of my first jobs out of college was to serve as intergovernmental
liaison for Prince George's County, where I interacted with all the municipalities.
But, I'm not a professional politician. I've spent most of my life in the private
sector. I'm just a small businessman, and a lifelong Marylander who loves this
state.
I'm running for governor because I feel very strongly that our state is way off
track, heading in the wrong direction, and that our very economic future is at
stake.
Quite frankly, I believe this might be our last chance to turn our state around
before it's too late.
I've been traveling all across the state, and we have been to nearly every city and
town and have met tens of thousands of people from all walks of life.
I've had the chance to meet with, and listen to the concerns of, a great many
municipal officials from one end of our state to the other.
I know that all of your communities are facing many difficult challenges and I'm
glad that we will have the opportunity to discuss some of them today.
What I have found is that from our largest cities to our smallest towns, people
seem to be concerned about the direction our state is heading.
The common theme I keep hearing is frustration. People everywhere feel there is
a real disconnect between Annapolis and the rest of Maryland.
And a majority of them, regardless of their party affiliation, feel that we are pretty
seriously on the wrong track, and that new leadership is needed in Annapolis.
The mismanagement of our state government over the last eight years has had a
real impact on each and every one of you. That is a fact that cannot be disputed.
It has crushed our state economy with 40 consecutive tax hikes that have taken
an additional $10 billion out of the pockets of struggling Marylanders, families
and small businesses.
The impact to our state economy has been clear and dramatic, and the effect it
has had on each of your cities and towns has been nothing short of devastating.
When I was a Cabinet Secretary eight years ago, we had thirteen Fortune 500
companies headquartered here. Now there are only 3.
We've lost 8,000 small businesses and 26% of our manufacturing base.
Just last month, we were second in the nation in job loss. We have lost nearly
100,000 jobs and unemployment has nearly doubled.
Foreclosures were up 20% last month in Maryland and we now have the
distinction of being third in the nation in foreclosures.
We've had zero economic growth, and in spite of our many natural advantages,
our state economy now ranks 49th out of 50 states.
We've had the largest mass exodus of taxpayers fleeing our state of any state in
the Mid-Atlantic region and one of the worst in the nation.
More than 31,000 Marylanders have voted with their feet and headed for the
exits, taking with them $1.7 billion a year out of our economy.
And sadly a new Gallup poll showed that nearly half of all Marylanders -- 47% -
would leave the state if they could.
Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't matter if you are a Democrat or a Republican,
or if you come from a big city or a small town, that should simply be unacceptable
to every single Marylander.
As a direct result of the damage this has caused to our economy, many of your
communities have lost businesses, jobs, taxpayers, and revenues at an alarming
rate.
It has made it difficult to balance your budgets and to maintain the important
programs and services your constituents need in your municipalities.
The incumbent administration has balanced its bloated budgets on the backs of
local governments, small businesses, and struggling Maryland families.
The picked the lock on the "lock box" and siphoned a billion dollars from the
Transportation Trust Fund.
Highway User Revenues, the biggest source of funding from the state to local
governments for 40 years, have been slashed by up to 96%.
Here is one change you can count on in the Hogan-Rutherford administration:
We will fully fund highway user revenues in the very first budget we submit in
January.
This administration cut funding for local health departments, and police
departments and many other important programs.
They broke their promises on teachers' pensions and raided funds you depended
on to balance your budgets.
They drained $1.3 billion from environmental trust funds, taking money from
Program Open Space, the Environmental Clean-Up Fund, the Chesapeake
Restoration Fund, and the Chesapeake Bay Trust.
And, time and time again, they have shirked their responsibilities, pushed
unfunded mandates down to you, and even tried to usurp your authority in local
planning and zoning decisions.
Let me just put it bluntly: local governments, small businesses, and struggling
families simply cannot afford a third term of the current administration.
We just can't keep moving Maryland backwards for another four years. The
people in this room and the people in your municipalities deserve better.
They desperately want and deserve new leadership in Annapolis and that is
exactly what my running mate, Secretary Boyd Rutherford, and I plan to give
them.
We plan to put Maryland on a new path. Our priorities are jobs, struggling
families, and turning our economy around.
We're going to get the state government off our backs and out of our pockets, so
we can grow the private sector, put people back to work, and turn our economy
around.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that our state is at an important crossroads, and
that the choice we make in 53 days will have a lasting impact on the future of our
state. And you couldn't possibly have a more clear choice. It really comes down
to this:
If you are happy with the current direction our state is heading, and you think a
third term of the current administration would be good for you, your town, and our
state, then you should probably vote for my opponent.
But, if you feel that a change of direction and a change of leadership is needed, it
doesn't matter what part of the state you live in or what your party affiliation is,
you have the power to do something about it by voting to bring out about that
change.
Folks, this isn't just your typical fight between Republicans and Democrats. It's
more important than that. This is a fight for Maryland's future, and I believe that it
is a fight worth fighting.
Let me leave you with this: When I have the honor as serving as your next
governor, no longer will your needs be ignored by an out-of-touch administration
that doesn't understand the unique problems facing your municipalities.
A governor cannot govern this state efficiently without the full cooperation and a
true partnership between the state and all of our local governments, working
together.
And that is one change you can count on. In the Hogan-Rutherford
administration, you will always find an open door, a sympathetic ear, a seat at the
table, and a true partner in Annapolis.
And I am confident that working closely with all of you, that together, we will
usher in a new era of cooperation between the state and all of our local
governments.
With your help, and all of us working together, in November we are going to send
a loud, clear message to Annapolis, and over the next four years, together we
will change Maryland for the better. Thank you.

Source: https://d3n8a8pro7vhmx.cloudfront.net/changemaryland/pages/1237/attachments/original/1410539022/Larry-Hogan-MML-Speech-9122014.pdf
