Public Statements
Washington Post - Md. GOP Nominee Hogan Urges Students at Bowie State Not to Vote Based on Skin Color
News Article
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Sept. 10, 2014
Location: Unknown

By John Wagner

Maryland Republican gubernatorial nominee Larry Hogan vowed Tuesday night that he would aggressively compete for the votes of African Americans in November despite facing a Democratic opponent who would be the state's first black governor.
"Don't let anyone tell you that you have to vote for or against someone just because of their party affiliation or the color of their skin," Hogan told a predominantly black audience at an event hosted by the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity at Bowie State University. The event was not advertised to the media but a video recording of Hogan's remarks was shared Wednesday with The Post.
Hogan, who faces Lt. Gov. Anthony G. Brown (D), said that "the pollsters and the political experts would tell me that no matter what my platform is, no matter what the track record of my opponent is, that many of you in this room aren't even going to consider voting for me because of the "R' next to my name. But I'm here to challenge that assumption."
Hogan, an Anne Arundel County businessman, said experts have also told him "that my opponent doesn't even have to bother to show up in front of a predominantly African American audience because  he has your vote locked up."
A Washington Post poll in early June showed Brown leading Hogan 80 percent to 4 percent among registered African-American voters. Among all registered voters, Brown's lead was 51 percent to 33 percent. Several recent polls by candidates and political organizations have suggested the race has tightened since then.
Hogan relayed to his audience at Bowie State that he had recently campaigned in some African-American neighborhoods in Baltimore, and he said that his message of cutting taxes and creating jobs resonated there, just as it does everywhere he goes.
"Many of the folks we met in those neighborhoods said "we don't usually vote,' and the ones who do, we know will most likely vote for our opponents," Hogan said. "But we went there anyway, and we told them we do care, and if they want things to change in their neighborhoods, they have the power to change them."
He urged everyone in the audience to vote and to encourage their friends to vote.
"To not vote is to make a mockery of the sacrifices of the people who fought for your rights," Hogan said.
In response to Hogan's comments, Brown campaign manager Justin Schall said Wednesday that "the vast majority of Marylanders, regardless of the color of their skin, will reject Larry Hogan and his conservative agenda."
Schall cited Hogan's past opposition to a minimum-wage increase and a sweeping gun-control law and his opposition to Brown's plan to significantly expand pre-kindergarten programs.

Source: http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/md-politics/maryland-gop-nominee-hogan-says-he-will-fight-to-win-african-american-votes/2014/09/10/8995c83e-38f2-11e4-9c9f-ebb47272e40e_story.html
