Public Statements
The Cecil Whig - GOP Gubernatorial Candidate Visits County Fair
News Article
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 27, 2014
Location: Fair Hill, MD

By Cheryl Mattix
Republican gubernatorial candidate Larry Hogan arrived at the Cecil County Fair on Friday night in his campaign bus in time to meet 4-Hers, farmers and ordinary fairgoers before watching part of the annual livestock auction.
"I realy enjoyed it," Hogan said before departing the fairgrounds. "We got a tremendous welcome from everyone at the fair."
Hogan, 58, has never held an elected office, but said that he has been inspired to run to make a change in state government.
His career in commercial real estate and focus on the business community, he said, gives him insight into what the state needs to do to become more business-friendly.
If elected, he promises to do something about the heavy tax burden on Maryland residents and business owners.
His message plays well in Cecil County, according to Bill Harris, Hogan's county campaign coordinator.
"One surprising thing that we discovered at the fair was the number of old-time Democrats that told us they support Hogan," Harris said. "A lot of people really don't like the direction the state is going."
Hogan said he knows he has to maximize base Republican voter turnout on election day in order to beat his Democratic opponent Anthony Brown, but he's confident that he can do so.
His campaign strategy has been to meet and mingle with as many people as he can between now and election day in November.
Hogan has been using his brightly-decorated coach bus to tour the state of Maryland, so far racking up more than 5,000 miles since June.
Harris said Hogan will return to Cecil County on Aug. 16 as the guest speaker at the Cecil County Republican Club meeting at the North East VFW at 7 p.m. The public is invited and Hogan will answer questions from the audience that night.
"The two issues that I hear most about are taxes and job loss," Hogan said. "People tell me they feel a disconnect with Annapolis."
Hogan founded Change Maryland, a non-profit grassroots call for change in Maryland politics, in 2011 and has over 100,000 followers on social media.

Source: http://www.cecildaily.com/news/local_news/article_269f0825-b37c-589c-bd87-4d42f276cc69.html
