Public Statements
DelmaravaNow - Smell of Old Bay Greets Those at Tawes Clam & Crab Bake
News Article
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 17, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Phil Davis
The 38th annual J. Millard Tawes Crab & Clam Bake in Crisfield brought out residents and legislators from throughout the state on a hazy but breezy Wednesday afternoon.
Walking around the Somers Cove Marina, understanding what the purpose of the clam bake requires a two-part approach.
First, there's the actual "Crab & Clam Bake" part of the event.
Approaching the entrance, the almost overwhelming smell of Old Bay seasoning greets you as you first see the intimidatingly long line for "Steamed Crabs."
There's a table for "Mugs and Mallets" as soon as you're done paying the $40 ticket price, both of which are expected to be used liberally by those in attendance.
The food is the very next item in your line of sight. The line for steamed crabs is intimidating, easily reaching 100 people at any given point.
Those who brought their own cardboard boxes fill up their makeshift trays with local seafood, corn and drinks, whether they be alcoholic or not.
If someone were to never walk past the portable toilets in the middle of the event, it would look like it was just one big cookout in this Shore town.
Country music blares in the background. Old Bay seasoning overpowers whatever smells would normally have a fighting chance at an indoor buffet. Hammers smash, crack and ultimately demolish crab shells without reprieve, almost to the point where trying to make casual conversation becomes more of a hassle than trying to eat the crab itself.
But on the other side of the marina are the political tents, offering the opportunity to meet local and state legislators in a capacity they might not otherwise have.
Republican gubernatorial candidate Larry Hogan came at about 1:10 p.m. with a cavalcade of white shirts endorsing both he and running mate Boyd Rutherford.
"So people are really concerned about the economy and about jobs," Hogan said. "They really feel there is a huge disconnect between Annapolis and the Shore."
As he spoke to residents concerned about their livelihood and industrial growth in the state as a whole, he repeated much of what you would hear on the campaign trail, harping on how "unemployment has doubled under the (Gov. Martin) O'Malley administration," saying his administration would "roll back as many of these 40 tax increases as possible" if elected.
Speaking with Hogan, who was very much on the campaign trail, highlighted the odd dichotomy of the event and all its proceedings.
On one hand, you could walk right up to Hogan and get him to talk about his intention to eliminate the personal income tax levied on military pensions and his plan to come out with a proposal for additional tax cuts for businesses in the manufacturing industry.
On the other, you could hear Lynyrd Skynyrd's "Sweet Home Alabama" blaring in the background over the sound of wood pounding against crab shells while a DJ for one of the business-sponsored tents belts out "Who wants a free T-shirt?" to the delight of those whose T-shirts don't belong to a particular political pundit.

Source: http://www.delmarvanow.com/story/news/local/maryland/2014/07/16/clam-bake/12756959/
