Public Statements
CapitalGazette.com - Republican Nominee Hogan Begins Push to Raise Statewide Profile
News Article
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 2, 2014
Location: Annapolis, MD

By Alex Jackson
Three days after winning the Republican nomination in the governor's race, Larry Hogan doesn't act like he's won anything.
At Mike's Crab House in Riva last week, one of Hogan's favorite lunch spots, eyes follow the Edgewater resident as soon as he walks through the door.
Wilbur Wells, of Severna Park, walks over to him, wishing him luck on the upcoming race.
Hogan, who has lived in Edgewater and run a real estate business in Riva for about 20 years, has fans here. He says Anne Arundel County is a key county for his campaign in the Nov. 4 general election, in which he faces Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown.
But Hogan also knows he'll need to earn votes from members of all parties, in all 24 jurisdictions, if he wants to run Annapolis.
"Can I get a picture?" a woman asks, holding her camera high to get Hogan's attention.
Hogan will need the sort of attention across the state that he gets from the lunch crowd at Mike's.
"I'm certainly the underdog," he said. "We're up against a well-funded challenger who's got millions of dollars of special-interest money and he's got all the powers of incumbency. But we have grass-roots, regular folks all across this state -- in particular here in Anne Arundel County -- who are frustrated."
Hogan's grass-roots campaign started with an organization he founded in 2011, a nonprofit called Change Maryland.
The group, now with more than 100,000 "likes" on Facebook, has since established itself as a leading critic of Gov. Martin O'Malley's administration.
Hogan believes he can compete in November against Brown because of the "frustrated" Marylanders he says are also the foundation of Change Maryland.
But if Marylanders are frustrated, it's not making them register as Republicans. In May, registered Democrats outnumbered registered Republicans more than 2-to-1.
Hogan says this year's election is "exactly like" 2002, when former Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. beat Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, who was lieutenant governor under then-Gov. Parris Glendening, a Democrat.
"Glendening fatigue" helped sway voters to put a Republican in office and "O'Malley fatigue" will do the same, Hogan said.
This May, there were 717,865 voters who were either unaffiliated or registered to a third party, up from 374,648 in 2002. But in 2014, there are about 535,000 more Democrats than in 2002 and only about 143,000 more Republicans.
"It's a numbers problem for any Republican running statewide," said Dan Nataf, director for the Center for the Study of Local Issues at Anne Arundel Community College. "You need a perfect storm to happen, just a perfect storm -- where the Republicans are invigorated, and turn out at high levels."
It's a sunny day at Mike's in Riva. Hogan briefly discusses free time, a concept that seems distant in the heat of a gubernatorial campaign.
Hogan enjoys boating from his home on Beard's Creek to downtown Annapolis, where he and his wife Yumi spend time.
He said he moved his business to Anne Arundel because he discovered it offered "everything," from the comforts of a bedroom community to the excitement of an urban one.
Hogan believes Anne Arundel, once an almost-forgotten county, has emerged as one of the state's leading jurisdictions. He believes it is currently one of the best counties in the state in which to do business.
Adam Dubitsky, Hogan's campaign public relations chief, has been on the trail before, but not since 2010. The last candidate he worked for was Scott Brown, who overcame an early polling deficit in a special election to become the first Republican elected to the U.S. Senate from Massachusetts since Edward Brooke in 1972.
Hogan says his polling show he's within single digits of Brown.
But other polls don't say the same. A Washington Post poll in mid-June showed Brown leading Hogan 51 percent to 33 percent among all registered voters in a hypothetical matchup.
"People just aren't focused in June," Hogan says, referring to 22 percent turnout statewide in the primary. "By November, people are going to be paying attention and I think it's going to be a very high turnout. And I think that will work to our advantage."
Over the next four months, Hogan's camp will try to turn frustration into votes in November.
While Hogan compares himself to Ehrlich in 2002, Ehrlich, unlike Hogan, had extensive experience as a lawmaker. Ehrlich was in the General Assembly and in Congress before he ran for governor.
Hogan ran unsuccessfully for office, spent time on Ehrlich's Cabinet for four years and owns a real estate brokerage.
His name recognition when he entered the race earlier this year came from a Facebook page and his father, Lawrence Hogan, who represented the 5th Congressional District of Maryland as a Republican U.S. congressman from 1969 to 1975.
Nataf said Hogan is relying on his assumption that Marylanders are frustrated. He also said Hogan needs money to communicate his image inside and out of Anne Arundel.
"The Hogan profile is essentially nonexistent," Nataf said. "He says he's got businesses and all these things that he's done, and he was appointments secretary under Ehrlich. This isn't something you exactly write home about and say "Wow, that's impressive.'"
But Hogan is banking on a belief that Marylanders have been worn down by years of tax and fee increases.
"It's not about Republicans and Democrats," he said. "The election basically comes down to a referendum on: Do you want to keep heading in the same direction or do you want to try something different?"

Source: http://www.capitalgazette.com/news/election/hogan-begins-push-to-expand-statewide-profile/article_fada5f52-ac09-5932-8550-0e0e561fc2d4.html
