Public Statements
Hogan-Rutherford Administration Announces Commission to Address Multigenerational Poverty
Press Release
By: Boyd Rutherford Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: March 9, 2017
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today signed Executive Order 01.01.2017.03, establishing an interagency, multidisciplinary commission to study the Two-Generation, or "Two-Gen" Approach, a public policy initiative that seeks to break the cycle of multigenerational poverty through a family-centered approach to service delivery. The commission will develop recommendations on how the state can link programs and services that create opportunities for both parents and children, particularly in the areas of education, economic stability, and family engagement.
"Breaking the cycle of multigenerational poverty is critical to ensuring a better quality of life for all of our citizens," said Lt. Governor Boyd Rutherford, who has been the driving force behind the Two-Gen effort and will serve as ex-officio chair of the commission. "This innovative approach will improve the strength of Maryland families by helping both develop the skills and support systems they need to achieve their aspirations -- for both the parents and children."
"Since day one, our administration has been committed to pursuing the best ideas, no matter which side of the aisle they come from," said Governor Hogan. "This commission will look at the potential benefits as well as the obstacles to this type of collaboration, in which the state provides services simultaneously for a family as a whole rather than for the adult and child separately."
Data shows that many children who grow up in poverty or in low-income families go on to experience economic hardship as an adult, and that those living in multigenerational poverty often face difficulties in making sound long-term personal and financial plans. To address these challenges, the commission will identify state programs and services that can be coordinated to support a multigenerational approach to helping vulnerable Marylanders. The Executive Order also allows for the state to launch up to four pilot programs in areas of the state with the highest percentages of multigenerational poverty.
The Two-Gen Approach is advocated by leading policy institutions like the National Governor's Association and philanthropic entities including the Aspen Institute, Kellogg Foundation, and Annie E. Casey foundation. Several Maryland jurisdictions, including Garrett, Allegany, and Montgomery County have already seen success implementing the policy at the local level.
The commission will be comprised of state officials, including representatives of the Maryland General Assembly, as well as several state and local agencies. Additionally, Governor Hogan will appoint five members, including one parent with experience in child-welfare advocacy and community-action partnerships. The commission will submit an interim report on or before December 31, 2017. The final report will be due to the governor no later than December 1, 2018.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2017/03/09/hogan-rutherford-administration-announces-commission-to-address-multigenerational-poverty/
