Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces New BOOST Funding, Visits Bais Yaakov Girls School
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Dec. 13, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today visited Bais Yaakov of Baltimore, a Jewish school for girls, where he met with students, parents, and faculty, and announced that Maryland will double funding for the Broadening Options and Opportunities for Students Today, or BOOST, program to a total of $10 million over the next three years. The program provides scholarships for low-income students in areas with under-performing schools to attend non-public schools, giving them the opportunity for a better education. Several BOOST recipients currently attend Bais Yaakov.
"Our administration has made education our number one priority, and we are working hard to ensure that every single child in Maryland is given the chance for a great education, regardless of what neighborhood they happen to grow up in," said Governor Hogan. "Today, I am pleased to announce that this year, we will again be funding the BOOST program, and we will be doubling the total funding over the next three years to $10 million in scholarships by Fiscal Year 2020."
In partnership with the Maryland General Assembly, Governor Hogan last year dedicated $5 million in BOOST scholarships for low-income students to attend non-public schools. A BOOST advisory board met eight times over the summer to determine criteria for eligible students and schools, as well as the amounts of each scholarship. Over 5,000 applications were submitted to a statewide application process with over 3,000 of those applications deemed eligible.
In addition to his announcement on BOOST funding, Governor Hogan also shared his experience visiting Israel during a seven-day economic development trade mission this past September, and spoke with students in an American Government class. During his visit, students and school representatives thanked the governor for his support for this critical BOOST funding, as well as his commitment to a strong relationship between Israel and the State of Maryland.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/12/13/governor-larry-hogan-announces-new-boost-funding-visits-bais-yaakov-girls-school/
