Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Funding to Fight Domestic Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking Crimes
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Oct. 27, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced that the Governor's Office of Crime Control & Prevention has awarded a total of $2,367,650 in federal Violence Against Women Act grants to fund efforts to help protect women and families from domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking crimes. This federal funding comes from the Office on Violence Against Women at the U.S. Department of Justice, and is authorized by the Violence Against Women Act.
"Our administration is committed to protecting victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, and these resources will provide critical treatment and support that can make a real difference," said Governor Larry Hogan. "I encourage all Marylanders to join with us in fighting to prevent these crimes and providing support and care for all victims."
The Violence Against Women Act was reauthorized in 2013 and is a grant that allocates its funding to services, training, law enforcement officers, and prosecutors. State agencies are encouraged to forge lasting partnerships with the criminal justice system and victim advocacy organizations, and to look beyond traditional resources by partnering with community and faith-based organizations to respond more vigorously to domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence.
"The grants we are announcing today are a crucial part of our state's continuing efforts to combat domestic violence, sexual assault, and other violent crimes against women, and to hold offenders accountable," said Glenn Fueston, executive director of the Governor's Office of Crime Control & Prevention. "Organizations across the state--from our courts and state's attorneys' offices, to law enforcement agencies and nonprofit organizations--will use this funding to protect victims and help families rebuild their lives."

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/10/27/governor-larry-hogan-announces-funding-to-fight-domestic-violence-sexual-assault-and-stalking-crimes/
