Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Delivers Address at Inaugural TechGap2016 Conference
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Oct. 14, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today delivered remarks at the inaugural Technology at the Gap Conference at Rocky Gap Resort in Allegany County during a three-day swing through Western Maryland. Technology at the Gap is a conference for web developers, system administrators, network and security specialists, managers, and others in the Information Technology (IT) industry. Currently, Maryland ranks fourth among all 50 states in concentration of IT jobs, with more than 12,000 IT companies statewide.
"Maryland is absolutely leading the way in Information Technology, and Western Maryland truly is the next frontier," said Governor Hogan. "Our state, county, and municipal leaders are working tirelessly to develop tangible incentives to encourage more IT businesses to locate in Western Maryland. We are fully committed to creating a culture here, and throughout our state, where these companies can continue to grow and thrive."
Maryland has long been considered a hub for tech talent, and Governor Hogan has built upon that reputation since taking office. In September, Governor Hogan led a trade mission to Israel, a country well known for its leadership in the tech sector. While there, the governor spoke to over 250 technology entrepreneurs at the annual GIA TLV conference in Tel Aviv and announced several partnerships between Maryland and Israeli tech companies.
Governor Hogan has also demonstrated a clear commitment to advancing STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) education to prepare students for the IT jobs of today and tomorrow. Earlier this year, the administration supported and launched an initiative to create P-TECH schools around the state, which blend high school, college, and workplace experience in the tech industry. One of the state's six P-TECH schools that will be created in the first phase of the program will be located in Allegany County.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/10/14/governor-larry-hogan-delivers-address-at-inaugural-techgap2016-conference/
