Public Statements
Governor Hogan Meets with Allegany County Sheriff for Update on Heroin Prevention and Enforcement
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Oct. 14, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today joined Allegany County Sheriff Craig Robertson at the Allegany County Sheriff's Office in Cumberland, to discuss progress in the law enforcement response to the heroin and opioid epidemic and the need for high-quality treatment for those struggling with addiction in Allegany County.
"Our administration remains focused and steadfast in our resolve to find real, lasting solutions to the heroin and opioid crisis," said Governor Hogan. "Together we are fighting this epidemic from every angle, but there is still so much more work to be done. Expanding access to quality treatment for those struggling with addiction and cracking down on drug traffickers who profit by destroying lives must remain our top priorities."
In August, the Governor's Office of Crime Control & Prevention awarded the Cumberland Police Department two grants to continue their fight against the heroin epidemic: $220,000 to continue the Safe Streets Initiative in the City of Cumberland and surrounding areas of Allegany County and $84,180 to implement a new Heroin Coordinator Grant Program. This program designates the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program as the central repository for all Maryland drug intelligence so as to promote a coordinated law enforcement and investigative strategy to battle the heroin epidemic through cooperation and data sharing.
"We have to have a multidisciplinary approach to address this crisis," said Glenn Fueston, executive director of the Governor's Office of Crime Control & Prevention. "These two initiatives will promote collaboration among our local, state, and federal partners, as well as between public health and public safety officials. Through these programs, we will ultimately be able to provide actionable information for both public health and public safety.
The Allegany County Sheriff's Office has implemented several efforts in partnership with the community to combat the heroin epidemic including holding town hall meetings, raising awareness among high school students, and hosting fundraisers.
"We must continue to tackle this issue head-on and we need everyone in the community to assist us," said Allegany County Sheriff Craig Robertson. "While the Heroin Coordinator Grant Program and the new Safe Streets goal are new additions to the efforts that are occurring in Allegany County and the state as a whole, I am confident that the hard work and dedicated efforts that are constantly occurring within this county will truly address this heroin epidemic."

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/10/14/governor-hogan-meets-with-allegany-county-sheriff-for-update-on-heroin-prevention-and-enforcement/
