Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Signs Sister State Agreement Between Maryland and the Negev Region of Israel
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Sept. 26, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today signed a Sister State agreement between Maryland and the Negev region in Israel. The signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) by Governor Hogan and Deputy Minister Meshulam Nahari establishes Maryland's 19th Sister State relationship, and the first in the Middle East. Governor Hogan and Deputy Minister Nahari were joined by senior officials from the Hogan administration, as well as Secretary of State John Wobensmith and Co-Chair of the Maryland-Israel Sister State Committee Bonnie Glick.
"I can't think of a better way to wrap up our trade mission than by signing this Memorandum of Understanding," said Governor Hogan. "This week has given me the opportunity to see first-hand the outsized contribution Israel makes both here and around the world. Maryland values the partnerships we have already, and I have no doubt that there will be even greater cooperation and collaboration generated as the direct result of this trade mission, and the execution of this MOU with the Negev."
The MOU signing followed the governor's visits to several Israeli businesses that currently operate in Maryland. In his remarks, he discussed the mutually beneficial collaboration between Maryland and Israel in the fields of security, information technology, aerospace, water management, education, and defense.
"Establishing a Sister State relationship with Israel has been a priority for this administration since Governor Hogan took office," said Secretary of State John Wobensmith. "We want to make it clear to Marylanders, Israelis, and institutions in both regions that Governor Hogan's entire Cabinet supports this great partnership."
"This Sister State agreement is a wonderful step forward for Maryland, and its importance is amplified by the presence of key members of Governor Hogan and key members of his Cabinet," said Bonnie Glick. Cabinet members in attendance included Secretary of Commerce Mike Gill, Secretary of Transportation Pete Rahn, and Secretary of Aging Rona Kramer.
Governor Hogan is completing the final day of a weeklong trade mission that began Tuesday, September 20, with the goal of strengthening ties between the Hogan administration and key Israeli officials and business leaders, and pursuing opportunities for Maryland companies to partner with Israeli businesses.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/09/26/governor-larry-hogan-signs-sister-state-agreement-between-maryland-and-the-negev-region-of-israel/
