Public Statements
SBA Approves Governor Hogan's Request for Disaster Declaration for Howard County
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: Aug. 10, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced that the U.S. Small Business Administration has approved a request for a physical disaster declaration for Howard County following flash flooding that affected Ellicott City and surrounding areas on July 30. The Maryland Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) is encouraging businesses and residents in Howard County and adjacent counties affected by heavy rains and flooding to now apply for low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration.
"These loans are essential for Ellicott City residents and businesses to rebuild, and I would like to thank the Small Business Administration for approving our request so quickly," said Governor Hogan. "Our administration will continue to work tirelessly with Howard County and the federal government to allow local residents and businesses access to as many of these programs as possible."
The SBA made the loans available in response to a letter from Governor Hogan on August 9, requesting a disaster declaration by the SBA. The declaration covers Howard County and the adjacent counties of Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Carroll, Frederick, Prince George's, and Montgomery.
"As many of us have seen, Main Street in Ellicott City was devastated by the flash flooding on July 30," said MEMA Executive Director Russ Strickland. "These loans, with attractive interest rates, can help the business owners and residents get back on their feet."
Businesses and nonprofit organizations of any size may borrow money to repair or replace damaged or destroyed real estate, machinery and equipment, inventory, and other business assets.
The SBA also offers Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDLs) to help meet working capital needs caused by the disaster. EIDL assistance is available regardless of whether the business suffered any physical property damage.

Source:
