Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Youth Apprenticeship Pilot Program Employers
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 28, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced that 12 Maryland businesses have been approved as eligible employers designated to provide apprenticeship opportunities to the youth in Frederick and Washington Counties. The businesses submitted applications to the Maryland Apprenticeship and Training Council to participate in the State's Apprenticeship Maryland Pilot Program and are poised to accept apprentices this fall.
"Our administration is committed to creating a stronger economy by building a workforce that meets and exceeds the needs of Maryland's businesses," said Governor Hogan. "This unique program is a great opportunity for Maryland businesses to directly train, influence, and shape high school students into top-performing employees."
The program requires that eligible employers hire Apprenticeship Maryland participants to enter into high-skill, high-growth STEM related industries such as healthcare, biotechnology, information technology, construction and design, banking and finance, and advanced manufacturing. Frederick and Washington Counties were selected to administer this pilot program which provides high school juniors and seniors with academic and occupational skills leading to both a high school diploma and a State Skill Certificate.
"The Maryland Department of Labor is pleased to collaborate with local employers to provide innovative work opportunities for high school juniors and seniors in Frederick and Washington Counties," said Maryland Department of Labor Secretary Kelly M. Schulz. "This program is a win/win for employers interested in expanding their talent pipeline and we are looking forward to more employers across the state benefiting from this opportunity in the future."
The following businesses have been approved by the Maryland Apprenticeship and Training Council to participate in the Apprenticeship Maryland Pilot Program:
American Computer Development, Inc.
B Todd Stocks Insurance Agency, LLC
Brunswick Woodworking Company, Inc.
Custom Concepts Construction Inc.
DVF Corporation
Frederick Regional Health Systems
Insul-Tech, Inc.
Pain and Spine Specialists of Maryland
Phoenix Mecano, Inc.
O'Boyle Enterprises, Inc.
RAMPF Molds Industries, Inc.
Woodsboro Bank
The pilot program was established through legislation signed by Governor Hogan in the 2015 legislative session of the Maryland General Assembly and is a partnership between the Maryland Department of Labor, the Maryland State Department of Education, and the Department of Commerce. The collaboration is a part of the Augustine Commission's report, which specifically identified the creation of apprenticeship opportunities as a way that Maryland could become more business friendly.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/07/28/governor-larry-hogan-announces-youth-apprenticeship-pilot-program-employers/
