Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Permanent Vehicle Registration for Disabled Maryland Veterans
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 19, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced that the Maryland Department of Transportation's Motor Vehicle Administration (MVA) will begin issuing permanent vehicle registration cards and license plate stickers to Maryland veterans who qualify as 100 percent disabled. While the stickers and registration cards have been free to qualified veterans for several years, this allows qualified veterans to skip the trip to the MVA to renew their registration. This initiative was developed by employees at the MVA and is part of Governor Hogan's initiative to improve customer service across Maryland state agencies.
"Since taking office, our administration has been committed to finding ways to provide veterans the support they have earned and deserve," said Governor Hogan. "This includes tax relief, down payment assistance for home ownership, and expanded job opportunities. Today's announcement is another opportunity to give back to our veterans and show our gratitude to those brave men and women who have served our country."
Qualified veterans do not need to take any action to enjoy this new benefit. The MVA will begin mailing the permanent registration cards and stickers on August 1 to approximately 5,200 Maryland veterans who qualify as 100 percent disabled as determined by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Prior to this initiative, qualified Maryland veterans had to renew their vehicle registration, free of charge, every two years at an MVA office.
"Governor Hogan challenged us to improve services to our customers and we are delivering on his call to action," said Transportation Secretary Pete K. Rahn. "By avoiding a trip to the MVA, we are saving time not only for our veterans, but also for customers who must visit one of our offices to complete a transaction."
"In keeping with the Governor's commitment to improve customer service, the MVA's new policy now makes vehicle registration more convenient for veterans living with disabilities," said Maryland Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary George W. Owings, III. "The issuance of permanent registration cards follows the designation of veteran on the front of the driver's license and identification card. These two new practices demonstrate Maryland's continued commitment to supporting the men and women who honorably served in the U.S. Armed Forces."
Last month, Governor Hogan launched the Customer Service Initiative, a continuous program designed to foster improvements in customer service across Maryland state agencies. The initiative focuses on three core deliverables: a renewed focus on a strong service culture in state agencies; improved customer service training for state employees; and the establishment of new service performance metrics, which will allow the administration and all Marylanders to track improvements in customer service over time.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/07/19/governor-larry-hogan-announces-permanent-vehicle-registration-for-disabled-maryland-veterans/
