Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Signs Compact to Fight Opioid Addiction
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 13, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today joined 46 governors in signing the Compact to Fight Opioid Addiction, which was developed by and released today through the National Governors Association (NGA).
"Far too many families and communities have experienced the devastation caused by heroin and opioid abuse," said Governor Hogan. "Our administration has been a leader in the fight against heroin and opioid abuse, and I am proud to partner with governors across our nation to build upon the progress that Maryland has already made in developing a coordinated, comprehensive approach to this crisis."
A month after taking office, Governor Hogan established the Heroin and Opioid Emergency Task Force and a separate Inter-Agency Coordinating Council, both of which were created to address Maryland's growing heroin and opioid crisis. In December 2015, the Heroin and Opioid Task Force issued their final report, which contained 33 recommendations to address heroin and opioid abuse, including expanding access to treatment and boosting overdose prevention efforts. Funding has been included in the last two budgets to address heroin addiction and treatment, as well as additional measures that are part of the administration's criminal justice reform effort. The governor championed the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, and provided state attorneys with new tools to pursue criminal organizations involved in drug trade.
The NGA compact stems from a resolution governors passed in February, where they outlined the need for federal action to support states and collaboration from the private sector, particularly when it comes to reducing inappropriate opioid prescribing, a key driver of an epidemic that claims the lives of roughly 78 Americans every day.
Governor Hogan will attend the National Governors Association annual summer meeting, which will begin tomorrow in Des Moines, Iowa. On Friday, Governor Hogan will join other governors for a session on opioid abuse with U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell and representatives from the Drug Enforcement Agency and National Academy of Medicine, as well as state experts.

Source:
