Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Appoints Ellington Churchill as Secretary of Department of General Services
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 12, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced the appointment of Ellington Churchill, Jr. as secretary of the Department of General Services (DGS). Churchill has served as the deputy secretary of Housing and Community Development since September 2015.
Prior to joining the Hogan administration, Churchill was a project manager from 1994 to 2006 for Lewis Contractors, a Mid-Atlantic construction management company, where he led multi-million dollar projects including the restoration of the Baltimore Basilica. From 2006 to 2010, Churchill was a senior project manager at the Maryland branch of Liberty Property Trust, a national developer of industrial and commercial office space. In 2010, Churchill returned to Lewis, where he garnered more than $100 million in projects, including the expansion of the Maryland School for the Blind and the restoration of the Washington Monument in Baltimore. Churchill is a graduate of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, where he received his Bachelor of Arts in architecture and a master's degree in construction management.
"Ellington is a valued member of our administration, and I am very excited to appoint him to this important position. His extensive professional background, including positions involving large-scale business development, property management, and contract negotiation, make him incredibly well-positioned to lead the Department of General Services," said Governor Hogan. "I look forward to working with him even more closely and continuing to change Maryland for the better."
"I am honored and humbled to continue to serve the administration in this new position, and I sincerely thank Governor Hogan for this opportunity," said Churchill. "It has been a privilege working with Secretary Holt and the Department of Housing and Community Development. I look forward to joining the talented team at the Department of General Services and continuing to serve the people of Maryland in my new role."
Churchill, 46, resides in Anne Arundel County with his wife and two children.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/07/12/governor-larry-hogan-appoints-ellington-churchill-as-secretary-of-department-of-general-services/
