Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Judicial Appointments
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 8, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced the appointments of William W. Davis Jr. to the Circuit Court of Cecil County, and Clara Eva Campbell to the District Court of Cecil County. The governor made the appointments after reviewing nominees from current and previous judicial nominating commissions.
"After conducting a thorough vetting process, I am confident that Mr. Davis and Ms. Campbell are the most qualified candidates to fill these vacancies," said Governor Hogan. "Their legal experience and expertise has prepared them to be strong advocates for the law and for the people of Cecil County. I offer my sincere congratulations and best wishes."
William "Will" Davis Jr. is currently serving as a solo practitioner for his firm, The Will Davis Law Firm, based in Elkton, and will fill a vacancy on the Circuit Court of Cecil County. He has served as a general practitioner, handling criminal law matters, serious traffic offenses, protective orders and personal injury cases. Mr. Davis also works as a panel attorney though the Maryland Office of the Public Defender, handling cases in Cecil, Kent, and Harford Counties. Since 2011, Mr. Davis has worked as an adjunct professor at the Legal Education Institute for the Delaware Law School (Widener University). He teaches courses on trial process, introduction to criminal law, criminal procedure, common law, and legal analysis. Mr. Davis graduated from the Georgia State University College of Law and received his bachelor's degree from Morehouse College.
Clara Eva Campbell is partner at the Law Office of Clara E. Campbell, located in Elkton, and will fill a vacancy on the District Court of Cecil County. Her previous experience includes working as a solo practitioner in Cecil County, working in partnership with Jennifer Hammond, Esq. from 1996 to 2008, and working as an associate for H. Norman Wilson, Jr. Esq. from 1987 to 1994. Ms. Campbell graduated from the University of Maryland School of Law, and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland, College Park.
These appointments take effect immediately.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/07/08/governor-larry-hogan-announces-judicial-appointments-8/
