Public Statements
Governor Hogan Dedicates "Heroes Highway" in Honor of Harford Sheriff's Deputies
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: July 6, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan, Harford County Sheriff Jeffrey Gahler, and Deputy Transportation Secretary James F. Ports, Jr., today unveiled new highway signs dedicating a portion of MD 924 (Emmorton Road) in honor of Senior Deputy Patrick B. Dailey and Deputy First Class Mark F. Logsdon, who were killed in the line of duty in Abingdon on February 10, 2016. The families of Dailey and Logsdon, members of the Harford County Sheriff's Office, representatives of area law enforcement agencies, and state and local officials joined in today's dedication ceremony.
"Today, on behalf of all the people of Maryland, we offer a small token of our lasting appreciation with the dedication of this portion of MD 924 as Heroes Highway," said Governor Hogan. "We do this with the knowledge that the lives of Deputy First Class Mark Logsdon and Senior Deputy Pat Dailey are not only marked by the last call they answered, but by a lifetime's worth of service to their community, to their state, and to their country."
During today's ceremonies, family members unveiled replicas of the new brown and white highway dedication signs, which have been installed along MD 924 between MD 24 (Vietnam Veterans Memorial Highway) and Singer Road. The Maryland General Assembly unanimously sponsored and passed Senate Bill 1104 and House Bill 1624 dedicating this stretch of MD 924 to Deputies Dailey and Logsdon. Governor Hogan signed the bills at a May 19 ceremony in Annapolis.
"This is a fitting symbol of the trust and love we have for the fallen -- our fallen," said Harford County Sheriff Jeffrey Gahler. "Pat and Mark willingly gave their lives in service to a community they loved and a community that loved them in return. We grieve the loss of our friends, but have emphatically rejected despair. They served and sacrificed for a purpose far greater than themselves. I can think of no truer definition of a hero."

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/07/06/governor-hogan-dedicates-heroes-highway-in-honor-of-harford-sheriffs-deputies/
