Public Statements
North American Produce Manufacturer Plans Expansion, Adding 150 Jobs
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 30, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Taylor Farms, a produce manufacturing and distribution company, is growing its footprint in Maryland to meet growing customer demand for its healthy eating products. The company, which has had a location in Maryland since 2004, is expanding its Annapolis Junction manufacturing operations and plans to add 150 new jobs in Howard County. Taylor Farms currently employs nearly 500 workers in Maryland.
"Taylor Farms Maryland's mission is to be America's favorite maker of salads and fresh foods. We strive to be a leader in innovation, service, quality, and food safety," said Mike George, general manager of Taylor Farms. "We are excited about our current growth and look forward to continuing our future opportunities for growth in the mid-Atlantic and northeast U.S."
Formed in 1995, Taylor Farms began as one facility with seven employees in Salinas Valley, California. Since then, the company has grown to operate 13 facilities across North America that produce seven billion servings of fresh vegetables annually, feeding more than 120 million Americans per week. The fresh produce manufacturer says they prepare every one in three salads consumed in the United States. The company is also focused on caring for its employees and recognizing their hard work through employee appreciation days, bonuses, and awards.
"Creating jobs and opportunities for our citizens by working with companies like Taylor Farms to help them expand will always be one of our top priorities," said Governor Larry Hogan. "Taylor Farms joins a number of companies that have recently chosen to add jobs in our state, highlighting our administration's efforts to strengthen the economy and continue changing Maryland for the better."
"It's gratifying to see Taylor Farms' owners continue to grow the food distribution industry here in Howard County," said Howard County Executive Allan H. Kittleman. "Like many of their industry peers, they have recognized Howard County and the Rt. 1 corridor as a prime location for their distribution services and have decided to reinvest and expand their business in Annapolis Junction."
As a result of their expansion, the company is eligible for a number of state and local tax credits, including Maryland's Job Creation Tax Credit administered by the Maryland Department of Commerce.
"We are proud that Taylor Farms sees the benefits of doing business in Maryland and is continuing to grow jobs and invest in our state," said Maryland Commerce Secretary Mike Gill. "With access to one-third of the U.S. population within an overnight drive, Maryland provides a competitive advantage for a fresh-foods business like Taylor Farms to reach a significant customer base."
Taylor Farms' three divisions -- food service, retail, and deli -- provide products for various retail corporations, restaurant chains, and convenience stores across the nation and abroad. The company embraces a culture of giving back to the local communities it serves around the nation. Over the last year, Taylor Farms contributed $4.9 million to community organizations and philanthropies.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/06/30/north-american-produce-manufacturer-plans-expansion-adding-150-jobs/
