Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan and Governor Jack Markell Unite to Prevent Unfair Electricity Fees on Delmarva Residents
Press Release
By: Jack Markell Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 29, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today joined Delaware Governor Jack Markell to announce a united effort to ensure that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) promptly reverses a proposal by PJM that would place an unfair burden on Delmarva residents. PJM's proposal would require residents in both states to pay nearly 90 percent of the costs, or about $350 million, for an energy transmission project that offers little benefit to Marylanders or Delawareans.
"Today, I am announcing that our administration is joining together with Governor Markell in strong opposition to this ruling, which would disproportionately cost Maryland and Delaware residents hundreds of millions of dollars for power they are not receiving," said Governor Hogan. "We have expressed our disappointment, frustration, and opposition to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission this week and we have let the agency know that we are going to use every tool at our disposal to reverse this regrettable and improper decision."
At a meeting held near the border between Maryland and Delaware, Governor Hogan announced that his administration would join in forcefully opposing the plan by immediately sending a letter to FERC members that echoes arguments made by Markell and the two states' Public Service Commissions. During today's remarks, the two governors urged FERC to act swiftly. They noted that PJM has argued that the states should be willing to pay because of reliability improvements needed to deal with major increases in energy consumption, but that those increases are not driven by the Delmarva Peninsula.
"It's imperative that FERC resolve this issue without delay and before the project moves too far along," said Governor Markell. "Planning for construction is already underway and uncertainty about electricity costs can impact economic development. I thank Governor Hogan for his commitment to join this fight against an unjust and irresponsible cost distribution that will raise electric bills of Delaware and Maryland consumers and businesses, unfairly forcing them to bear a large burden for this project."
FERC initially approved the cost allocation for a transmission line being built as part of PJM's Artificial Island project, despite evidence showing that Delmarva energy consumers would bear an overwhelming amount of the cost and receive only about ten percent of the benefits. Last week, FERC granted an appeal to consider a rehearing of the matter as requested by Governor Markell, and the Maryland and Delaware Public Service Commissions. Governor Markell had previously written to the PJM board as well as FERC stating that a cost allocation that results in Delmarva customers bearing almost all of the costs associated with the selected proposal would be inequitable and unreasonable.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/06/29/governor-larry-hogan-and-governor-jack-markell-unite-to-prevent-unfair-electricity-fees-on-delmarva-residents/
