Public Statements
Governor Larry Hogan Announces Construction of New MD 210 Interchange
Press Release
By: Larry Hogan, Jr.
Date: June 15, 2016
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Larry Hogan today announced work is underway on the $115.4 million project to build a new interchange to replace the current signalized intersection along MD 210 (Indian Head Highway) at Kerby Hill and Livingston roads. Work includes constructing an overpass to carry Kerby Hill Road and Livingston Road traffic over MD 210 to improve traffic flow along this busy corridor in Prince George's County. This investment will improve safety and reduce traffic congestion for thousands of drivers along this corridor.
"Everyone in the state relies on Maryland's roads, and our administration remains committed to the future improvement of Maryland transportation," said Governor Hogan. "Our investment in a number of critical projects all across Prince George's County, including $115 million for MD 210, will help citizens across our state go about their daily lives in a faster, more efficient, and safer manner."
As part of the Hogan administration's commitment to eliminate every state-owned, structurally deficient bridge in Maryland, the Maryland Department of Transportation's State Highway Administration (SHA) will have advertised 38 of the original 69 structurally deficient bridges by the end of this year. This summer, SHA will start construction on four structurally deficient bridges along the Capital Beltway in Prince George's County alone.
The MD 210 Interchange project is one of several that will be under construction this year in Prince George's County alone. MD 210 currently is three lanes in each direction with a narrow median. During the morning and evening rush hours, drivers experience delays at two traffic signals between I-495 (The Capital Beltway) and Kerby Hill/Livingston roads. Traffic on MD 210 is expected to increase from 82,700 vehicles per day to 126,350 by 2035.
Once completed, the interchange will control merging traffic onto northbound and southbound MD 210. SHA will remove two traffic signals, one at MD 210 at Wilson Bridge Drive and the other at MD 210 at Kerby Hill/Livingston roads. New traffic signals will be installed on the overpass. Other enhancements to improve safety and traffic management include aligning Kerby Hill Road, adding new outside shoulders and building a new service road parallel to southbound MD 210 that will serve area residents and transit. SHA also will remove the median crossover south of Alcoa Drive and build a right-in/right-out turn movement connecting to the northbound MD 210 service road.
SHA is scheduled to complete the project by fall 2018, providing drivers with safer, more efficient travel throughout the MD 210 corridor.

Source: http://governor.maryland.gov/2016/06/15/governor-larry-hogan-announces-construction-of-new-md-210-interchange/
