Public Statements
Issue Position: Government
Issue Position
By: Eric Holcomb
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

ERIC'S GOOD STATE GOVERNMENT PLAN
Maintaining our Fiscal Discipline and Delivering Exceptional Service to Hoosier Taxpayers.
*Pass Another Honestly Balanced Budget and Maintain our Healthy Rainy Day Fund to Preserve our AAA Credit Rating
Protect Indiana's fiscal solvency and continue the strategies that have made our state the most competitive, vibrant, and diverse economy in the Midwest.
*Protect the Healthy Indiana Plan From Washington, D.C. Intrusion/Takeover
Support the renewal and continuation of the successful Healthy Indiana Plan (HIP), which expands access to consumer directed health care to almost 400,000 Hoosiers.
*Deliver Efficient Government that Exceeds Taxpayer Expectations
Permanently move the Office of Small Business and Entrepreneurship into the portfolio of the Indiana Economic Development Corporation, where small business owners and entrepreneurs can have a state partner nimble and agile enough to meet their unique needs.
Expand functionality of the INBiz portal with the Indiana Secretary of State to continue to give businesses a one-stop-shop portal for managing relationship with state agencies.
Task all agencies with reviewing existing policies and processes to determine which can be streamlined, eliminated, or improved through online or other modernized services.
Utilize the management and performance hub to prevent ID theft and fraud against state agencies.
*Honor our Commitments to Hoosier Veterans
Create a one-stop, full-service shop for Hoosier Veterans at the National American Legion Building, rehabilitating it into a point of care for those veterans seeking assistance from public and private agencies.
Exempt Hoosier veterans from paying state taxes on their military retirement pensions.
Direct the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to reduce driver's license application and renewal fees for veterans and adopt processes to better identify military service personnel through their interactions with state agencies.
Seek resources to expand Indiana's Veterans Treatment Court system and ensure that county Veterans Service Officers are equipped and trained to assist more Hoosier veterans access to their benefits.

Source: http://holcombforindiana.com/good-state-government/
