Public Statements
Gov. Holcomb Announces Low-Interest Disaster Loans for Dubois and Surrounding Counties
Press Release
By: Eric Holcomb
Date: June 14, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Eric J. Holcomb today announced the availability of low-interest disaster loans for Dubois and the surrounding counties following spring flooding in southern Indiana.
Dubois County qualified for the low-interest disaster loans and as a result, the contiguous counties of Crawford, Daviess, Martin, Orange, Perry, Pike, Spencer and Warrick are also eligible.
"These low-interest loans are designed to support the counties affected by severe weather this spring," Gov. Holcomb said. "It's my hope that area citizens and businesses recover fully and as quickly as possible."
The loans are available to residents, businesses and non-profit organizations through the U.S. Small Business Administration.
Loan Amounts -- Businesses and Organizations
Businesses and private non-profit organizations of any size may borrow up to $2 million to repair or replace disaster-damaged or destroyed real estate, machinery and equipment, inventory and other business assets.
For small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small businesses engaged in aquaculture and most private nonprofit organizations of all sizes, the SBA offers Economic Injury Disaster Loans to help meet working capital needs caused by the disaster. These loans are available regardless of whether the business suffered any physical property damage.
Loan Amounts -- Citizens
Disaster loans up to $200,000 are available to homeowners to repair or replace disaster damaged or destroyed real estate. Homeowners and renters are eligible for up to $40,000 to repair or replace disaster damaged or destroyed personal property.
How to Apply
Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA's secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela/.
Applications and program information are available by calling the SBA's Customer Service Center at 1-800-659-2955 (1-800-877-8339 for the deaf and hard-of-hearing), or by sending an email to disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can also be downloaded from the SBA's website at www.sba.gov/disaster. Completed applications should be mailed to:
U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155.
Deadlines to Apply
The filing deadline to return applications for physical property damage is August 14, 2017. The deadline to return economic injury applications is March 14, 2018.
For more information about the SBA's Disaster Loan Program, visit http://www.sba.gov/disaster.

Source: https://calendar.in.gov/site/gov/event/gov-holcomb-announces-low-interest-disaster-loans-for-dubois-and-surrounding-counties/
