Public Statements
Issue Position: Economy
Issue Position
By: Eric Holcomb
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

Strengthening and Diversifying Our Thriving Hoosier Jobs Climate
* Retain, Retrain & Recruit the Best & Brightest
Continue to accelerate annual wage increases.
Through the $1 billion innovation and entrepreneurship plan, expand job growth by making smart investments in start-ups, high growth companies, co-working spaces and university partnerships, and supporting high school entrepreneurship programs to develop young entrepreneur competitions across Indiana.
Transform workforce development from the unemployment agency to the employment agency by leveraging data and enhanced investments to create a demand-driven workforce training system that responds to the needs of Hoosier employers, with a focus on the state's strategic industry sectors, including manufacturing, biosciences and information technology, to help every Hoosier secure a good paying job for themselves.
Grow our Regional Cities Initiative to enhance local quality of life and place and foster regional approaches to economic development.
Make the Venture Capital Investment Tax Credit (VCI) transferable to incentivize investment into Indiana businesses from investors outside of Indiana.
* Lead the Nation with Infrastructure Investment & Innovation
Continue our record-setting investments in state and local roads, fund a long-term solution to our infrastructure needs by letting data (not politics) drive our decisions, and empower our cities to invest more in local roads and sidewalks.
Double track the South Shore Line to better connect Indiana's northwest communities to the nation's 3rd largest market.
Complete I-69 from Evansville to Indianapolis, which will ultimately connect three countries together.
Build Indiana's 4th new bridge over the Ohio River in Evansville, an important connector between Indiana and Kentucky.
Build Indiana's 4th port on the Ohio River, cementing our state's role as a logistics and transportation hub and driving investments and jobs to that region of the state.
Support growth and expansion at our airports throughout the state to secure more direct flights and more efficient travel.
Seek additional public-private partnership investment in high-speed Internet access, especially in rural areas to help expand economic opportunity to all Hoosiers.
Create a revolving loan fund to support the expanded use of data-driven farming and precision agriculture.
* Keep Energy Costs Down for All Hoosiers
Develop an all-of-the-above Indiana approach to energy independence that supports our most abundant and reliable energy sources and ensures the security of our utilities.
Stand strong against unreasonable Federal EPA rules, like the so-called Clean Power Plan, that continue to lead to higher prices for Hoosiers.
* Maintain Our Fiscal Discipline
Pass another honestly balanced budget and maintain our healthy rainy day fund to preserve our AAA credit rating.
Protect Indiana's fiscal solvency and continue the strategies that have made our state the most competitive, vibrant, and diverse economy in the Midwest.

Source: http://holcombforindiana.com/economic-development-plan/
