Public Statements
Governor Abbott Applauds Sen. Estes, Rep. Villalba's Intention To Author Legislation Limiting Growth In Local Spending
Statement
By: Craig Estes Jason Villalba Gregory Abbott
Date: June 27, 2017
Location: Austin, TX

In the upcoming special legislative session, Sen. Craig Estes and Rep. Jason Villalba will author legislation to limit the growth in local spending to no more than the growth of population and inflation. This is one of 20 items that Governor Abbott previously announced will be added to the special session agenda. Governor Abbott issued the following statement thanking Sen. Estes and Rep. Villalba for their work on this issue.
"Fiscal responsibility does not begin and end with state government," said Governor Abbott. "Government, at all levels, has a responsibility to operate within a budget that does not shift the unnecessary and excessive cost of unchecked growth onto its taxpayers. That is why I added this cap on local spending to my agenda for this special session, and am grateful to Senator Estes and Representative Villalba for authoring legislation to ensure good stewardship of taxpayer dollars."
"I share Governor Abbott's concerns about government spending at every level of government," said Sen. Estes. "We must have common sense limits on government spending at all levels of government to ensure greater accountability for every taxpayer."
"Just as my wife and I prepare our family budget with conscientious planning and prudent assumptions, I think it's important for the state and the local municipalities to limit non-emergency spending to population growth and the rate of inflation. The bill I will be filing during the special session will rein in irresponsible spending by local elected officials and grant the taxpayers with the ultimate authority to make the final call on government growth that exceeds that of growth plus inflation. If we can get our spending under control, then we can lower property taxes, which most everyone in Dallas is asking for," said Rep. Villalba.

Source:
