Public Statements
Governor Abbott Announces Grainger Expansion In San Antonio
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: June 7, 2016
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott today announced that W.W. Grainger, Inc., has opened a new sales facility in San Antonio, Texas. Grainger is the nation's leading broad line supplier of maintenance, repair and operating (MRO) products, serving more than 2 million businesses and institutions across industries such as healthcare, manufacturing and hospitality. This project represents a $3.9 million capital investment in the State of Texas. A Texas Enterprise Fund (TEF) grant offer of $975,000 has been extended to Grainger.
"Texas continues to be an economic leader throughout the world thanks to a business climate that encourages growth and innovation," said Governor Abbott. "In addition to our low-tax and limited regulation environment, Texas offers one of the strongest and most highly skilled workforces in the nation. I am proud that Grainger has chosen San Antonio as the site of their new facility and as Governor, I will continue to promote policies that attract industry leaders like Grainger to the Lone Star State."
Grainger has more than 40 locations in Texas, including two in San Antonio. The company plans to hire approximately 200 employees for this new facility.
"Grainger has been in Texas since 1934, so we know the state provides a talented workforce and vibrant business community," said Grainger Chairman, President and CEO, Jim Ryan. "Team members in this new San Antonio location will offer our customers products and solutions to help keep their facilities running and people safe. We look forward to having this facility fully operational this summer."
"Bexar County applauds the high quality, high-wage jobs that Grainger is creating within our community." Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff said.
"We are excited to assist Fortune 500 company Grainger in selecting San Antonio to locate their newest operation," said Wayne Peacock, Chairman of the San Antonio Economic Development Foundation. "The new facility will create about 200 jobs and represents a capital investment of almost $4 million, adding to San Antonio's positive economic momentum."
Those interested in job opportunities with Grainger can visit http://jobs.grainger.com to learn more.
The Texas Legislature created the TEF in 2003 and reauthorized funding in 2005, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2013 and 2015 to help attract new companies to Texas and expand existing businesses to create more jobs throughout the State. TEF projects must be approved by the governor, lieutenant governor and speaker of the House. The fund has since become one of the state's most competitive economic development tools.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/22372
