Public Statements
Governor Abbott Applauds Sen. Hancock, Reps. Parker And Schofield's Intention To File Legislation Limiting Growth In State Spending
Statement
By: Kelly Hancock Michael Schofield Tan Parker Gregory Abbott
Date: June 27, 2017
Location: Austin, TX

In the upcoming special legislative session, Sen. Kelly Hancock, Reps. Tan Parker and Mike Schofield will file legislation to limit the growth in state spending to no more than the growth of population and inflation. This is one of 20 items that Governor Abbott previously announced will be added to the special session agenda. Governor Abbott issued the following statement thanking Sen. Hancock, Rep. Parker and Rep. Schofield for their work on this issue.
"A key component to good governance is fiscal responsibility," said Governor Abbott. "By passing laws that ensure state spending does not exceed the growth rate of population and inflation, we can limit the size of government and control spending, while retaining the flexibility to meet the needs of our fastest growing communities. I thank Sen. Hancock and Reps. Parker and Schofield for stepping up to lead this effort to protect Texas taxpayer dollars."
"In Texas, fiscal responsibility isn't just a catch phrase, it's a mandate from the people," said Sen. Hancock. "While the Legislature was able to pass a conservative budget this year and cut spending by $200 million, this population and inflation spending cap bill looks ahead and provides permanent protection against sky-high government spending. Texans can't spend outside their budgets at home, and our government shouldn't be able to either. Texas can't afford to wind up like Washington, D.C.!"
"Passing a state spending cap is vital to the long-term financial strength of our state and will ensure Texas continues to maintain its fiscal discipline for generations to come," said Rep. Parker. "As lawmakers, we must make certain our state government always operates at the lowest cost possible on behalf of the taxpayers who carry the load everyday."
"This legislation is designed to stop government from taking up a larger and larger percentage of the state's economy by preventing it from growing beyond its current size, allowing increases only for inflation and for the increased population of our state," said Rep. Schofield. "I'll be working hard to make sure this vital legislation makes it across the finish line during the special session."

Source: https://gov.texas.gov/news/post/governor-abbott-applauds-sen.-hancock-reps.-parker-and-schofields-intention
