Public Statements
Governor Abbott Addresses 2016 Sun City Memorial Day Celebration; Announces Never Forgotten Initiative
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: May 30, 2016
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott today addressed the 2016 Sun City Memorial Day celebration in Georgetown, Texas to honor armed service members who gave their lives in defense of the United States of America. Governor Abbott emphasized that no single day is enough to truly repay those who have made the ultimate sacrifice to preserve the freedoms we cherish.

Governor Abbott also announced that he is launching a nationwide call to help locate the missing photos of six Medal of Honor recipients from Texas who served between 1870 and 1900.

For more information on the search effort, click here.

Excerpts from Governor Abbott's 2016 Memorial Day Speech:

"A single day of remembrances each year is inadequate to truly repay the debt of gratitude we owe. We should honor their memory every day by remembering that America would not be the home of the free if not for the brave we honor today."

()

"There's an arc in the story of America, and it bends toward freedom. From Valley Forge to Vicksburg, from the Civil War to Civil Rights, from the Cold War to the War on Terror, Americans always remember that freedom is worth fighting for."

()

"To all who have served and to those who still serve today, we must offer more than the gratitude of a great nation. We must honor our commitments to those who answer the call of duty. As much as we remember those who never returned, our country must rededicate its commitment to care for those who do return."

()

"Among the 91 Medal of Honor recipients from Texas memorialized at the Capitol in Austin are names and faces that should be familiar to every Texan. But six Medal of Honor recipients from Texas have no photo to show people who they were. Today I'm launching a nation-wide call to help us remember our heroes. I'm asking for America's help to find these six missing photos."

()

"May we always remember our troops in harm's way, and may we never forget the price they paid so that we can be free."

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/22343
