Public Statements
First Lady Cecilia Abbott Welcomes Sherman, Corpus Christi And Brownsville As Newest Texas Main Street Communities
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: May 6, 2016
Location: Austin, TX

First Lady Cecilia Abbott was in Sherman on Wednesday and Corpus Christi and Brownsville Friday for the Texas Historical Commission Texas Main Street Program's 2016 First Lady's Tour, an annual event celebrating Texas Main Street communities and welcoming the three Texas towns as the program's newest members. Since 1981, every Texas First Lady has participated in the tour honoring new communities designated as official Texas Main Street cities.
"It was my pleasure to continue this grand tradition and celebrate Sherman, Corpus Christi and Brownsville as the 2016 Texas Main Street communities," the First Lady said. "It is clear that these communities know the importance of a historic, yet vibrant, downtown. All across Texas -- from our busy urban centers to our treasured small towns -- it is in our downtowns where the past, present and future meet, and a sense of community grows. I congratulate you on your work to make your communities shine even brighter through historic preservation and economic development."
During all three visits, the First Lady was joined by state and local officials, local business owners and volunteers, and dozens of local residents eager to see the Main Street vision for their respective towns. The First Lady addressed event attendees and unveiled architectural renderings of the Main Street plans for each of the town's downtown areas.
The Texas Main Street Program is an economic development, revitalization, and preservation program for historic downtowns administered by the Texas Historical Commission's Community Heritage Development Division. The Program works with local officials on revitalization plans that maintain a community's authenticity while promoting job creation and economic development. Today, there are 87 official Texas Main Street programs. The programs are in communities of all sizes, ranging from less than 2,000 to more than 240,000 in population, and in all areas of Texas. For more information on the Texas Main Street Program, visit www.thc.state.tx.us.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/22285
