Public Statements
Governor Abbott Applauds Sen. Perry, Rep. Greg Bonnen's Intention To Author Do-Not-Resuscitate Order Legislation
Statement
By: Charles Perry Greg Bonnen Gregory Abbott
Date: June 26, 2017
Location: Austin, TX

In the upcoming special legislative session, Sen. Charles Perry and Rep. Greg Bonnen will author legislation to strengthen patient protections related to Do-Not-Resuscitate (DNR) orders. This is one of 20 items that Governor Abbott previously announced will be added to the special session agenda. Governor Abbott issued the following statement commending Sen. Perry and Rep. Greg Bonnen on their commitment to this important issue, and Rep. Richard Raymond for his strong support of this legislation.
"Patient protections relating to Do-Not-Resuscitate orders must be strengthened and clarified under law," said Governor Abbott. "As leaders of this state, we have a responsibility to protect life at all stages. I am grateful to Sen. Perry and Reps. Greg Bonnen and Raymond for their efforts to address this issue in a thoughtful manner."
"I am grateful that Gov. Greg Abbott included Do-Not-Resuscitate (DNR) reform on his special session call," said Sen. Perry. "Many people are unaware that secret and forced DNRs can be placed in a patient's medical chart whether they are young or old. This is nothing short of frightening and I look forward to joining Rep. Greg Bonnen in giving patients and their families more medical rights over life and death decisions."
"The goal of this legislation is to preserve patient autonomy and protect Texans from having someone else make a value judgment on their life," said Rep. Greg Bonnen. "Through months-long negotiation with stakeholders, and with input from Texans who have been directly impacted by the issue, we have crafted a bill that establishes commonsense protections for patients and families confronting the difficult decisions involved in a Do Not Attempt Resuscitation Order."
"As Chairman of the Human Services Committee since 2011, I've worked on the DNR (Do Not Resuscitate) issue for several years. It is a very sensitive and important issue. There is room for improvement in the current approach. I support Governor Greg Abbott's decision to ask that we try to get it right during the upcoming Special Session,"

Source: https://gov.texas.gov/news/post/governor-abbott-applauds-sen.-perry-rep.-greg-bonnens-intention-to-author-d
