Public Statements
Governor Abbott Announces Expansion Of Thomson Reuters In Carrollton, TX
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: April 27, 2016
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott today announced that Thomson Reuters will be expanding its current operations in Carrollton, Texas. Thomson Reuters' expansion is projected to create at least 250 new jobs and $6 million in capital investment in the State of Texas. A Texas Enterprise Fund (TEF) grant offer of $1.538 million has been extended to Thomson Reuters, which is currently ranked 68th by Forbes on the list of World's Most Valuable Brands.
"Texas is continuing to diversify its economy through the growth of technology companies such as Thomson Reuters, and we are proud they have chosen Carrollton as the site of their next expansion," said Governor Abbott. "Thanks to our low taxes, reasonable regulations and right-to-work laws, the Lone Star State continues to be a beacon of free enterprise throughout the country and the world. As Governor, I will continue to pursue policies that expand freedom and opportunity for all Texans."
"Thomson Reuters has an outstanding local workforce and deep roots in the community, so we're pleased and proud to continue growing in the Dallas area," said Brian Peccarelli, President of the Tax & Accounting business of Thomson Reuters, which is headquartered in Carrollton.
The City of Carrollton partnered with the Office of the Governor to facilitate state and local support for Thomson Reuters' expansion.
"We are grateful for the State's offer of Texas Enterprise Fund assistance to Thomson Reuters, a long-time Carrollton company," said Matthew Marchant, Mayor of Carrollton. "The efforts of the Governor's office to create new jobs and grow corporate citizens like Thompson Reuters will ensure that our community and state remain economically sustainable. The award is a testament to our region's commitment of fostering re-investment opportunities and maintaining a business friendly environment."
"The Dallas Regional Chamber congratulates Thomson Reuters and Carrollton on the announcement of the company's expansion here," Mike Rosa, Senior Vice President of Economic Development said. "Companies like Thomson Reuters are a testament to the quality of our region and State for corporate locations, and also the great work being done by Carrollton and the State of Texas to create jobs and investment."
Thomson Reuters is expanding its existing 240,000 square foot building in Carrollton. The company currently employs over 1,000 people in the facility in roles including software development, sales, customer support, finance, human resources, legal, marketing, and project management.
A global technology company, Thomson Reuters has a workforce of 55,000 employees worldwide and has been named one of the World's Most Admired Companies and recognized as one of the Best Companies for Work-Life Balance. It currently is recruiting in the Dallas area for positions in technology, sales and customer support.
Thomson Reuters is the world's leading source of news and information for professional markets. The business has operated in more than 100 countries for more than 100 years. Thomson Reuters shares are listed on the Toronto and New York Stock Exchanges. For more information, visit www.thomsonreuters.com.
The Texas Legislature created the TEF in 2003 and reauthorized funding in 2005, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2013 and 2015 to help attract new companies to Texas and expand existing businesses to create more jobs throughout the State. TEF projects must be approved by the governor, lieutenant governor and speaker of the House. The fund has since become one of the state's most competitive economic development tools.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/22250
