Public Statements
Governor Abbott Establishes Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: March 7, 2016
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott today established the Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative to assess local economic activity, examine workforce challenges and opportunities, and consider innovative approaches to meeting the state's workforce goals. The Initiative will be spearheaded by TEA Commissioner Mike Morath, THECB Commissioner Raymond Paredes and TWC Commissioner Andres Alcantar, who will embark on a series of statewide Regional Education and Workforce meetings and will report back with their findings and recommendations.
"Understanding the needs of job creators is paramount to ensuring that Texas remains the top state for business expansion and relocation," said Governor Abbott. "This past session, we made economic strides by investing in our workforce and further reducing taxes and regulations. By establishing this initiative, the State of Texas now seeks to ensure that the needs of both its growing workforce as well as new and existing businesses are met and each are prepared to successfully operate in an ever-changing 21st century economy."
Governor Abbott has charged the Commissioners with the following:
Commissioners should identify and advance public and higher education initiatives that make college more affordable for families and help students enter the workforce more quickly with marketable skills.
Commissioners should work with industry and local stakeholders to assess local workforce needs and identify innovative workforce development models that directly coordinate with industry partners and promote post-secondary success. The Commissioners should include career and technical education (CTE) and science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education models in their assessment.
Commissioners should evaluate current agency efforts, as well as state and local web-based education and career awareness systems in an effort to better link students, parents, and educators to the broad array of high-demand jobs in this state and the educational requirements to secure those opportunities.
Commissioners should identify gaps in services to Texas veterans, advance strategies to enhance their education and employment opportunities, and develop solutions to ensure a seamless and accelerated transition back into the Texas workforce.
Commissioners should make recommendations that build the skills of the Texas workforce and advance regional economic expansion, job creation, and the goals of 60x30TX.

Source:
