Public Statements
Renewal Disaster Proclamation issued for North Texas Storms and Tornados
Statement
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: Jan. 26, 2016
Location: Austin, TX

TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL COME:
I, GREG ABBOTT, Governor of Texas, issued an Emergency Disaster Proclamation on December 27, 2015, certifying that the severe winter weather and tornadic events that began on December 26, 2015, has caused a disaster in Collin, Dallas, Ellis and Rockwall counties in the State of Texas. On December 31, 2015, I amended my proclamation of December 27, 2015, to include Wichita County. Those same conditions continue to exist in these and other counties in Texas.
THEREFORE, in accordance with the authority vested in me by Section 418.014 of the Texas Government Code, I do hereby declare a state of disaster in Bailey, Castro, Childress, Cochran, Collin, Dallas, Deaf Smith, Dickens, Ellis, Franklin, Hall, Hardeman, Harrison, Henderson, Hockley, Hopkins, Kaufman, Kent, King, Lamb, Liberty, Lubbock, Navarro, Parmer, Rains, Red River, Rockwall, Terry, Titus, Van Zandt and Wichita counties in the state of Texas.
Pursuant to Section 418.017 of the code, I authorize the use of all available resources of state government and of political subdivisions that are reasonably necessary to cope with this disaster.
Pursuant to Section 418.016 of the code, any regulatory statute prescribing the procedures for conduct of state business or any order or rule of a state agency that would in any way prevent, hinder or delay necessary action in coping with this disaster shall be suspended upon written approval of the Office of the Governor. However, to the extent that the enforcement of any state statute or administrative rule regarding contracting or procurement would impede any state agency's emergency response that is necessary to protect life or property threatened by this declared disaster, I hereby authorize the suspension of such statutes and rules for the duration of this declared disaster.
In accordance with the statutory requirements, copies of this proclamation shall be filed with the applicable authorities.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto signed my name and have officially caused the Seal of State to be affixed at my office in the City of Austin, Texas, this the 26th day of January, 2016.
GREG ABBOTT
Governor of Texas

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/proclamation/21891
