Public Statements
Governor Abbott Applauds Sen. Campbell, Rep. Capriglione's Intention To Author Abortion Complication Reporting Legislation
Statement
By: Donna Campbell Giovanni Capriglione Gregory Abbott
Date: June 23, 2017
Location: Austin, TX

In the upcoming special legislative session, Sen. Donna Campbell and Rep. Giovanni Capriglione will author legislation to strengthen reporting requirements when health complications result from abortions. This is one of 20 items that Governor Abbott previously announced will be added to the special session agenda. Governor Abbott issued the following statement applauding Sen. Campbell and Rep. Capriglione for their continued commitment to protect life in upcoming special session.
"To protect the health and safety of women, the state must ensure it is receiving accurate information when it comes to reporting complications that result from an abortion," said Governor Abbott. "Good data informs good policy, and I commend Representative Capriglione and Senator Campbell for working to ensure Texas has the best data possible to further strengthen the Lone Star State's pro-life reputation."
"Requiring timely and accurate reporting of medical data, especially as it relates to complications from abortions, will improve the standard of patient care and protect the safety of women," said Senator Campbell. "Abortion is abhorrent because it prematurely and unnaturally ends the life of a child, but it is even more tragic when compounded by complications that pose additional harm to women. Because we know medical data is not biased, we can learn a lot from what the data tells us by making every effort to collect it. I am grateful that we have a Governor who promotes a culture of life and has made this one of his priorities for the upcoming special session."
"Reporting abortion complications uniformly and correctly ensures the state has the best data to inform policy and legislation," said Rep. Capriglione. "Data-driven medicine is the key to protecting the health and safety of women."

Source:
