Public Statements
Governor Abbott Announces Texas Apprenticeship Program
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: Jan. 20, 2016
Location: Austin, TX

Following the first day of his business development trip in Switzerland, Governor Greg Abbott today announced Texas will be partnering with three Swiss companies to participate in an apprenticeship program. The three companies participating in the Texas apprenticeship program are Burckhardt Compression, Mercuria and Supra Group.
"I am proud that Texas is partnering with these industry leaders to help develop the skills for a new generation of workers," said Governor Abbott. "Because of our state's strong educational and workforce development programs, Texans are uniquely prepared to excel in a wide variety of fields. I am confident these companies will benefit from the immense talent, intellect and work ethic Texas has to offer."
"Texas has provided Mercuria the talent-focused business environment which helped foster our rapid growth. As we continue to expand in the United States and around the world, we need to build our talent in America and in Texas. Building upon our Swiss experience, apprentices develop needed skills when they work alongside recognized leaders in their field, fulfilling the core needs of the company," said Daniel Jaeggi, President of Mercuria Energy. "Our apprentices in Texas will learn the competencies vital to building a successful career in the worldwide energy and commodities sectors while simultaneously contributing to the local and global economy."
The company commitments coincide with the signing of an agreement between the U.S. and Switzerland in 2015, which provided a framework for the two countries to cooperate in such areas as work-based training, curriculum development, credential recognition, pathways to career development and the expansion of programs into new industry sectors.
"The vocational educational training has been a key success factor for the Swiss companies to reach their high level of quality," says Valentin Vogt, Chairman of Burckhardt Compression and President of the Swiss Employers' Confederation.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/21865
