Public Statements
Governor Abbott Applauds Rep. Clardy's Intention To Author Teacher Pay, Recruitment And Retention Legislation With Support From Reps. Deshotel, And Raymond
Statement
By: Richard Raymond Joe Deshotel Travis Clardy Gregory Abbott
Date: June 30, 2017
Location: Austin, TX

In the upcoming special legislative session, Rep. Travis Clardy will author legislation that increases teacher pay and gives greater flexibility to administrators in order to recruit and retain the best teachers in Texas public schools. These are items that Governor Abbott previously announced will be added to the special session agenda. The Governor thanked and Rep. Clardy for his commitment to improving education in Texas, and Reps. Deshotel and Raymond for their support of this legislation.
"Our teachers are some of the best in the country, but too many are choosing to work elsewhere because Texas lacks a competitive salary," said Governor Abbott. "To further ensure that our public schools attract and retain high-quality teachers, we need legislation that supports our educators and provides administrators with more flexibility in compensating our teachers. I applaud Reps. Clardy, Deshotel, And Raymond for their efforts to elevate Texas' education system and for ensuring we attract and keep the very best teachers in our classrooms."
"Every Texas student deserves the opportunity for a quality education," said Rep. Clardy. "That means we must have motivated teachers joining the ranks of the many outstanding professionals we have in Texas classrooms today. The first step to accomplishing that goal is providing competitive pay for our teachers while encouraging some of our best and brightest to work where our education needs are greatest. We must also give our school districts the tools they need to retain and reward our best teachers. I look forward to working with the Governor and my colleagues in the legislature to pass meaningful teacher compensation reform that restores the teaching profession to the honored and respected status it deserves with an increased focus on student outcomes."
"We must do more to keep our best teachers in the classroom, especially in our highest-need campuses," said Rep. Deshotel. "One way we can begin to move in that direction is providing our educators with competitive compensation along with a career ladder that encourages retention and gives administrators more flexibility without weakening teachers protection. We must let our teachers know how much we value their hard work and the impact they make on our children, and I look forward to working with Governor Abbott and the legislature to take this important first step."
"I have introduced legislation several times, including during this past regular session, calling for a pay raise for teachers," said Rep. Raymond. "I absolutely agree with Governor Greg Abbott's decision to put this item on the agenda. Teachers deserve it."

Source: https://gov.texas.gov/news/post/governor-abbott-applauds-rep.-clardys-intention-to-author-teacher-pay-recru
