Public Statements
Governor Abbott Addresses National Association of Women Business Owners 2015 National Conference
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: Sept. 28, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

**Gov. Abbott often deviates from prepared remarks.
Thank you. As Governor of this great state, let me extend a warm welcome to Texas. It's great to be with some of the most powerful women in America. Congratulations on 40 years of encouraging women to invest in America and to invest in themselves. Thank you also for being a business role model for young women like my daughter.
It's fitting that the country's premier women's business organization is meeting in Texas, because Texas is the country's premier state for doing business. Texas set an all-time record last year when we added over 450,000 jobs -- the most ever for a year in Texas. We've been the top exporting state for 13 years and ranked the best state for doing business for 11 years in a row. Texas was just named by Forbes as the best state in America to make a living.
Women have been leaders of that success. Texas is the second in the nation in the number of women-owned businesses. Only California has more. But women are growing businesses faster in Texas than California. Soon Texas will be #1 in America for women-owned businesses. For example our host city, San Antonio, is the top metro in the nation for women-owned firms. Houston and Dallas are also in the top ten.
Texas has been driven quite literally by women like your member here in San Antonio -- June Bratcher. June's nursing degree put her husband through medical school. After that -- in 1980 -- she wanted to start a business herself. With $200 saved from grocery money she started Daisy Tours. To expand her business, she tried to buy her own bus only to learn that she couldn't get a loan unless her husband signed the note. Of course he would have, but that wasn't the issue. It was her idea, her business and her passion.
June worked with groups like NAWBO to get the law changed so she could get her own loan. Seven years later, the law was finally changed and June Bratcher got her first loan on her own. The rest is history. Today, she is CEO of Daisy Charter & Shuttles, a multi-million dollar enterprise with nationwide service and more than 50 employees. Her success lead her to be selected the Woman Business Owner of the Year by NAWBO.
June realized what so many women face in business on the pathway to success -- challenging obstacles must be overcome.
I learned that lesson myself on the pathway to becoming Governor of Texas. Not long after I married my wife, I faced a daunting challenge. I realized our lives aren't measured by the ways we are challenged. Instead, we are measured by how we respond to challenges.
That is the same principle that you apply every day. You have to deal with increasing challenges, challenges in making your businesses grow, meeting a payroll and navigating a maze of regulations and taxes.
As Governor, I focus on policies that reduce those challenges and make doing business in Texas even more rewarding.
For example, while other states are raising taxes, Texas just slashed the business franchise tax by 25%. We also fast-tracked the permitting processes, we eliminated occupational licensing fees for 600,000 Texans and we exempted from the franchise tax veterans who start a business.
To make our infrastructure the best in America, we're investing an unprecedented $4 billion a year to build more roads without raising fees, taxes, tools or debt.
We're also improving education to develop the skilled workforce you need.
As the son of a real estate agent and as Governor of Texas, I've found that women are looking for the same opportunities as all entrepreneurs -- more access to capital, fewer barriers to entry and greater freedom to grow.
That's why my office provides small business forums on financing, marketing and networking. That's why my commission for women connects Texas businesswomen to contracting opportunities. And that's why I approved more than $2 million for Texas Woman's University to establish a center for women in business.
Women investing in themselves and inspiring change in others represent the greatest potential for job growth. That's why my aspiration as Governor is to make Texas the #1 state for women-owned businesses.
We want you to succeed. We need you to succeed. When you succeed, America succeeds.
All that we ask is that you keep growing your businesses, keep hiring and keep Texas in your future business plans.
May God bless you and your families and may God forever bless the United States of America.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/21470
