Public Statements
Governor Abbott Delivers Remarks At 87th Annual Texas FFA Convention
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: July 16, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott today attended the 87th Annual Texas FFA Convention in Corpus Christi, TX to congratulate 2015 FFA scholarship winners and celebrate the accomplishments of Texas FFA students, teachers and the state agriculture industry as a whole.
"Through drought and flood, Texas has long grown from the bounty of the land -- that's our proud heritage here in the Lone Star State," said Governor Abbott. "And you are the stewards of our future. Looking at this group of FFA members, I'm confident about the future leaders of Texas. The lessons you learn through the FFA, the values you share, will prepare you to lead this state and the nation. Texas is the greatest state in America and we are counting on you to keep it that way."
Governor Abbott's Remarks:
**Gov. Abbott often deviates from prepared remarks.
Thank you, Gracie Hedrick -- thank you for your service as President of Texas FFA. Sam Houston State University is lucky to have you.
Congratulations to the new officer candidates and to all of today's scholarship winners.
It's an honor to join you today.
It's no surprise that the Texas FFA is the largest in the nation. Texas leads the nation in number of farms and ranches. We are #1 in cattle and cotton, in sheep and goats, and in hay and mohair.
Through drought and flood, Texas has long grown from the bounty of the land. That's our proud heritage here in the Lone Star State. And you are the stewards of our future. Looking at this group of FFA members, I'm confident about the future leaders of Texas.
The lessons you learn through the FFA, the values you share, will prepare you to lead this state and the nation. Texas is the greatest state in America and we are counting on you to keep it that way.
Texas remains the state where the improbable can become the possible. That's the story of people like Dick Wallrath with us today. He rose from big challenges to build a tremendously successful business. Dick Wallrath now generously shares with you his legacy of perseverance and true Texas grit. As the largest individual donor to the Texas FFA scholarship program, Dick Wallrath is investing in you so that you can learn to do, do to learn, earn to live and live to serve.
Like Dick Wallrath, I am proof that in Texas, anyone can achieve anything. Even rise to the highest office. A few weeks after graduating from law school I was out jogging when a tree fell on my back, leaving me instantly paralyzed. And I know what you're thinking -- just how slow was that guy jogging?
In overcoming that accident and going on to be a Judge, Attorney General and then Governor, I found that our lives don't have to be defined by our circumstances. Instead we can determine our lives by our character. I learned that deep within each of us lies the character that allows us to conquer our circumstances.
And without dreams, there is no need to work. Without work, there is no need to dream. Success requires both big aspirations to dream great things and the work ethic to achieve them. You have both.
As you continue on in your education and pursue your dreams, your lives will be filled with exciting twists and turns. You'll have many more achievements and -- inevitably -- you will face many challenges. But those challenges don't determine your destiny -- you do.
Your lives won't be defined by how you are challenged, instead by how you respond to life's challenges. Wherever your paths may lead, whatever you may do after leaving here, in the end it won't matter if you are rich or poor. It won't matter where you live or what you do for a living. It won't even matter whether you can walk.
What will matter is the unique fingerprint you leave on this world. Ultimately, your life is measured by the fingerprints you leave behind.
We look forward to watching the paths you take and the unique imprint you leave on this world. And we know you will continue to make Texas and America great.
Congratulations to today's scholarship winners and to all FFA members. May God bless you all with bright futures. And may God forever bless the great State of Texas.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/21213
