Public Statements
Governor Abbott In New York: Day Two
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: July 14, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott began his second day in New York City by ringing the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange, where more than 280 Texas-based businesses are listed on the market and represent over $2 trillion in market capitalization.
Following the opening bell, Governor Abbott discussed the strength of Texas' economic model on CNBC's Squawk on the Street and how the Lone Star State's diversified economy has managed not only to sustain itself, but to create jobs despite a global downturn in oil prices.
Governor Abbott also appeared on Bloomberg Markets and The Bloomberg Advantage, where he discussed the many reasons why Texas remains the best state in the nation to live and do business in.
Newsmax TV: Newsmax Prime
"The failure here is Washington, D.C. The entity responsible for securing the border, for our immigration system are the leaders in Washington, D.C. and they have been an abject failure. But Texas has stepped up and done what Washington, D.C. should have done. Texas stepped up and secured our border this past session where we spent $800 million to ensure that we have a secure border."
CNBC: Squawk on the Street
"Texas has continued to grow jobs because we have a very vast and diversified economy. We lead the nation in technology exports. We have the largest medical center in the entire world. Today in Arlington, Texas, General Motors is investing $1.4 billion in another manufacturing facility. We run the gamut as far as a broad-based economy is concerned and that's why we're here attracting even more businesses to Texas."
Bloomberg TV: Bloomberg Markets
"What state do you think leads the nation in technology exports? Most people would think California, but it is the state of Texas. We have a diversified economy and we are doing an even better job to attract more businesses outside of the oil and gas sector."
Bloomberg Radio: The Bloomberg Advantage
"People vote with their feet--and they're voting by coming to the state of Texas because we offer opportunity, because Texas is the quintessential entrepreneurial state. If you want to look at the macro picture, there are so many entrepreneurs who want to start a business, grow a business unfettered by overreaching, heavy-handed government regulations--Texas is that kind of place."

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/21203
