Public Statements
Governor Abbott Presents Lone Star Medal of Valor Award
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: July 6, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott today presented the Lone Star Medal of Valor Award to Werner W. "Ronnie" Reininger, CPL., USMC (retired) in San Antonio, Texas. The Lone Star Medal of Valor is an esteemed military service decoration awarded to an active member or veteran of the United States Armed Services who has demonstrated outstanding bravery and heroism while serving.
"It is my distinct honor on behalf of the people of Texas to present the Lone Star Medal of Valor to Sergeant Ronnie Reininger," Governor Abbott said. "Sgt. Reininger displayed selfless service, leadership and dedication to duty above and beyond. His repeated acts of valor inspired others to fight on and are in keeping with the highest traditions of the Marine Corps and military forces of Texas."
Governor Abbott's Lone Star Medal Of Valor Remarks:
**Gov. Abbott often deviates from prepared remarks.
Thank you Major Harry Preston for your 21 years of service to our nation and the United States Marine Corps. It's a privilege to be here today. Perhaps no better time as we paused to celebrate the founding of our nation this weekend to honor a true American hero.
America is the brightest beacon of freedom the world has ever known because of men like Sergeant Werner Walter Reininger and all who've worn with honor the uniform of the mightiest military in the history of the world.
At just 19 years of age, Ronnie Reininger enlisted in the U.S. Marine Reserves. Two years later, in the winter of 1950, this son of a grocer was a world away from his hometown in San Antonio, Texas. Ronnie Reininger was repelling enemy attacks on the frozen tundra of the Chosin Reservoir in North Korea. The temperature was 30 degrees below zero. Our Marines were surrounded and outnumbered by Chinese troops. But the United States Marine Corps is never outmanned.
Then-Corporal Reininger displayed extraordinary courage. As the Fifth Marines made a heroic stand, Cpl. Reininger fearlessly moved his machine gun section along the hillsides to protect the road on which thousands of Marines were traveling.
His regiment beat off attack after attack after attack. With enemy troops all around, there was no front, no rear and no flank. Cpl. Reininger boldly turned his machine gun around to direct withering fire over the heads of his fellow Marines. When condensation caused his gun to jam, Cpl. Reininger repeatedly exposed his bare hands to clear his weapons, and each time his fingers froze a little deeper. Yet still he fought on.
On December 6, 1950, his Section came under intense mortar fire. An enemy round blew him out of his defensive position. But Cpl. Reininger crawled back to his machine gun. And he fought on.
As he drew fire away from his Regiment, another mortar round burst in front of his position again, knocking him down. But Cpl. Reininger again crawled back to his gun to discover he was the only gunner left. Yet still he fought on.
Alone in the winter darkness, Cpl. Reininger continued firing his machine gun at the advancing Chinese loading belt after belt after belt of ammunition until he ran out. He then picked up his service rifle to continue the fight until another mortar round exploded directly in his position, severing his right leg and shredding his previously wounded left leg.
When found later by a Marine patrol on the rough, frozen land, Cpl. Reining was declared dead until he coughed and spit out his dog tag which had been placed in his mouth. Once evacuated from Korea to Japan and then back to the States, Ronnie underwent 16 surgeries. Eventually he lost both legs and all of his fingers. Yet still he fought on.
Sgt. Reininger displayed selfless service, leadership and dedication to duty above and beyond. His repeated acts of valor inspired others to fight on and are in keeping with the highest traditions of the Marine Corps and military forces of Texas. Though medically retired, he has continually given back to the military community, especially to Marine Corps veterans in San Antonio. And the Korean War memorial would not stand eternal "Night Watch" on Memorial Plaza here in San Antonio if not for Sgt. Reininger's determination.
With his beloved wife Jeanette by his side, Sgt. Reininger chose to live the credo that character -- not circumstances -- makes the man.
Sergeant, you are an inspiration to your family, your daughter Sandy, with us today, your son Steven, your grandchildren and great grandchildren and to us all. The First Lady of Texas joins me in thanking you for your service to our country. Your extraordinary bravery, determination and devotion to your brothers in arms embodies the true definition of a Texas hero. America and the cause of freedom around the world have been made stronger by your service and sacrifice.
It is my distinct honor on behalf of the people of Texas to present the highest military decoration awarded to a member of the U.S. Armed Services in this great state, the Lone Star Medal of Valor, to Sgt. Ronnie Reininger.
May God bless you and may God forever bless the United States of America.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/21167
