Public Statements
Governor Abbott Addresses Fort Worth Metropolitan Black Chamber Of Commerce 35th Annual Awards Luncheon
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: June 19, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

Thank you for the powerful role you're playing in propelling Texas to the economic pinnacle of the United States. Texas added more jobs last year than any year in history. Texas has been the top exporting state for 13 years and has ranked as the Best State for Doing Business for 11 years in a row. Texas has the 2nd fastest growth in businesses owned by women and African-American women. And as the Wall Street Journal reported this week, despite the plunge in oil prices, the Texas economy continues to thrive because of the booming DFW region.
The truth is Texas is exceptional and you are a big reason why. You're the entrepreneurs and the risk takers, the people with a dream and work ethic to achieve it.
Our job is to keep Texas the land of opportunity where the improbable becomes the possible. Let's face it, for me to rise to the Governorship of this great state was highly improbable. Not long after Cecilia and I were married, we faced a daunting challenge. I realized, in the words of Booker T. Washington that "character -- not circumstances -- makes the man."
Those wise words take on extra meaning on this special day as we celebrate the 150th anniversary of Juneteenth, the day that word of President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation finally made it to Texas.
It's a day that celebrates when a country conquered the inhumanity of slavery. It's a celebration of the long path to freedom, from the Civil War to the Civil Rights movement, to today.
In recognition of this significant moment, I'm proud to tell you that earlier today I authorized a specialty license plate in Texas commemorating Juneteenth. This shows where Texas stands -- we stand for liberty -- for everyone.
But to treat this as only a one-day event is not enough. If we are to truly elevate Texas to its true potential, we must expand liberty and opportunity on an everyday basis.
That includes economic empowerment. One of the best things government can do is to let you keep more of your own money. If you run a business or own a home, you just got a tax cut in Texas that will let you keep more of your money.
We cut more than $4 billion in taxes and fees. We cut the business franchise tax by 25%, increased the homestead exemption to $25,000 and eliminated occupational license fees for over 600,000 professionals.
To stimulate more economic activity in low-income areas, I signed a law authorizing Banking Development Districts. This law was authored by Senator Royce West and Representative Eric Johnson. The law promotes establishing banks and credit unions in areas that are underserved by financial institutions. The goal is to promote more access to capital and thus empower more economic freedom for more Texans.
I will also continue attracting jobs to Texas by using the Texas Enterprise Fund. The first deal I closed using that fund was just down the road in Grapevine, where Kubota Tractor moved its headquarters from California, bringing hundreds of new jobs to this area.
This chamber can count on me to be your strongest ally in economic development. I'll work with this organization's leaders -- and business leaders across Fort Worth -- to help you attract and keep jobs.
I will also work tirelessly to ensure the next generation has an opportunity to prosper. "Education is the key to unlock the golden door of freedom." Those were the words of a man born a slave, orphaned as an infant and denied schooling until he was 12. But George Washington Carver became a scientist, an inventor and an educator a man sought after for his great mind.
As Governor, my goal is to make the Texas education system #1 in America. We've already seen that excellence can be achieved. In Dallas, African-American and Hispanic students pass Advanced Placement exams at a higher rate than in any large urban district in America. The Irving Independent School District was recognized as the 2015 Advanced Placement District of the Year in the nation. And we have the highest high school graduation rate for black students in the nation.
But there's more we must do. That's why I pushed for laws that put students on a path to read and do math at or above grade level by the time they finish 3rd grade.
And to ensure more students can climb the ladder of success, we passed laws making college more affordable for more families.
We're also working to expand our skilled workforce with community colleges. For many, a two-year degree is far more than a piece of paper. It's a key that opens the door to economic freedom.
By making education a priority, we will live up to the ideal that every child has a chance to dream and to achieve.
But not all of the answers are in Austin. Answers can be found in our communities, in our churches and in programs like Paths Forward. By your service, preparing the next generation to lead, you are building a solid foundation for the future of our state.
That future is yet to be written. You and all of our children should be is authors. Thank you for all that you are doing. When you succeed, Texas succeeds.
May God bless you and your families, and may God forever bless the great State of Texas.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/21066
