Public Statements
Governor Abbott Requests Presidential Disaster Declaration For Texas Counties
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: May 29, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott today requested a Presidential Disaster Declaration as a result of the damage sustained from the severe weather, tornado and flooding that began on May 4, 2015 and continues across the state.
"Communities across the State of Texas have experienced devastating destruction, injury and -- most tragically -- loss of life due to the major and unceasing severe weather system that has been impacting our state for weeks," said Governor Abbott. "I am extremely proud of the way that our first responders, local officials, law enforcement and Texas citizens have come together to protect and support one another in this time of crisis. I am requesting disaster assistance from the federal government to ensure that families, businesses and communities who have experienced hardship as a result of these severe storms have access to all possible resources as they recover and rebuild."
Governor Abbott is requesting Individual Assistance for Harris, Hays and Van Zandt counties. Individual Assistance provides affected residents and businesses access to Disaster Housing, Disaster Grants, Low-Interest Disaster Loans, and other disaster aid programs including crisis counseling, disaster-related unemployment assistance, legal aid and assistance with income tax, Social Security and Veteran's benefits.
Governor Abbott is requesting Public Assistance for Cooke, Gaines, Grimes, Harris, Hays, Navarro and Van Zandt counties. Public Assistance is aid to state or local governments to pay part of the costs of rebuilding a community's damaged infrastructure, which may include debris removal, emergency protective measures and public services, repair of damaged public property, loans needed by communities for essential government functions and grants for public schools. Generally, public assistance programs pay for 75 percent of the approved project costs.
Additional counties may be added to the Governor's request once they meet the threshold required by the federal government to request federal disaster aid.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/20970
