Public Statements
ICYMI: Governor Abbott On The Laura Ingraham Show
Interview
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: April 23, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott today joined The Laura Ingraham Show to discuss the ongoing lawsuit against the Obama Administration's executive amnesty order and the importance of securing the border, among other issues.
Excerpts from the interview:
"Currently there are still more than 10,000 people coming across the border each and every month unauthorized. And again, we are seeing an explosion of people coming here from countries other than Mexico and an increase in the number of people coming from what are called "countries of interest'--these are countries that have ties to terrorism.
"And we have very serious problems on the border -- which is why I am working on a package where Texas is going to step up and do what the federal government has failed to do -- we're going to increase our border security, we're going to add close to a billion dollars in funding from state dollars so that we will secure our border.
"Remember this one last fact, Laura, and that is -- these people don't just mysteriously show up, they show up because they are paying a heavy price to the drug cartels who are bringing them here.
"Our goal is to put the drug cartels out of business, make them lose money in trying to bring people here and their smuggling and trafficking operations, and make them take their business elsewhere.
"I am trying to get all the presidential candidates to come to Texas -- I'll even give a tour to Hillary Clinton. I want every single one of them to know and see firsthand what is going on.
"We take them up in the air, we take them on the ground, we take them on the river -- we show before their very eyes these people who are coming across the border unauthorized. We see how their own laws and their own sovereignty are being violated, and so our goal is to help all these candidates understand what is really taking place on the ground and my demand as the Governor of Texas is that they step up and fix this problem.
"I am going to be working as strongly as I can to oppose anybody who is not going to first secure our border and I am going to strongly advocate the necessity that whoever is elected president step up and do the fundamental job of the federal government -- which is to protect our sovereignty."

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/20790
