Public Statements
Stevie Ray Vaughan To Be Inducted Into Rock And Roll Hall Of Fame
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: April 17, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

Texas native and legendary blues musician Stevie Ray Vaughan will be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame on Saturday, April 18 in Cleveland, Ohio. Vaughan and his band Double Trouble will be initiated into the Hall of Fame by fellow musician John Mayer and alongside Lou Reed, Green Day, Joan Jett & the Blackhearts, the Paul Butterfield Blues Band and Bill Withers.
Critically acclaimed guitarist Jimmie Vaughan, Stevie's older brother, will accept the induction on Stevie's behalf. "I'm excited Stevie is being inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. It's a wonderful thing. I think his fans are going to love it and our parents would be so proud of him," said Vaughan.
"The State of Texas boasts a rich history of producing and nurturing extraordinary musical talent, and legendary guitarist Stevie Ray Vaughan is no exception," said Governor Greg Abbott. "This is a well-deserved honor for Stevie Ray, whose lasting memory and influence is still felt long after his passing."
Although Vaughan's roots were in Dallas, his music career took off in the "live music capital of world" -- Austin. His playing ignited a resurgence in blues music and influenced a generation of young guitar players.
A voting body of more than 700 artists and members of the music industry chose the 2015 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame performer inductees. In order to be eligible, an individual artist or band must have released its first single or album at least 25 years prior to the year of nomination. Vaughan and Double Trouble released the album "Texas Flood" in 1983 making them eligible for their well-deserved nomination. Vaughan won five W.C. Handy Awards and was inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000. He was also one of the first inductees to the new Austin City Limits Hall of Fame earlier this year. Stevie and Jimmie Vaughan's album, Family Style, sold over one million copies.
Jimmie Vaughan, Stevie Ray's older brother, will accept the induction on his behalf. The broadcast of the ceremony will air on HBO on May 30, 2015.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/20774
