Public Statements
Governor Abbott Attends Fort Hood Purple Heart Medal Ceremony
Statement
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: April 10, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott today attended the Purple Heart and Defense of Freedom Medal Ceremony honoring the victims of the 2009 Fort Hood terrorist attack. Governor Abbott was joined by members of the Texas Congressional delegation who helped to secure the medals, distinguished members of the United States Army, survivors of the Fort Hood attack and the families of the victims. Following the ceremony, Governor Abbott made the following statement:
"Texas is proud to be the home of Fort Hood. Texas is a state that deeply embraces the men and women who wear the uniform of the Unites States Military. We are honored that we have the opportunity to recognize these men and women. It is a shame that this day even has to occur. It is a shame that we have military men and women that fight for our freedoms overseas against terrorism only to come home and be the victims of terrorism on their own bases. It's essential that we work as a nation to ensure that no man or woman who wears the United States Military uniform is going to be victimized by terrorism at their own base.
"Today is a celebration of those who have worn the uniform. It is a celebration of the ways in which the men and women who were victims of this attack and those who responded to it came together. It is a celebration of the ways in which those in the surrounding community stepped forward to aid those whom they admire and respect so very much. But today is also a reality because Texas is blessed with great members of the United States Congress. Members who fought for years to ensure that the rightful recognition of our military members would be achieved. I want to applaud our Senators and Members of the House of Representatives for their tireless efforts to ensure that those who have served get the recognition they deserve.
"We are a grateful nation and we are a grateful state knowing that we celebrate freedom today because of those men and women who put their lives on the line to ensure that freedom."

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/20743
