Public Statements
forbes.com - Gov. Greg Abbott: Texas Means Business
Op-Ed
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: March 9, 2015
Location: Unknown

By Greg Abbott
Texas is once again the top state for job-creating capital investment projects.
We have built a framework that allows free enterprise to flourish, including less government, low taxes, reasonable regulations and the right-to-work laws that attract job creators and keep job growth here in the state of Texas. As governor, I intend to do more to build an even stronger business environment.
Tracked by Site Selection magazine, the 689 capital investment projects completed in 2014, the most of any state, represent a significant investment of a minimum of $1 million per project, with 20 jobs or more created by each new or expanded corporate facility.
This banner year for economic development was celebrated with Site Selection's presentation on Monday of the annual Governor's Cup--the third in a row for the Lone Star State and the sixth since 2004.
Showing the geographic breadth of these capital investments, Odessa, Houston and Dallas were also named among the top metro areas for business facilities growth.
I was honored to accept this coveted award on behalf of the job creators and community economic leaders in Texas and the hardest working job force in the world. But we cannot be complacent and rest on past accomplishments. Challenges remain.
Texas will defend our championship title in the coming years with policies promoting even greater economic development.
To attract even more businesses and encourage even more Texas entrepreneurs to invest their capital in themselves by opening a business or growing a business, I am committed to reducing taxes for employers and property owners.
My priorities also include reducing the regulatory burden that drives up the cost of doing business--especially for small businesses, women-owned businesses and veteran-owned businesses.
We will speed up the permitting process to help businesses get their projects done faster. We will invest in the roads needed to keep commerce moving without raising fees, tolls, taxes or debt. And we will ensure our students are equipped with both the technical skills and critical-thinking skills employers demand for the jobs growing here in Texas.
With clear economic development policies focused on creating jobs and expanding opportunity, we will take Texas to the next level for business recruitment. We expect to have businesses from around the world knocking on the door to set up operations here in Texas.
Texas is the top state for capital investments, for job creation, for exports, for energy production and more. The Texas model is proof that limited government encourages unlimited opportunity for all. By limiting the size and scope of government, controlling spending, reducing debt and removing barriers to business growth, we unleash job creation and innovation.
When it comes to doing business, there really is no place like Texas. And we intend to make it even better.

Source: http://www.forbes.com/sites/realspin/2015/03/09/gov-greg-abbott-texas-means-business/
