Public Statements
Governor Abbott Appoints Two To Texas Transportation Commission
Press Release
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: Feb. 13, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

Governor Greg Abbott today announced the appointments of J. Bruce Bugg Jr. of San Antonio and Tryon Dexter Lewis of Odessa to the Texas Transportation Commission, which governs the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) for terms to expire February 1, 2021.
Governor Greg Abbott issued the following statement:
"Reliable transportation infrastructure is vital to the economic growth and success of the state of Texas. Bruce Bugg and Tryon Lewis will be effective voices for accelerating economic expansion, growing jobs and improving infrastructure without raising taxes, fees or tolls. I look forward to working with them in providing permanent solutions to our state's transportation challenges."
J. Bruce Bugg, Jr. is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Argyle Investment Co., LLC, a private investment firm and serves as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., President and CEO of Texas Hill Country Bancshares, Inc. and as Chairman of the Board of The Bank of San Antonio. In 1984, Bugg founded Southwest Bankers, Inc., a bank holding company formed to acquire and own the original Bank of San Antonio, where he served as Director, President and Chief Executive Officer. He then served as Vice Chairman of First Southwest Company and Chairman of the Investment Banking Group of First Southwest Company in Dallas, Texas until he formed Argyle Investment Co., LLC in 1997. From 1998 until September 2006, Bugg served on the Board of Directors of Consolidated Water Co., Ltd. (NASDAQ: CWCO) on the Audit, Nominating and Strategic Planning Committees. Bugg currently serves as Chairman and Trustee of The Tobin Endowment, a private charitable foundation in San Antonio, Texas, Chairman of the Bexar County Performing Arts Center Foundation, member of the Board of Trustees of the McNay Art Museum, board member of Greater San Antonio Chamber of Commerce, Trustee of St. Mary's Hall and former Trustee of the Texas Research and Technology Foundation. He is former Chairman of the Board of Governors of Cancer Therapy & Research Center.
Tryon Dexter Lewis of Odessa is a former State Representative from Texas' 81st District, serving from 2008-2015. Prior to serving in the Texas Legislature, Rep. Lewis practiced law in Odessa from 1973-1984 with a primary emphasis on civil litigation. In 1985, Rep. Lewis took office as a State District Judge of the 16P District and served in that capacity until February of 2006, after which he returned to practicing law. During Rep. Lewis' legislative career he served as the Chairman of the Judiciary and Civil Jurisprudence Committee from 2013-2015 and was the Co-Chair of the Joint House Senate Committee on Judicial Selection in 2014. Rep. Lewis is currently a partner at Atkins, Hollman Jones, Peacock, Lewis & Lyon Law Firm.
These appointments are subject to Senate confirmation.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/20532
