Public Statements
Gov. Abbott Visits Rio Grande Valley, Addresses Announcement Of United Health Foundation Grant To UTRGV Medical School
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: Jan. 23, 2015
Location: Austin, TX

Thank you, Steve Hemsley, and to United Health Foundation, for making Texas even better. Thanks to today's hosts, including the Doctors Hospital at Renaissance.
It's great to be with so many of my partners from the Legislature here today, and it's good to be back in the Rio Grande Valley.
My first trip after the election was to the Rio Grande Valley, and now my first trip after my Inauguration is to the Rio Grande Valley. There's a reason for that; the Rio Grande Valley plays such an important role for the future of this great state.
With SpaceX coming to Brownsville, UTRGV enrolling its first class this Fall, and with the new Medical School at UTRGV coming in 2016 there is probably no region poised for greater advancement.
Texas is proud to claim a lot of number one rankings -- for jobs, for energy, for exports, for so many things -- yet we know too many live on the fringe of opportunity.
Too many struggle because of health care challenges, and that struggle is perhaps greatest in the colonias.
To build healthier families in the Rio Grande Valley, we need to expand access to improved health care, especially for those most at risk.
That is why I am so pleased to be here today to help announce that United Health Foundation is granting $2.9 million to our new UTRGV School of Medicine.
These funds will jumpstart the new medical school, and help create a multi-year program and coordinate the services of doctors, health care providers, academic institutions and hospitals. This program will also improve health care delivery to two at-risk colonias.
The true measure of United Health Foundation's generous grant is not in dollars, but in the healing power it brings to families who struggle to meet even basic needs.
I can think of no better partners to coordinate this expanded access to team-based health care than UTRGV, your President, Dr. Guy Bailey and Medical School Dean, Dr. Francisco Fernandez.
UTRGV Medical School will educate the doctors of tomorrow, offering students in the Valley the power to learn, and the power to heal.
I cannot help but think back 30 years ago, when I laid in a hospital bed with a broken back, wondering if I would ever be able to do anything in this world.
It was an improbable journey, from that Houston hospital to the Governor's Office, but I made it because of the healing power of doctors, nurses and physical therapists -- because of a team approach to healing.
Just think of how many more public servants, teachers, store clerks and Texans would be involved at every level if we can improve access to health care and healing.
A healthier tomorrow for more Texas families is within reach. By investing in innovation and encouraging more private investments like this one we can expand access to quality health care for those who need it most.
I have proposed detailed policies to expand access, improve care and keep health care costs from continuing to spiral. One of those proposals will increase the number of residency positions in our state so doctors educated at UTRGV continue to train and practice in Texas.
I hope to see legislation on my desk from my partners here today reflecting those policy ideas and more.
Again, I congratulate United Health Foundation and UTRGV School of Medicine for their efforts to improve our health system, expand our health workforce and bring care closer to the communities served.
Thank you.

Source: http://gov.texas.gov/news/press-release/20423
