Public Statements
San Antonio Express News - The New Governor's Agenda Ahead
News Article
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: Dec. 15, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Greg Abbott
The new year brings new beginnings, and I am ready to get to work to ensure greater opportunity for all Texans.
When I announced my run for governor in San Antonio, it was a homecoming in many ways. San Antonio is where Cecilia and I were married. It is where she grew up, where her parents still live and where my brother, Gary, lives with his family since retiring from the Navy.
While traveling across the state, I've met so many hardworking Texans like you. It's been my privilege to shake your hand, look you in the eye, and listen to your concerns and hopes for the future.
As Texans, the bonds we share transcend our differences. It doesn't matter what your race, religion or ZIP code is. In this state, we are all Texans.
We look to the horizon and see opportunities unbounded. We look to our families and see cultures blended and strong. And we look to the future and ask: How do we give all of our children lives worthy of their promise?
Texas offers that promise. I am living proof. We live in a state where a young man's life can be broken in half, yet he can rise to heights greater than once dreamed possible.
Planning for the future
On election night, when I was honored to accept the job of governor, I made a promise to you, the people of Texas. I promised to keep Texas the beacon of opportunity and the best state in the United States of America.
I have created a blueprint for an even better Texas of tomorrow that looks ahead to 2036, when we will commemorate the bicentennial of Texas independence.
We will look back at 200 years of a rich, storied past. We will honor the sacrifices of the Alamo defenders and the victory at San Jacinto that gave birth to a Republic. We will celebrate the frontier spirit of rugged individualism that allowed generations of Texans to pioneer the way in the oil patch, on ranchlands and ultimately into outer space. And we will marvel at the entrepreneurial spirit that created the nation's greatest economy.

Source: http://www.gregabbott.com/new-governors-agenda-ahead/
