Public Statements
I Am Your Candidate
Statement
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: Nov. 3, 2014
Location: Unknown

Tomorrow, the voters of Texas will decide what they want the future of this state to look like.
It's the most important day of this campaign -- everything we have worked so hard for since I announced my campaign for governor last summer.
Your support has meant so much to Cecilia and I. And I'm asking you to do one last thing for us -- get out to the polls tomorrow and vote!
If you've already voted early, like Cecilia and I did last week, we thank you greatly for your commitment and support! Another thing you can do to help is forward this page to your friends and family to remind them of how important tomorrow is to the future of this state.
We need you to vote, so that our vision for the Texas of tomorrow can become a reality. And that vision is more freedom and more opportunity for all.
If there is one single area we can improve in that gives children of all backgrounds a better chance at the future, it's education. We will help all Texans climb the ladder of success -- not with unfunded mandates, but by returning genuine local control to our schools and our parents. My plan sets the vision to ensure the next generation of Texas children excel and prosper.
Our fight is not with another candidate or party -- it's a fight for the very future of every Texan -- and I will never stop fighting for your future.
For Texans looking for leadership that doesn't take them for granted -- that speaks to their highest hopes and deepest concerns -- I am your candidate.
For Texans wary of modern politics, who want candidates to say what they are for, not just what they are against -- I am your candidate.
And for Texans looking for a champion of Texas values for a leader who won't back down from the fight for liberty -- I am your candidate.
As your governor, I will keep Texas the land of opportunity, where hopes and dreams can still be realized, and where more freedom and less government still matters.
That's why I need you to vote tomorrow so we can do more than just win one more election -- we will win the next generation.
God bless you, and God bless Texas.
Greg Abbott
P.S. Remember, the polls open tomorrow at 7 a.m. and close at 7 p.m.!

Source: http://www.gregabbott.com/candidate/
