Public Statements
Governor Abbott Applauds Sen. Huffines, Rep. Goldman's Intention To Author Mobile Device Preemption Legislation
Statement
By: Don Huffines Craig Goldman Gregory Abbott
Date: June 30, 2017
Location: Austin, TX

In the upcoming special legislative session, Sen. Don Huffines and Rep. Craig Goldman will author legislation to preempt all local ordinances that regulate mobile devices in vehicles. This issue was one of the 20 items Governor Abbott previously announced will be added to the special session agenda. Governor Abbott thanked Sen. Huffines and Rep. Goldman for spearheading this issue.
"Now that Texas has passed a statewide texting while driving ban, I am calling for legislation that fully preempts cities and counties from any regulation of mobile devices in vehicles," said Governor Abbott. "We do not need a patchwork quilt of regulations that dictate driving practices throughout the state. Sen. Huffines and Rep. Goldman have stepped up to author legislation to fix this issue, and I am grateful for their leadership."
"Across the state of Texas, we're currently micromanaging drivers with a confusing and inconsistent mix of local ordinances," said Sen. Huffines. "The rules of the road should be consistent across our great state, which is why we must get local regulators' hands off of hands-free ordinances. This is an important step to finish the job we started by banning texting while driving. Drivers may sometimes need a lifeline that they can legally use in an emergency or to communicate with family. That's why we need to stop sending mixed signals to drivers. I look forward to working with Governor Greg Abbott, Representative Craig Goldman, and our colleagues in the Legislature to make it clear that although drivers must put down the text when they're behind the wheel, they can still pick up the phone as a safer alternative."
"Texas drivers should not face a patchwork quilt of local regulations micromanaging how they use their mobile devices in their cars and trucks," said Rep. Goldman. "Now that a statewide texting while driving ban has been enacted, these local ordinances should be preempted so that there is a single, uniform statewide standard and Texas drivers are not subjected to unnecessary traffic tickets just because they don't know every ordinance in every town and city across our great State."

Source: https://gov.texas.gov/news/post/governor-abbott-applauds-sen.-huffines-rep.-goldmans-intention-to-author-mo
