Public Statements
Monitor - Commentary: Greg Abbott: Keeping Texans Secure: Border Buildup Necessary for Safety
Op-Ed
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: Aug. 11, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Greg Abbott
One life lost, one woman or child raped because of a border that is not secure is one too many. As governor, I will marshal the tools we need to secure our border and ensure Texas' safety.
Because the federal government has failed to act, Texas will take all action possible to secure our border and ensure the safety of all Texans.
Texas is adding DPS officers, Texas Rangers and personnel from my office plus the National Guard to our surge operation. All are committed to working with local law enforcement and the U.S. Border Patrol to better secure the border. And I will use all legal means to recoup the costs to Texas taxpayers.
But there is more we must do.
As Americans, we can disagree on the causes of the massive wave of immigrants crossing illegally into Texas, but there is no doubt that organized criminal networks are playing a significant role in this crisis.
Human smugglers are profiting at great costs to their victims. Charging $5,000 per person or more, it is estimated that the drug cartels, smugglers, gangs and coyotes are generating billions of dollars in profit each year.
But those numbers don't tell the whole story.
In stash houses next door to schools, businesses and homes, local law enforcement officers around the state are rescuing men, women and children smuggled across the U.S.-Mexico border. Now held captive in stench and squalor, without food or water, they are tortured, sexually assaulted and threatened with death as the smugglers extort their families.
Even as we focus on the humanitarian crisis caused by the unaccompanied children at the border, this human smuggling horror story is repeated every day in communities all across Texas.
In a smuggling case in Brownsville, U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen wrote about the problem, the causes and the effects. He issued an order detailing how our own federal government is aiding and abetting this illegal smuggling practice.
After sentencing a woman for attempting to illegally smuggle a 10-year-old El Salvadoran girl into the United States, Judge Hanen explained: "Instead of enforcing the laws of the United States, the government took direct steps to help the individuals who violated it."
I have unveiled new recommendations to deter criminal smuggling enterprises and ensure a more effective law enforcement response than the federal government is providing.
If approved by the Texas Legislature, these changes to state law will update and expand the definition of human smuggling to match the realities on the ground.
It will add new offenses for conspiracy to smuggle or aiding and abetting smuggling. It will increase penalties for smuggling a minor. It will toughen penalties for smuggling that result in sexual assault, serious injury or death. And it will add a new offense for continuous smuggling, which can be a first-degree felony.
The cartels, smugglers, coyotes and criminal enterprises have forced their victims -- and Americans -- to pay a heavy price.
It's time to turn the tables.
Texas will now impose a heavy price on anyone who is involved in human smuggling.
The costs to them must be raised too high for this inhumanity and public safety threat to Texas and the nation to continue.
We stand ready to welcome the more than four million people who are waiting in line to come to America. Many will call Texas home. Their sacrifices are dishonored when illegal immigration flourishes and violent, criminal networks profit.
I invite you to read my detailed plan to secure all Texans at www.TexasBlueprint.com.
Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott is running for the Republican gubernatorial nomination.

Source: http://www.themonitor.com/opinion/commentary-greg-abbott-keeping-texans-secure-border-buildup-necessary-for/article_1f5306b8-1f4c-11e4-a8a2-001a4bcf6878.html
