Public Statements
Dallas Morning News' Trail Blazers Blog - Abbott Blasts Obama on Economic Policy, Immigration Ahead of President's Speech
News Article
By: Gregory Abbott
Date: July 10, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Brittney Martin
Hours before Barack Obama is slated to discuss the economy Thursday in Austin, Greg Abbott said the president is "all talk and no action."
The attorney general and GOP candidate for governor spoke to the media and supporters about women in business at a woman-owned coffee shop in Austin, and said the president could learn a lot from the Texas model.
"President Obama truly can get the American economy growing again, and it can help create millions of more jobs, but to do that, he will have to do more than just come to Austin, TX and give speeches," Abbott said. "He will have to saddle up and adopt the Texas economic model."
He later told the News that he is glad Obama is ready to allocate $3.7 billion to address the influx of unaccompanied children on the border, but does not agree with the president's plans to use the money.
"I think the way that he is allocating those resources actually band-aids over the problem and maybe even encourages the problem to continue," Abbott said.
Abbott said adding more border patrol units along the state's southern border is necessary to avoid situations like this in the future. He said talks of comprehensive immigration reform wouldn't be a point of focus until the border is secured.
"Unless and until we see a commitment to secure the border, all these other concepts are completely hypothetical and meaningless because people will continue to come here from around the globe unless and until they see that attempts to come here in an unauthorized way are fruitless," Abbott said.
Along with securing the border, Abbott said sending the children back is necessary to stop more people from traveling to the border in the future.
"If people realized that if they traveled 1000 miles away from home only to be sent back, they will not make that treacherous track anymore," Abbott said.

Source: http://trailblazersblog.dallasnews.com/2014/07/abbott-blasts-obama-on-economic-policy-immigration-ahead-of-presidents-speech.html/
