Public Statements
Governor Abbott Applauds Sen. Hall, Rep. Workman's Intention To Author Legislation Preventing Cities From Regulating Trees On Private Land
Statement
By: Bob Hall Paul Workman Gregory Abbott
Date: June 28, 2017
Location: Austin, TX

In the upcoming special legislative session, Sen. Bob Hall and Rep. Paul Workman will author legislation to prevent cities from regulating what property owners do with trees on private land. This is one of 20 items that Governor Abbott previously announced will be added to the special session agenda. Governor Abbott thanked Sen. Hall and Rep. Workman for fighting on behalf of property owners in Texas.
"Government has a responsibility to protect the rights of its citizens," said Governor Abbott. "Unfortunately, local governments throughout Texas are infringing on private property rights and prohibiting Texans from being able to do what they want with their own land. That is why I have added this item to my special session call, and I'm grateful to Sen. Hall and Rep. Workman for their efforts to end this regulatory overreach."
"Local tree ordinances blatantly violate individual property rights by saying that you don't actually own or control natural resources on property that you have purchased. This uncompensated taking of private property directly contradicts Article 1, Section 17 of the Texas Constitution and can increase the cost of housing in certain areas. I am pleased to partner with Representative Workman in offering legislation to recognize the property owner as the final authority on his or her own trees and prohibiting local governments from standing in the way of liberty and constitutional rights. It's time to take a stand against government overreach and for liberty by defending property rights. This bill will put local control back in the hands of property owners ," said Sen. Bob Hall.
"Local control is an effective tool for preserving individual liberties. Unfortunately, too many local governments have twisted the purpose of local control to strip more and more freedoms from their citizens," said Rep. Workman. "I am ready to get back to work in the upcoming special session to make sure Texans' freedoms are protected from government overreach."

Source: https://gov.texas.gov/news/post/governor-abbott-applauds-sen.-hall-rep.-workmans-intention-to-author-legisl
