Public Statements
Letter to the Honorable Robert McDonald, Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs - Cornyn Presses VA Secretary to Address Long Wait Times at Houston VA
Letter
By: John Cornyn Gregory Abbott Ted Cruz
Date: June 28, 2016
Location: Washington, DC

Dear Secretary McDonald:
I write today to express my deep concern over the new report from the VA Inspector General (IG) regarding Houston-area veterans' medical wait-times and continued data manipulation by VA employees, dated June 20, 2016. The IG substantiated that three Houston VA officials in positions of responsibility instructed their staff to erroneously record veterans' appointment cancellations. These officials included two previous VA scheduling supervisors and one current director of a VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic. "These issues have continued despite the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) having identified similar issues during a May and June 2014 system-wide review of access," the IG wrote in its report.
Regrettably, Houston is not the only place in which veterans are still experiencing these types of failures. On April 19, 2016, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) published a report on access to care for newly enrolled veterans at a half-dozen other VA medical centers. The GAO found that nearly one out of every six veterans was "unable to access primary care because VA medical center staff did not schedule appointments for these veterans in accordance with VHA policy." In testimony before the House VA Committee, the director of GAO's health care team pointed out that this report "found many of the same problems as we have previously reported. . . . To date, we have seen, at best, little progress by the VA in addressing the issues."
In fact, these wait-time fiascos and the underlying problems have been allowed to occur at the VA for more than 15 years. The GAO official also testified that, "since 2000 and particularly over the past five years, we have consistently reported on the VA's failure to ensure veterans timely access to health care." At the same hearing, the VA's Assistant IG for Audits and Evaluations (Designee), commented that his IG office had been raising concerns about medical wait-times for more than 10 years. He also said the IG continues to see the VA's own data as unreliable, which of course makes it harder to diagnose and solve the problem.


Source:
