Public Statements
Medium - I'm Fighting For You
Op-Ed
By: Roy Cooper III
Date: May 18, 2017
Location: Unknown

By Gov. Cooper
Hurricane Matthew swept over North Carolina seven months ago, bringing 1,000-year floods and an estimated $4.8 billion in damage to 50 counties - half of the state.
In the wake of the storm, North Carolinians came together to support those who were affected. North Carolina secured millions in federal funding and FEMA assistance to help families move back into their old homes or find permanent housing.
But we knew that was just a down payment, and those funds alone wouldn't be enough to make a full recovery. While this year's recovery is well underway with state and federal funding, we know from Hurricane Floyd in 1999 that rebuilding takes years, not days. Right now, North Carolinians are still hurting. Hurricane damage is keeping far too many people away from their homes, offices, schools, and places of worship.
Last month, after working closely with our bipartisan Congressional delegation to formulate the request, I asked the federal government to send North Carolina about $929 million in relief funding, a conservative estimate for what it would cost to help our state recover from this disaster. Last week, we got our answer. President Trump and Congressional leaders gave us just $6 million - less than 1% of what we need.
That means that critical housing, agriculture, and small business needs remain unmet in our disaster-affected counties. The hurricane left hundreds of families in desperate need of health services, housing repairs, and housing elevation to keep them safe from future flooding. We need to make infrastructure improvements in towns that were washed out. We need to send support to hundreds of small businesses that keep local economies strong.
I recently traveled to Washington to meet with our North Carolina Congressional delegation to strategize about where we go from here. I'm encouraged by the bipartisan cooperation among our Congressional representatives, who continue to press this issue with their colleagues in Washington. Whether it's an immediate supplemental spending bill or the upcoming budget process, we need the federal government to rise to the challenge and do its part to make North Carolina whole again.
Disasters affect every state, and North Carolinians have given our own tax dollars to help neighbors and those in other states in times of crisis. We need the Trump Administration and Congressional leaders to help us rebuild our vibrant state economy and healthy population.
Finally, to any North Carolinians who feel like they've been forgotten since the flood waters receded, please know that I am in your corner. I'm fighting for you. I refuse to leave you behind.

Source: https://medium.com/@NC_Governor/im-fighting-for-you-6774613804a3
