Public Statements
Governor Cooper Announces Trilliant Networks Moving Global Headquarters to North Carolina's Research Triangle
Press Release
By: Roy Cooper III
Date: April 18, 2017
Location: Cary, NC

Trilliant Networks will establish its global headquarters in the Research Triangle Area, creating 130 jobs over the next five years, Governor Roy Cooper announced today. The smart grid software and communications company will invest $1.8 million at its current offices in Cary to accommodate for this expansion of corporate operations.
"We're proud that this global company has chosen to expand its operations here in the heart of North Carolina's Research Triangle and call our state home," said Governor Cooper. "Wake County and Cary offer the prime location, ideal business environment and talented workforce needed for a high-tech headquarters and we're excited Trilliant recognizes that."
Trilliant offers the energy industry's only enterprise-wide Smart Communications Platform for connecting the internet of things (IoT) through a secure, standards-based, multi-technology, open-spectrum solution. Trilliant maximizes smart grid and smart city investments and makes operations future-ready.
"The Research Triangle is a globally recognized technology community of more than 350 clean tech companies, and offers some of the brightest and most innovative talent for a high-tech company like us," said Trilliant CEO Andy White. "By establishing our global headquarters in the Research Triangle, we are adding our footprint to other world leading technology companies as we continue leading innovation in Utility and IoT communications."
Trilliant will hire several positions to support world-wide operations of the company. Salaries will vary by position, with a total annual payroll impact of more than $13 million. Wake County's overall average wage is currently $53,783 per year.
"North Carolina is second to none when it comes to offering a technology company strong engineering and corporate talent, as well as an outstanding quality of life for its employees," said North Carolina Commerce Secretary Anthony M. Copeland. N.C. Commerce and the Economic Development Partnership of N.C. led the state's support for the company's expansion.
Trilliant's expansion in Wake County will be facilitated, in part, by a Job Development Investment Grant (JDIG) approved by the state's Economic Investment Committee earlier today. Under the terms of the JDIG, the company is eligible to receive up to $1,329,000 in total reimbursements. Payments will occur in annual installments over 12 years pending verification by N.C. Commerce and N.C. Revenue that the company has met incremental job creation and investment targets. JDIGs reimburse new and expanding companies a portion of the newly created tax-base with the goal of increasing the overall revenue benefit to the state of North Carolina.
By law, JDIG projects must result in a net revenue inflow to the state treasury over the life of the award. For projects in Wake and other Tier 3 counties, 25 percent of the eligible grant is directed to the state's Industrial Development Fund -- Utility Account to help finance economic infrastructure in rural counties. Trilliant's expansion could provide as much as $443,000 in new funds for the Utility Account. More information on county tier designations is available here.
"We're so proud of the high-tech companies we've been able to attract and nurture in Wake County," said N.C. Senator Jay Chaudhuri. "And Trilliant will be a great addition to that roster, especially as they grow their headquarters operations here."
"I congratulate Trilliant on choosing the best location in America for their global headquarters," said N.C. Representative Duane Hall. "We're confident this is the right move for them and they'll have no problem filling these new positions."
Partnering with N.C. Commerce and the EDPNC on this project were the North Carolina General Assembly, the North Carolina Community College System, Wake County Economic Development, Town of Cary, Wake County, Cary Chamber of Commerce, E4 Carolinas and the Research Triangle Cleantech Cluster.

Source: https://governor.nc.gov/news/governor-cooper-announces-trilliant-networks-moving-global-headquarters-north-carolina%E2%80%99s
