Public Statements
Gov. Cooper Announces $4.5M Federal Grant to Help Matthew Survivors
Press Release
By: Roy Cooper III
Date: Jan. 18, 2017
Location: Raleigh, NC

Governor Roy Cooper today announced that North Carolina has been awarded a $4.5 million federal grant to help Hurricane Matthew survivors with their long-term recovery needs.
The funds will be used to pair case managers with some of the hardest-hit survivors to help them navigate the long and often complicated recovery process.
"Families and communities recovering from Hurricane Matthew continue to struggle and they need our support," Governor Cooper said. "Case managers will help storm survivors navigate the sometime complex process to access safe housing and funds to repair damaged homes."
The Federal Emergency Management Agency awarded the $4,521,340 Disaster Case Management Grant to North Carolina Emergency Management to provide direct case management services for up to 24 months. The 100 percent federal grant requires no matching funds from the state. This marks the first time that the state has sought or received this type of award, which was created in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina to aid survivors of large disasters who have long term recovery needs.
NCEM Director Mike Sprayberry said the state currently is identifying experienced case managers who will work in conjunction with faith-based and volunteer organizations to assist in meeting survivors' unmet needs. Case managers are expected to be in place by early February.
More than 80,275 people already have registered with FEMA for state and federal assistance since Hurricane Matthew brought torrential rains to much of central and eastern North Carolina in early October. Not counting this grant, more than $88.4 million in federal disaster assistance has been provided to displaced homeowners and renters, with an additional $80.8 million provided to home and business applicants by the U.S. Small Business Administration.
The deadline for Hurricane Matthew survivors to register with FEMA for disaster assistance is 11:59 p.m. Monday, Jan. 23. Apply online at www.fema.gov/disaster/4285 or call 800-621-FEMA.

Source: https://governor.nc.gov/news/gov-cooper-announces-45m-federal-grant-help-matthew-survivors
