Public Statements
Fayetteville Observer - Attorney General Roy Cooper Tours Fayetteville Damage, Warns of Fraud
By: Roy Cooper III
Date: Oct. 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

By Amanda Dolasinski
The state attorney general is warning people to be on the lookout for fake charities before giving money to assist people who have been displaced by Hurricane Matthew.
Roy Cooper was in Fayetteville on Thursday to survey damage caused by last weekend's storm, as well as to address price gouging, fraud and fake charity scams.
"Please consider helping victims if you can, but make sure your donation goes where it will do the most good," Cooper said. "Research charities before you give, and report charity scams to my office."
Hurricane Matthew dumped nearly 15 inches of rain in some areas of Fayetteville over the weekend. The heavy rain caused at least 10 dams to fail, washed away roads, flooded homes and businesses and claimed two lives in Cumberland County.
Cooper's visit follows that of Gov. Pat McCrory, who was in Fayetteville on Monday to survey damage from flooding and later announced that 31 counties had been declared federal disaster areas. Cooper, a Democrat, is challenging McCrory in November.
Cooper encouraged people to donate to established charities they have researched. He urged people to be cautious of new charities, or funds set up online.
"Brand new charities often pop up after natural disasters," Cooper said. "Some may be legitimate, but others may be scams or just too poorly organized to be effective. It's best to give to charities with an established track record for using donations widely."
He said to ask questions about the charity and never make cash donations.
Cooper also advised people to be vigilant of fraud.
After natural disasters, he said a popular fraud scheme is for tree removal companies to prey on people. Cooper encouraged people to get multiple quotes and never pay in cash.
He also addressed price gouging, explaining more than 100 complaints of unfair prices have been filed across the state since Hurricane Matthew hit.
At least one business in Fayetteville was served with a subpoena for allegedly charging $29 for a case of 24 water bottles as people were recovering from the hurricane, according to Cooper. He declined to name that business until it is confirmed the subpoena has been served.
The state considers gouging when a business charges "a price that is unreasonably excessive under the circumstances." There is no set price or percentage increase that must be charged to be considered price gouging.
"We believe the price gouging law's very existence serves as a deterrent," he said. "We want to make sure people having a rough time don't have to suffer from price gouging."

Source: http://www.fayobserver.com/news/local/nc-attorney-general-warns-of-scams-fraud-after-hurricane-matthew/article_6471bf7a-1e9a-5e80-818b-b94de8ecfb6b.html
