Public Statements
Greensboro News & Record - Cooper: 'What We're Lacking Is a Leader at the Top'
News Article
By: Roy Cooper III
Date: Oct. 4, 2016
Location: Greensboro, NC

By Kate Elizabeth Queram
A state law restricting access to police body-camera footage needs to be changed to allow greater transparency, N.C. Attorney General Roy Cooper said Tuesday.
"There is an assumption in this new law that cameras and film are confidential and that only a court order can allow it to be public," Cooper said during an interview with the News & Record's editorial board. "I believe the presumption should be that the video is public."
The law, which took effect Oct. 1, reclassifies dashboard and body-camera footage as confidential personnel records. Only people pictured or heard in the footage -- or their relatives -- are allowed access to the video. Members of the public, as well as journalists, must obtain a court order to view it.
The legislation prevents police departments from releasing footage independently by directing requests through a state superior court judge. It also gives law enforcement agencies the right to refuse access to footage if it might damage an officer's reputation, endanger someone, or interfere with an "active or inactive internal or criminal investigation."
Some of those protections are necessary and should be upheld in any revisions to the law, said Cooper, a Democrat running for governor against Republican incumbent Pat McCrory.
"There are a number of exceptions that may have to exist in order to protect confidential informants," he said. "There are a long list of issues that have to be addressed that potentially could compromise an investigation, but I think the presumption in this legislation is flipped."
McCrory's campaign last week accused Cooper of changing his stance on the law by expressing support for the legislation in private before denouncing it in public.
"Roy Cooper will tell law enforcement one thing behind closed doors, but another thing in front of the media," Ricky Diaz, a McCrory campaign spokesman, said in a statement.
Cooper said Tuesday he supports the use of dashboard and body cameras in law enforcement, but would prefer broader access to the footage they record.
"The next governor is going to have to spend a lot of time to work to achieve mutual respect between law enforcement and communities, particularly communities of color," he said. "It's going to require body cams and dash cams and how you handle those cameras is going to be an important part of establishing mutual respect.
"I believe the more transparency you have, the better opportunity you have to achieve mutual respect."
Cooper holds a 4.4 percentage-point lead over McCrory in the latest Elon University poll, a surge attributed in part to the governor's refusal to convene a special session of the General Assembly to repeal or revise House Bill 2, the so-called bathroom bill that requires transgender residents to use the bathroom corresponding to their biological sex.
The NCAA and ACC recently relocated championship games from the state in protest over the legislation, which also limits discrimination protection for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender residents.
Cooper said he remained confident that the Republican-led General Assembly could repeal the legislation next year.
"I'm not going to give up on the idea that this legislature can and will repeal HB 2," he said. "What we're lacking is a leader at the top."

Source: http://www.greensboro.com/news/cooper-what-we-re-lacking-is-a-leader-at-the/article_1dd943d5-b044-51eb-9ae9-9ca31c95c632.html
