Public Statements
Gaston Gazette - Attorney General Subpoenas Gaston Store Over $4.19 Gas Price
News Article
By: Roy Cooper III
Date: Sept. 23, 2016
Location: Unknown

By Kevin Ellis
A Gaston County gas station that was reportedly charging more than $4 for a gallon of gas this week now faces a subpoena from the Attorney General's Office over price gouging complaints.
The price hike from the Gaston County gas station reportedly came earlier this week when the normal flow of gasoline into the southeast was disrupted by a leaking pipeline in the state of Alabama. Gasoline was available at some stations, but many pumps went dry for several days before a repair ended the temporary gasoline crisis. The same was true for stations across North and South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Tennessee.
"Gouging consumers during a gas shortage isn't just unfair -- it's illegal," Attorney General Roy Cooper said in a statement released Friday. "My office takes reports of possible price gouging seriously and we're moving forward with our investigation."
After the pipeline leak in Alabama made the delivery of gasoline spotty in the southeast last week, the state's Consumer Protection Division received about 1,450 complaints from customers all cross North Carolina. At least 16 complaints from Gaston County, six from Cleveland County and three from Lincoln County.
Cooper has issued subpoenas to nine gas stations, including the one in Gaston.
The Attorney General's Office would not name the station Friday because it was unclear whether the subpoena had been served yet, according to Cooper's office.
Price gouging -- or charging too much in times of crisis -- is against North Carolina law when a disaster, an emergency or an abnormal market disruption for critical goods and services is declared or proclaimed by the governor. The law applies to all levels of the supply chain from the manufacturer to the distributor to the retailer.
North Carolina law defines price gouging as charging "a price that is unreasonably excessive under the circumstances." There is no set price or percentage increase defined in the law so the law can apply to different products and services in times of crisis.
Price gougers can face fines of up to $5,000 for each violation under North Carolina law. All fines go to support the public schools.
In 2008, North Carolina faced a similar gas crisis when Gulf Coast refineries shut down. With the price gouging law in effect, Attorney General Cooper took action and won $71,000 in consumer refunds, energy assistance and fines from 14 gas stations.
Consumers who believe they've seen potential gas price gouging can file a complaint with the state by calling 1-877-5-NO-SCAM toll-free within North Carolina or online at ncdoj.gov.

Source: http://www.gastongazette.com/news/20160923/attorney-general-subpoenas-gaston-store-over-419-gas-price
