Public Statements
Citizen-Times - Roy Cooper: Put Schools Ahead Of Corporate Tax Cuts
News Article
By: Roy Cooper III
Date: April 18, 2016
Location: Asheville, NC

By Mark Barrett
North Carolina should prioritize public education over corporate tax cuts and reconsider the way it recruits industry, Democratic gubernatorial nominee Roy Cooper said at an appearance here Monday.
Significant declines in North Carolina's rank among the states for teacher pay and spending per pupil are two important signs that state government has not done enough to support schools, Cooper told about 100 people at a Council of Independent Business Owners lunch at UNC Asheville.
"I've never seen the morale this low among our teachers, principals, educators who serve the public across our state," said Cooper, who is state attorney general.
He recalled hearing from a parent who is coordinating volunteers to help the teacher of a second-grade class because the teaching assistant for the class was removed.
He said teachers tell him, "It's not just the pay, it's the lack of basic respect. ... They're not talking about the respect from the communities and the families, they're talking about the lack of respect from the state government leaders."
The state General Assembly and Gov. Pat McCrory, Cooper's foe in the November election, have cut personal and corporate income tax rates and shifted some of the burden to the sales tax and fees. A change in the way corporations figure their income that takes effect Jan. 1 will also lessen the amount of tax companies owe.
Cooper said he is particularly concerned about cuts to the corporate income tax rate, which has dropped in steps, that will see the rate fall from 6.9 percent in 2013 to 3 percent in 2017.
'Right now you have corporate tax giveaways at the expense of education and the middle class," he said after his remarks to CIBO.
"If if you make it a priority, you can fund public education," Cooper said. "The business people I talk to say that having a well trained workforce is more important than the corporate tax issue."
"I think we need to stop it," he said of the corporate tax cuts written into law that have yet to take effect.
Cooper criticized changes to the way the state organizes economic development efforts that McCrory pushed. They included eliminating state funding for regional economic development partnerships like AdvantageWest, one of seven such entities around the state that worked with state and local officials on industrial recruitment and other projects to improve regional economies.
The changes created a statewide public-private entity to be involved in state economic development activities instead.
AdvantageWest, which was responsible for 23 Western North Carolina counties, shut down. Other partnerships either closed or significantly reduced their activities.
Cooper said abandoning the regional approach was a mistake.
"There was a track record of success with AdvantageWest and I think state government's being short sighted," he said.
The change is especially problematic for smaller counties that were especially reliant on the regional partnership's services, he said.
"Rural counties have a hard enough time getting by and most of them cannot afford" a significant local effort to recruit industry, Cooper said.
He said under the new statewide structure, local economic development officials tell him, "They're having a hard time finding someone to make decisions and to help them. ... Unfortunately, South Carolina and other states are eating our lunch."
Cooper has already called for repealing HB2 and repeated that stance Monday.
"The passage of House Bill 2 has been very negative with our economy thus far," he told the CIBO group. "When you write discrimination into the law, when you usurp the power and ability of local government and when you send a signal that North Carolina is a place where discrimination can occur, it's going to hurt your economy."
"It's only going to get worse unless the governor and the state legislative leadership steps up and gets rid of this law," he said. "It's something that we have to do, not only because it's the right thing to do, but we also need to do it in order to be able to move our economy forward. Competition's already rough. Why do we have to have this extra problem that causes businesses to mark us off the list?"
Ricky Diaz, a spokesman for McCrory's campaign, said the governor's "approach to cutting taxes is working so well that even Virginia's Democrat governor is following North Carolina's lead in order to stay competitive for jobs. Additionally, Governor McCrory has increased education funding each year he's been in office and just announced a plan to raise average teacher pay to $50,000 plus benefits."

Source: http://www.citizen-times.com/story/news/local/2016/04/18/roy-cooper-put-schools-ahead-corporate-tax-cuts/83184502/
