Public Statements
Star News Online - McCrory, Cooper Talk Teacher Pay, HB2 at Educator Event
News Article
By: Roy Cooper III
Date: April 15, 2016
Location: Wilmington, NC

By Tim Buckland
In a tale of two receptions, speeches by Gov. Pat McCrory and his opponent in this year's gubernatorial election, N.C. Attorney General Roy Cooper, met with decidedly different reactions during the N.C. Association of School Administrators conference Friday morning.
McCrory, in the midst of a backlash over the adoption of the controversial House Bill 2 law that has been criticized as discriminatory against gay, lesbian and transgender people, spoke after Cooper and tried to convince the crowd that educator pay and school success had improved in his tenure.
The state's teacher pay ranking varies depending on the entity compiling the metric. In September 2015, Forbes and wallethub.com each ranked North Carolina as the second-worst state to be a teacher. According to the National Education Association, the state ranked 43rd in average teacher pay in 2014-15, but saw the largest drop in teacher pay when adjusted for inflation, at 17.4 percent, from the 2003-04 school year to the 2013-14 school year.
McCrory faced a tough crowd for most of his speech, including when he outlined his plan -- announced earlier this month -- for a 5-percent average teacher pay increase and bonuses as high as $5,000 for longtime teachers.
"That's something that should be applauded," the governor told the audience of school superintendents and principals.
He didn't get a single clap.
For his part, Cooper called the governor's plan a pandering attempt to win support from educators.
"We need a strategic plan to get our educator and teacher salaries above the national average. And that doesn't mean just three years of a little bit of progress and the promise of 5 percent during an election year," he said to applause.
McCrory, though, said the state's teacher pay ranking in the United States went from 19th to 46th "before I took office." He noted that budgets passed in 2013-14 and 2014-15 contained pay raises for teachers, primarily those at the bottom of the scale whose starting pay went from about $30,800 to $35,000, "and those were not done in election years."
McCrory touched on HB2 at the end of his speech. The law has been widely referred to as the "bathroom bill" for requiring people to use public restrooms that correspond to the sex on their birth certificate. But the legislation is far more sweeping, banning municipalities from passing local non-discrimination ordinances or minimum wages and prohibiting workers from filing employment discrimination lawsuits in state court, pushing those on to federal courts.
HB2 has drawn furious backlash from businesses. In response to the law, Deutsche Bank halted plans Tuesday to add 250 jobs in Cary, PayPal withdrew a $3.6 million North Carolina expansion that would have created 400 jobs, and companies including Bank of America, Apple, Lionsgate, Google and American Airlines have blasted the legislation.
McCrory earlier this week issued an executive order that added sexual orientation and gender identity as protected classes for state employees and asked the legislature to restore state-level discrimination lawsuits. He said the law has been distorted and provides for "common sense" protections for women and girls from men who would be forced to use locker rooms and changing facilities with men under Charlotte's ordinance.
McCrory left the conference without taking media questions and organizers of the event said his security detail ordered that nobody approach the governor to take photos.
Josh Ellis, the governor's communications director, said he had "no idea why" organizers claimed security ordered reporters away and said "no one from our office would have done that."
Cooper, though, seized on the HB2 controversy in his remarks and in media interviews he gave as McCrory's speech began, saying he believes federal funding may be at risk because of Title IX requirements against discrimination. He said that while the law has also seen businesses decide against bringing new jobs to the area -- PayPal and Deutsche Bank recently cancelled plans -- he said it isn't too late to reverse course.
"I think there is still time to get rid of this law and a number of jobs will come back," he said. "I think it's important for people ... to know that this is not who North Carolina is. It's who our politicians are, but it's not who the people of North Carolina are."

Source: http://www.starnewsonline.com/article/20160415/NEWS/160419783/1177
