Public Statements
Issue Position: Jobs and Economy
Issue Position
By: Roy Cooper III
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

I am running for Governor because it is time that North Carolina works for everyone, not just the select few. I am concerned that as unemployment begins to drop, wages are not beginning to rise. I believe we have made budget and tax decisions that have been driven more by ideology than by sound thinking on how to grow the economy and create more opportunity. I know that we can do better. We need a new set of priorities that focuses on rising incomes, putting more money in the pockets of working families, and helping small businesses start up and grow.
Small businesses are a vital component of our economy. While some of the biggest companies, including out-of-state corporations, have received tremendous giveaways, many of our small businesses and working families have seen tax increases, sometimes disguised as fees. Some believe that we should zero out the corporate tax and income tax in favor of much higher sales taxes, gas taxes, and a host of fee hikes. I think that would harm our economy and put our state at a disadvantage. Moreover, I am concerned about an economic development plan that focuses mostly on lower corporate taxes instead of having a real, holistic plan to streamline regulations, invest in our workforce, create a fair but low tax environment, and recruit, retain, and start up businesses in the biggest growth sectors of our economy.
When I speak with CEOs that run businesses in this state or who are thinking about moving here, the first question they ask me is "do you have the people to do the jobs I create?" Today, North Carolina has 59 community colleges, 23 workforce development boards, and 78 career centers across the state. We have a significant infrastructure to help us develop those employees. What I believe we are lacking is leadership. A unified, coordinated, and streamlined workforce development system can be an incredible advantage for our state and it will be an important focus during my time as Governor.
I also believe that we can do a better job of supporting the small and medium-sized businesses we already have in North Carolina. We can look to innovative ways to leverage small amounts of public money for much larger amounts of private capital. We can and should put regulations under consumer and efficiency reviews that make it less burdensome for small businesses to comply with the law while also protecting people and honest businesses from bad actors. For our start-up companies, building on the success we have had using our university system is critical. Connecting small business incubators, our best and brightest minds, and the research capabilities of our higher education institutions has proven to be an economic winner for this state and we must create a business environment that encourages this. State government needs to learn when to help and when to stay out of the way.

Source:
