Public Statements
Issue Position: Environment
Issue Position
By: Roy Cooper III
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

A strong economy and a healthy environment go hand-in-hand. I am glad North Carolina has become a leader in renewable energy technology and that energy companies are shifting toward more sustainable power supplies than coal.
As Attorney General, I have disagreed with the state environmental regulators who were focused on scoring political points rather than protecting our water, air and other natural resources. North Carolina solutions, with input from citizens, are the best ways to create jobs and pursue sound environmental policy that preserves natural resources and public health.
As a legislator and as Attorney General, I have supported successful efforts like North Carolina's Clean Smokestacks Act, which I used to limit TVA's pollution in our mountains, and the Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard. Pursuing alternative energy production has benefited our environment and our economy. It has been a growth industry in North Carolina, creating multiple wins for our state.
Meanwhile, I have opposed the efforts of utilities to raise rates on customers to benefit shareholders unnecessarily, and continue to oppose the efforts of utilities to pass on to ratepayers the costs of expenditures like coal ash cleanup. Unfortunately, environmental damage has left some residents of our state unsure about the quality of their drinking water, and some are still drinking bottled water due to questionable water test results. What happened to the Dan River during the Governor's watch should not happen again to any of the state's rivers and streams. The coal ash cleanup should move forward quickly and effectively in line with what the science and public health officials recommend to ensure the integrity of our water supply and waterways.
As Attorney General, I have awarded over $25 million in grants to groups across North Carolina including land trusts, soil and water conservation districts, and other environmental and conservation groups with a focus on acquiring, restoring and protecting lands to protect the state's waterways and water quality. With the Albermarle-Pamlico Natural Estuary comprising one of the nation's largest estuaries, these funds have played a critical role in enhancing an environment with incredible natural diversity that is also the source for many North Carolinians' livelihoods as well as their recreation.

Source: http://www.roycooper.com/issues/
