Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Appoints David Jensen and Anthony Martinez to State Board of Education
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Aug. 14, 2015
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval is pleased to announce the appointments of Superintendent David Jensen and student representative Anthony Martinez to the State Board of Education. Jensen will replace Lisa Noonan who was originally nominated by the Nevada Association of School Superintendents for a term ending January 1, 2016. Martinez, a high school senior, will serve as the student representative for a term ending May 31, 2016.
"With an exceptional record of serving in Nevada's public education system, David has demonstrated a commitment to student achievement and success," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "I would like to thank David for accepting this new role and look forward to working with him to ensure students have the support and resources necessary to succeed in the classroom."
David Jensen currently serves as the Superintendent of Schools for Humboldt County School District. Prior to his current position as Superintendent, Dr. Jensen served as Assistant Superintendent, Associate Superintendent for Business and Support Services, Director of Federal Programs and as a School Psychologist. Dr. Jensen earned his bachelor of science in psychology, Master of Science in educational psychology and specialist degrees from Brigham Young University. He then completed his administrative certification requirements culminating with an Educational Doctorate from the University of Nevada, Reno.
"It is my pleasure to work with the dedicated individuals currently serving on the State Board of Education. As this board works to ensure that the vision of Governor Sandoval and the State Legislature is implemented with integrity and fidelity, I am excited to be a part of this turning point within the educational arena in Nevada," said David Jensen. "I look forward to providing a perspective that represents both the Superintendents Association, as well as that of our rural communities as we work collaboratively to build a better tomorrow."
"Students are the ultimate beneficiaries of our education system and it is critical that they have a voice as we implement education reforms that will change Nevada's delivery of education," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "I am proud to appoint Anthony to this important position and am confident he will be a tremendous advocate for Nevada's students."

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2015/Governor-Sandoval-Appoints-David-Jensen-and-Anthony-Martinez-to-State-Board-of-Education/
