Public Statements
Sandoval LEads Historic Trade Mission to Poland, Signs Mou to Establish FIrst Overseas Office for a Country in Nevada
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Aug. 8, 2015
Location: Warsaw, PL

Governor Brian Sandoval and the Nevada Delegation traveled to Poland to continue the European trade mission. The Nevada Delegation is a representation of Nevada's business, education, and cultural communities.
As a result of strategic engagement with the Republic of Poland, Governor Sandoval cemented his visit to the country by joining with government officials from Poland to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on behalf of the State of Nevada to enhance access to the Nevada and U.S. markets for Polish companies and for Nevada-based businesses to gain access to the Polish and European markets.
"In signing this MOU, Nevada is formally recognizing the important partnership that we have developed with the Republic of Poland, and as such, Poland has selected Nevada as a base for expansion efforts by its businesses into the United States," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "With a pledge to open offices at the University of Nevada Reno's Innovation Center, Poland's strong economic growth, industrious population, and investment in innovation and market expansion provide Nevada with a unique opportunity. Today's signing with the Province of Lubelski is a first step in formalizing our rapidly expanding collaboration with Poland, and I look forward to working with both the provincial government and the Ministry of Economy to further develop the Nevada-Poland partnership."
Since 2013, the State, through the Governor's Office of Economic Development, has developed a productive dialogue with government officials and business representatives from the Republic of Poland. The meaningful relationship that has been developed during this time has centered on assisting Polish companies seeking to access the North American market through Nevada. Additionally, as a result of GOED's dialogue with representatives from Poland, the Polish American Chamber of Commerce will be moving its annual conference from Chicago to Nevada.
During his historic trip, Governor Sandoval met with Ambassador Ryszard Schnepf, Ambassador of Poland to the United States, to discuss the relationship between Poland and the State of Nevada. The Governor also met with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Economy, Janusz Piechocinski, and KGHM mining company to discuss the possibility of Foreign Direct Investment in Nevada.
Governor Sandoval also joined with members of the Nevada Jewish Federation in a somber visit to Auschwitz in Krakow to remember the atrocities of the Holocaust by praying for those who lost their lives and paying tribute to those who survived.
"As Nevadans, we will never forget," said Governor Brian Sandoval during his visit to Auschwitz.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2015/Sandoval-Leads-Historic-Trade-Mission-to-Poland,-Signs-MOU-to-establish-first-overseas-office-for-a-country-in-Nevada/
