Public Statements
Nevada Receives $11.2 Million in Federal Homeland Security Funding
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: July 30, 2015
Location: Carson City, NV

The State of Nevada Department of Public Safety -- Division of Emergency Management/Homeland Security (NDEM) received grant guidance from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The State of Nevada has been awarded $11.2 million in federal homeland security and dollars for federal fiscal year (FFY) 2015.
"The safety and welfare of Nevadans and the millions of tourists who visit our state annually will continue to be a top priority for my Administration. These funds help ensure we have the resources necessary to protect and prepare our communities," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "I would like to thank the Department of Homeland Security for making these important funds available."
The FFY 2015 grant guidance will continue to focus on the nation's highest-risk areas, including urban areas that face the most significant threats. For FFY 2015, the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) will enhance regional preparedness and capabilities by funding state and local security efforts in 26 high-threat, high-density urban areas.
DHS distributes funds to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and through the UASI the money is allocated to cities across the nation according to a risk-based ranking. Las Vegas ranked 24 in 2015, receiving $3 million to be designated to the Las Vegas area, a 200 percent increase over 2014.
The State of Nevada's funding under the State Homeland Security Program (SHSP), which consists of grant funds dedicated for use throughout the 17 counties in the state totals $3,734,500 for 2015, a one percent increase over 2014's allocation. The SHSP provides financial support for the implementation of the National Preparedness System to address planning, organization, equipment, training, and exercise needs to prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events.
The Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG) Program allocates funds to enable the state to develop a system of emergency preparedness to protect life and property from hazards. EMPG funds support the building, sustainment, and delivery of core capabilities essential to achieving the goal of a secure and resilient state.
The DHS grant program allocates grant funding that enhances the ability of states, as well as local, tribal and territorial jurisdictions and other regional authorities in the preparation, prevention, and response to terrorist attacks and other disasters. Localities can use grants for planning, equipment, training and exercise needs. These funds are used to support the following top-five priorities determined for the state by the Nevada Commission on Homeland Security:
1. Cyber Security (Mission area: Protection)
2. Intelligence and Information Sharing (Mission area: Prevention)
3. Public Information and Warning (Mission area: All)
4. Operational Coordination (Mission area: All)
5. Mass Care Services (Mission area: Response)

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2015/Nevada-Receives-$11_2-Million-in-Federal-Homeland-Security-Funding/
