Public Statements
Governor Focuses on Technology Commercialization and Workforce Development in Germany
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: July 28, 2015
Location: Dresden, Germany

Governor Brian Sandoval and the Nevada Delegation traveled to Germany to strengthen the State's bilateral trade partnership with Germany by drawing attention to Nevada's emerging focus in technology commercialization and advanced manufacturing workforce development. While in Germany, Governor Sandoval participated in a Workforce Development Roundtable which concluded with the signing of a Letter of Intent between the State of Nevada and the State of Saxony, City of Leipzig, to create an exchange program for highly-skilled interns in advanced manufacturing.
"Tesla's decision to locate its Gigafactory in northern Nevada means that our state will be on the cutting-edge of the advanced manufacturing industry for decades to come, and that certainly places a great amount of importance on developing a large base of skilled employees," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "The State of Saxony has made a name for itself by developing a highly-skilled labor pool for advanced manufacturing and this exchange program will help Nevada as we further develop our own career pathway for this industry both for companies in our state as well as Nevada's education and training providers."
During his time in Germany, Governor Sandoval spent time in Berlin, Leipzig, and Dresden. While in Berlin, the Governor met with the Coordinator of Transatlantic Cooperation at the Federal Foreign Office, the Rt. Hon Juergen Hard, MP and with members of the Association of German Chambers of Commerce and Industry to discuss bilateral trade with Nevada and participated in a showcase of autonomous vehicle technology.
In Leipzig, Governor Sandoval toured the automotive facilities of BMW and Porsche as well as BZT Borsdorf, a collaborative workforce training center, and WWB Machine Tools, a small advanced manufacturing company. These tours provided the delegation with the opportunity to learn more about Germany's vocational training system and gain a better understanding of how workforce integration is succeeding at varying levels of industry, including how manufacturers shape curriculum development.
The Governor also met with the Deputy Mayor of Liepzig, to discuss mutual trade objectives for both Nevada and Germany. The Deputy Mayor hosted a reception for Governor Sandoval and the Nevada Delegation.
GOED Director Steve Hill signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Deputy Mayor of Leipzig, Uwe Alberecht, to further enhance Nevada's efforts to further develop an advanced manufacturing workforce in the State.
Saxony's state capital, Dresden, concluded the Governor's visit to Germany and is where he met with the Secretary of Economy and Speaker of the Parliament, a visit that concluded with the signing of the Letter of Intent.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2015/Governor-Focuses-on-Technology-Commercialization-and-Workforce-Development-in-Germany/
