Public Statements
Governor Kicks Off Trade Mission to Europe
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: July 20, 2015
Location: Dublin, Ireland

Governor Brian Sandoval and the Governor's Office of Economic Development (GOED) today began the first part of the two-week European trade mission in the country of Ireland to form a partnership with IBM to bring attention to Nevada's targeted focus on water technology and commercialization. While in country, Governor Sandoval also led discussions about Irish business access to the U.S. market through Nevada.
Governor Sandoval and GOED Director Steve Hill were joined by representatives from the Desert Research Institute (DRI), the Southern Nevada Water Authority (SNWA), and the Nevada Center of Excellence (NvCOE) in a meeting with IBM to form a partnership with the goal of scaling and commercializing water technology. IBM and the NvCOE developed a framework for enhanced collaboration focused on energy and water quality management system technology."
"As a desert state, our focus on water security has driven research institutions and agencies such as DRI and SNWA to develop industry-leading knowledge on the study of water and has led to the development of several technologies that increase our access to water ," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "This new partnership with Ireland IBM will not only strengthen the work our state is doing regarding water, but also will help turn this emerging industry into economic opportunity for the state through technology commercialization."
"Water and the commercialization of water technologies has become an integral part of GOED's technology commercialization initiative," said Steve Hill, Director of GOED. "With dedicated funding from the Knowledge Fund for the NvCOE, GOED is leveraging the work of DRI and SNWA to expand Nevada's reach across the globe in the field of water."
While in Ireland, Governor Sandoval hosted a roundtable with Enterprise Ireland, the organization primarily responsible for the development and growth of Irish enterprises in world markets, to discuss the possibility of Irish companies accessing parts of the U.S. market through Nevada.
About the trade mission:
As one of the largest Governor-led trade missions in the state's history, the focus will be to strengthen bilateral trade partnerships between the State of Nevada and the countries of Ireland, Germany, Poland, England, and Italy. With a goal to connect Nevada education and research institutions as well as Nevada businesses with opportunities overseas, the trade mission will specifically focus on advanced manufacturing, water technology, mining, information technology, and tourism and hospitality. Trade mission attendees include the Governor's Office of Economic Development and representatives from the Nevada Commission on Tourism, the Nevada Department of Education, the Nevada System of Higher Education and its institutions, the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, the Southern Nevada Water Authority, the Nevada Center of Excellence, the Economic Development Authority of Western Nevada, the Northern Nevada Development Authority, and the Nevada Jewish Federation. The Nevada Business Delegation includes Xtreme Green, Micromanipulator, Rust Bullet, and Scaale Capital.
About the Governor's Office of Economic Development:
Created during the 2011 session of the Nevada Legislature, the Governor's Office of Economic Development (GOED) is the result of a collaborative effort between the Nevada Legislature and Governor Brian Sandoval to restructure economic development in the state. GOED's role is to promote a robust, diversified and prosperous economy in Nevada, to stimulate business expansion and retention, encourage entrepreneurial enterprise, attract new businesses and facilitate community development. More information on the Governor's Office of Economic Development can be viewed at www.diversifynevada.com.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2015/Governor-Kicks-Off-Trade-Mission-to-Europe/
