Public Statements
Sandoval Appoints Caleb Cage Homeland Security Advisor
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: July 10, 2015
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval announced today that he has appointed Caleb Cage as the Governor's Homeland Security Advisor. Cage will manage the Office of Homeland Security which serves as the State's single point of contact with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security relative to sharing of sensitive information and intelligence. Cage has also been appointed by Department of Public Safety Director Jim Wright to serve as the Chief of the Division of Emergency Management. Cage will serve as the primary point of contact to federal, state, and local jurisdictions relative to intelligence sharing and critical infrastructure protection measures and programs, cyber security, and citizen preparedness initiatives.
As the Governor's Homeland Security Advisor, Cage will occupy a seat on the Homeland Security Commission. Governor Sandoval became Commission Chairman in April 2011. Prior to these appointments, Cage served in the Office of the Governor as the Director of Military and Veterans Policy.
"Caleb has been an outstanding member of my staff as both a former member of my cabinet and a policy advisor in my personal office. He was a critical component to the success of our comprehensive and sweeping veteran reforms this legislative session and I am grateful for his hard work and tireless commitment to serve our men and women of the military and veterans community," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "Caleb will be an excellent addition to the Homeland Security Commission and I am confident he will serve as a sharp and knowledgeable advisor. I look forward to continuing to work with him in this new and expanded role."
Cage graduated from the United States Military Academy, West Point. Upon graduation in 2002, he was commissioned as a Field Artillery officer and was assigned to the 1st Infantry Division in Bamberg, Germany for a three-year tour. For his service in Operation Iraqi Freedom II, he earned the Bronze Star Medal, and the Combat Action Badge.
Cage's military career spanned five years. He served in various positions during this time, including Fire Direction Officer, Executive Officer, and Battery Commander. He served a second yearlong tour in Iraq in 2006 as a Corps Information Operations battle captain in Baghdad.
Upon separating from the Army he began his civilian career as a Senior Policy Adviser to the Nevada Lieutenant Governor. In 2010, Cage was appointed to serve as Executive Director of the Nevada Office of Veterans Services (NOVS), a cabinet-level agency. Because of the success of his work in these areas, Cage was asked to move into the position of Director of Military and Veterans Policy, a newly-created position in the Office of Governor Brian Sandoval in August of 2013.
Cage lives in Pleasant Valley with his wife and two children, Charlotte and Arlo.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2015/Sandoval-Appoints-Caleb-Cage-Homeland-Security-Advisor/
