Public Statements
Sandoval Announces Framework Compromise Revenue
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: May 14, 2015
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval issued the following statement today as he continues to work with Legislative Leadership to fully fund the Executive Budget with a targeted investment in modernizing our education system and enhancing our delivery of education.
"In the spirit of bipartisan compromise, I have put forward a revenue plan that incorporates the best thinking of our elected leaders and structurally changes our ability to meet the growing demands of our diverse state," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "Since my State of the State Address, I promised to keep an open mind about building a revenue plan that is broad-based and fair. I believe this is a direct result of that commitment and I look forward to working with the Legislature to adopt this plan so that together we can move forward with a tax structure that will meet the demands of our 21st century New Nevada economy."
"I have reviewed Governor Sandoval's revised revenue plan and I want to complement him on working tirelessly with members of the Legislature and recognizing efforts undertaken in our house. It is not enough to simply increase education funding exclusively, rather the Governor's targeted spending plan will sustain programs that are working and directly invest in our classrooms while increasing accountability," said Assembly Majority Leader Paul Anderson. "I have begun discussing it with our caucus members and I look forward to scheduling a full hearing in the next several days."
"I am encouraged at the prospects of a bi-partisan compromise when it comes to a revenue plan for Nevada," said Assembly Democratic Leader Marilyn Kirkpatrick. "Before the first day of session, and every day since, I have said that myself and my caucus, would work toward a broad-based and equitable revenue plan that did not place the burden on the backs of middle-class families and invested in the priorities of all Nevadans. I look forward to diving into the policy details of the forthcoming revenue plan to ensure that's the case and hope that we can find common ground in the remaining days of session to support it."
"Responding to the needs of our 21st century economy will require that we address the growing vulnerabilities brought forth by an inadequate revenue structure," said Senate Majority Leader Michael Roberson. "I commend the Governor for his leadership in facilitating a dialogue so that ideas could be exchanged, consensus could be reached, and the best possible solutions proposed. This new proposal creates the necessary path toward completing the business of the state on time."
"I appreciate the Governor's willingness to take into consideration all ideas for crafting a comprehensive revenue package for Nevada," said Senate Minority Leader Aaron Ford. "As this bill makes its way to the Senate, my colleagues and I look forward to a thorough and fair hearing to ensure that we put in place a revenue structure that will fund education, protect small businesses, and allow Nevada to grow."

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2015/Sandoval-Announces-Framework-Compromise-Revenue-Plan/
