Public Statements
Multi-State Poker Play Begins
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: March 25, 2015
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval and Delaware Governor Jack Markell announced today the start of the Multi-State Poker Network (MSPN), which allows poker players from both states to begin competing against one another at the same virtual tables.
Delaware and Nevada poker players can now share game tables and tournaments any time of day, increasing the number of available online competitors. This partnership enhances the range of poker games and tournaments that Delaware and Nevada can offer, and better positions both states in the iGaming market.
"Nevada and Delaware are at the vanguard of internet gaming, leading by example to provide a legal, tightly regulated online poker market that protects consumers in both our states. The gaming industry is evolving, and Nevada is evolving with it," said Governor Brian Sandoval.
"Today is the start of an exciting time for iGaming and for Delaware," said Governor Markell. "The MSPN is the first multi-jurisdiction poker network of its kind in the world. We now offer an online poker option that is more competitive and more enjoyable for its users, thanks to this collaborative effort. I applaud Governor Sandoval for his leadership and commitment to this effort and thank our Department of Finance for working with their counterparts in Nevada to implement this initiative."
"The MSPN follows Nevada's and then Delaware's entry in 2013 as the first two states to launch internet gaming," said Secretary of Finance Tom Cook. "Along with creating an enhanced player experience, the MSPN also brings added security to the system, including upgraded geo-location features."
Starting today, Nevadans will be able to play Delawareans at the same virtual table with all the consumer protections that come with a regulated market. Until today, consumers could only play across state lines in unregulated games operated by illegal, offshore sites that have no standards for protection of personal or financial information, nor recourse against bad actors.

Source:
