Public Statements
Governor Brian Sandoval Names Robert Davidson to Nevada Board of Regents
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: March 17, 2015
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today announced he has appointed Robert Davidson to the Nevada Board of Regents. Davidson will fill the seat vacated by Nevada Controller Ron Knecht.
"Bob Davidson has supported Nevada's education system for many years through his philanthropic efforts and as a founder of The Davidson Academy of Nevada. He has focused on helping Nevada's gifted and talented students reach their full potential by providing a unique approach to our public school system," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "Bob will bring a fresh perspective by pairing his extensive business expertise and deep understanding of Nevada's students to the Board of Regents. He will be a tremendous asset and I thank him for accepting this responsibility," concluded Sandoval"
"I am honored to receive this appointment from Governor Sandoval. I would like to thank him for this incredible opportunity and look forward to working with the other regents," said Bob Davidson.
Bob Davidson is a philanthropist, successful businessman, and lawyer. In 2005, Bob and his wife Jan worked to pass Nevada state legislation to open a new kind of public school for profoundly gifted middle and high school students on the University of Nevada, Reno campus, named The Davidson Academy of Nevada. Since 2005, Davidson Academy has prepared countless Nevada students for success beyond the classroom, and has set a new standard for educational excellence in Nevada.
Bob earned his juris doctorate degree from George Washington University, a master of business administration degree from the University of California-Los Angeles (UCLA) and a bachelor of science degree in chemical engineering from Purdue University. He also served as a director for both Pepperdine University and George Washington University.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2015/Governor-Brian-Sandoval-Names-Robert-Davidson-to-Nevada-Board-of-Regents/
