Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Announces New Leadership at the Department of Health and Human Services
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Feb. 20, 2015
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval announced today that Richard Whitley has been appointed Interim Director of the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). Whitley currently serves within DHHS as the Administrator of the Division of Public and Behavioral Health Administration. Director Romaine Gilliland will return to retirement after an accomplished career in public service having worked in the Department of Employment, Training and Rehabilitation and Administrator of the Division of Welfare and Supportive Services.
"Richard has served as a key member of Nevada's Health and Human Services team, has demonstrated extensive knowledge and focused leadership, and will bring these skills into his new position. The Department of Health and Human Services is our largest state agency and houses many of the essential programs necessary to help promote a healthy citizenry. It is critical that we ensure strength and continuity in a system that impacts so many Nevada families across our state. I am pleased that Richard has accepted this expanded role and confident in his ability to lead the department through the legislative session," said Governor Brian Sandoval.
Whitley began state service as the senior psychologist for the Nevada Women's Correctional Facility in 1986. Prior to his current position, he has served as the Administrator of the Nevada State Health Division, and Division of Mental Health and Development Services. A graduate of Willamette University, he holds a Master's degree in counseling psychology from Western Oregon University.
"I would also like to thank Romaine Gilliland for his commitment to public service. Romaine selflessly left retirement and temporarily took the helm of DHHS last June during a time of transition, cultivating the department's current leadership team, including Richard," concluded Sandoval.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2015/Governor-Sandoval-Announces-New-Leadership-at-the-Department-of-Health-and-Human-Services/
