Public Statements
Governor Brian Sandoval Appoints Jim Wells Interim Director of Administration
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Feb. 9, 2015
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today announced he has appointed Jim Wells as Interim Director of Administration effective March 2, 2015. Jim Wells is currently the Executive Director of the State of Nevada Public Employees' Benefits Program.
"Jim Wells has served Nevada as a loyal public servant for more than twenty years and I am proud to welcome him as a member of my Cabinet. He is proficient in our budgeting process and will bring a wealth of knowledge and breadth of experience within state government to the agency. His transition within the Administration comes at a crucial time and we are fortunate that he accepted this responsibility," said Governor Brian Sandoval.
"I am honored to step into this role at a time when Governor Sandoval has introduced a bold vision for a new Nevada. I am ready to continue the legacy brought forth by the Governor of building bridges and reaching consensus," said Jim Wells.
Director of Administration Julia Teska will leave the position to accept a new opportunity and join her family in Colorado.
"Director Teska has been a dedicated and loyal member of my Administration and I sincerely appreciate her hard work and determination throughout the budget-building process. Julia is a tireless public servant and I am confident that she will ensure a smooth transition. I wish her all the best in the next chapter of her career, she will be missed by the Nevada family," said Governor Brian Sandoval.
"Serving Governor Sandoval and the citizens of Nevada has been a highlight of my career. It is with a heavy heart that I leave the Administration but I know that Jim Wells is up to this challenge. I would like to thank the Governor and his Chief of Staff, Mike Willden, for the trust they placed in me and for their commitment to set the path for a stronger Nevada," said Julia Teska.

Source:
