Public Statements
Huge Victory for Education in Nevada
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Dec. 10, 2014
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval and Superintendent of Public Instruction Dale Erquiaga are pleased to announce that Nevada has been selected as an award recipient of the U.S. Department of Education and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Preschool Development Grants program. The first year grant allotment is over $6.4 million with a potential allotment over the next four years exceeding $43 million.
"It is critical that we provide every child the opportunity to succeed in the classroom, starting with our youngest learners. These funds deliver the necessary resources for our most at-risk students to enter kindergarten on equal footing with their peers, giving them the foundation for continued success throughout their academic career. At the beginning of my Administration we recognized an unfulfilled demand for investment in early childhood education and committed ourselves to addressing this need," said Governor Brian Sandoval.
"This award is a major step forward and I remain committed to supporting efforts to expand these vital programs until all Nevada children have access to a quality education. I would like to personally thank Superintendent Erquiaga and his team for their tireless efforts in securing this funding which will fundamentally transform early education in Nevada," concluded Sandoval.
"This investment in young children is a game changer for the next generation of Nevada's students. This grant would not have happened without the leadership of Governor Brian Sandoval and First Lady Kathleen Sandoval who had the vision of including early childhood education programs within the Department of Education a year ago," said Superintendent Erquiaga.
Nevada was selected from thirty-six applications as one of five states which will be awarded a development grant. Approximately 1,400 students are served under the state's current program. These grant dollars will increase Nevada's preschool population by 58% over four years, serving approximately 15% of the state's four-year-old population living under 200% of federal poverty level.
These funds will directly support the quality of care within new and existing preschools within five counties in Nevada: Clark County, Washoe County, Lyon County, Churchill County and Nye County. The State of Nevada community partners include: the United Way of Southern Nevada; the State Public Charter School Authority; the Washoe County School District; Community Services Agency; The Children's Cabinet; University of Nevada, Reno; Las Vegas Urban League; City of Las Vegas; Lyon County School District; Churchill County School District and the Nye County School District.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2014/Huge-Victory-For-Education-in-Nevada/
