Public Statements
USA Funds Presents $1.25 Million to Support Nevada's Jobs for Americas Graduates at Inaugural Board Meeting
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Oct. 3, 2014
Location: Las Vegas, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval announced today USA Funds has selected Jobs for Nevada's Graduates Inc. (JAGNV) as the recipient of a $1.25 million grant. These funds will assist JAGNV achieve their expansion goal of 50 schools across Nevada by supporting new JAG programs in schools in Las Vegas. The grant was announced at the inaugural meeting of the JAGNV Board of Directors in Las Vegas, NV.
"I am thrilled to see Jobs for Nevada's Graduates continue to expand and positively impact schools across Nevada. I thank USA Funds for their generous contribution which will ensure that additional students will now be able to access this important program. JAGNV provides new opportunities to some of our most at-risk students and helps them identify new goals and opportunities for success. I congratulate Chairman Woodbeck and Executive Director Cantu for their commitment to education and students across the Silver State." said Governor Brian Sandoval.
"USA Funds is proud to partner with and support Jobs for Nevada's Graduates. This program has a proven track record of increasing graduation rates and motivating students to create a pathway to success after graduation. We look forward to continued success with JAGNV and thank Governor Sandoval and Chairman Woodbeck for the opportunity to help Nevada students attain the credentials and competencies that lead to productive and rewarding careers," said USA Funds President and CEO William D. Hansen.
"We are fortunate to have the continued support of Governor Sandoval and we are grateful for our new partner, USA Funds. This program has already seen measurable success across Nevada and this additional funding will guarantee more lives will be changed through this program. I am humbled to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors and I welcome their input and assistance as we move JAGNV forward," Frank Woodbeck, Chairman of the JAGNV Board.

Source:
