Public Statements
Governor Brian Sandoval Announces Over $9.9 Million in Federal Funding for the Nevada Community College Consortium
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Sept. 29, 2014
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today announced the Nevada Community College Consortium (NCCC) has been selected to receive $9,921,831 from the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training (TAACCCT) competitive grant program, which is co-administered by the Department of Labor and Department of Education.
"Partnerships between our community colleges and our business community are a cornerstone to a vibrant, sustainable economy. In order to continue diversifying our economy, we must demonstrate that our workforce is equipped to meet the needs of 21st century industries. I thank NSHE Chancellor Dan Klaich and the team at the Nevada Community College Consortium for their hard work in securing this funding," said Governor Brian Sandoval.
"We are proud to work with Governor Sandoval and the business community to help prepare today's graduates for the jobs of tomorrow. This funding is an investment in our students, our community, and will help move the Nevada System of Higher Education and our economy forward," said Chancellor Dan Klaich.
Western Nevada College was the lead college for this application submitted by the Nevada Community College Consortium. The grant money will benefit every county within the state of Nevada through their respective community colleges. Participating community colleges who will receive a portion of this funding include Western Nevada College, College of Southern Nevada, Truckee Meadows Community College, and Great Basin College. The NCCC will help meet the workforce needs across Nevada with a special emphasis on veterans and active duty military personnel.
The purpose of the TAACCCT grant is to provide community colleges and other eligible institutions of higher education with funds to partner with employers to expand and improve their ability to deliver education and career training programs that will help job seekers get the skills they need for in-demand jobs in industries like information technology, health care, energy, and advanced manufacturing. The maximum award amount that the consortium could have received was $10 million.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2014/Governor-Brian-Sandoval-Announces-Over-$9_9-Million-in-Federal-Funding-for-the-Nevada-Community-College-Consortium/
