Public Statements
Sandoval Announces Over $1.9 Million in Additional Federal Education Funding
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Sept. 26, 2014
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval announced today the Nevada Department of Education and Washoe County School District will receive over $1.9 million in additional federal funding from the U.S. Department of Education. This grant funding will support local programs designed to keep students safe and improve their learning environments.
"The safety of our children is second to none and it must remain a top priority within our communities. These funds provide our teachers with additional resources to create the best possible environment for Nevada's students to learn and grow. I thank Nevada Superintendent Dale Erquiaga and the team at the Nevada Department of Education for their tireless efforts in securing this funding and their commitment to our shared vision of improving student achievement and promoting excellence," said Governor Brian Sandoval.
"We know that school climate is one of the most important factors in student achievement and educator effectiveness," said Superintendent Erquiaga. "These grants will help move Nevada forward."
The School Climate Transformation grant to the Nevada Department of Education provides $748,340 for up to five years to develop, enhance, or expand statewide systems of support for, and technical assistance to, school districts and schools implementing an evidence-based, multi-tiered behavioral framework for improving behavioral outcomes and learning conditions for all students.
The Project Prevent grant provides funding to school districts to expand their capacity to more effectively assist schools in the community with pervasive violence to better meet the needs of students directly or indirectly exposed to violence. The $973,491 grant awarded to Washoe County School District will be used for school-based counseling services, or referrals to community-based counseling services for assistance in coping with trauma or anxiety; school based social and emotional supports for students to help address the effects of violence; and conflict resolution and other school-based strategies to prevent future violence. Funds also will be used to create a safer and improved school environment, which may include activities to decrease the incidence of harassment, bullying, violence, gang involvement and substance abuse.
The School Emergency Management grant provides $250,000 to the Nevada Department of Education to help expand their capacity to assist school districts in developing and implementing high-quality school emergency operations plans (EOPs).

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2014/Sandoval-Announces-Over-$1_9-Million-in-Additional-Federal-Education-Funding/
