Public Statements
Sandoval Announces Changes to Gaming Commission
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: July 18, 2014
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval announced today that Nevada Gaming Commission Chairman Pete Bernhard has decided not to seek reappointment and will resign effective June 30, 2014. The Governor has named Commissioner Tony Alamo, M.D., as incoming Chairman and has appointed Pat Mulroy to fill the open seat on the Commission.
"I respect the decision of Chairman Pete Bernhard to leave the Nevada Gaming Commission," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "Pete has served the Commission with great distinction for over 12 years, and his unmatched knowledge and expertise will be sorely missed. I thank him for his service to the state and wish him the very best with his future plans."
Chairman Bernhard has served on the Gaming Commission since 2001 and was most recently reappointed by Governor Sandoval in 2011.
"I have been honored to serve as Chair of the Gaming Commission and work with three Nevada Governors," Chairman Bernhard said. "Several months ago, I decided not to seek reappointment and recommended to Governor Sandoval that my successor be selected and available for pre-legislative budget and bill drafting activities. After asking me to reconsider my decision, Governor Sandoval left the timing up to me. I am extremely pleased that Governor Sandoval is appointing Commissioner Alamo as Chair and Pat Mulroy as a new Commissioner. I appreciate the support I've received from my colleagues on the Board and Commission, as well as the support of administrative staff."
Incoming Chairman Tony Alamo has served on the Gaming Commission since May 2008 and was most recently reappointed by Governor Sandoval in 2012.
"I am pleased that Tony has agreed to take over as Chair of the Gaming Commission," Governor Sandoval said. "Tony's background and experience chairing several state commissions will ensure a smooth transition for the Gaming Commission and its effective regulation of the gaming industry."
"I want to thank Governor Sandoval who has entrusted in me the privilege and confidence to follow retiring Chairman Pete Bernhard," said Alamo. "The Gaming Commission must continue to strive and maintain the highest level of integrity, predictability and stability. My regulatory experience, as well as the last six years working with fellow Commissioners, has given me the knowledge and ability to help lead the Commission."
Pat Mulroy, former General Manager of the Southern Nevada Water Authority (SNWA) will begin her term as Commissioner effective July 1, 2014.
"Pat has shown exceptional leadership skills throughout her career, most recently in her capacity as General Manager of the SNWA," said Governor Sandoval. "I am confident that she will make a great addition and bring a unique perspective to the Commission."
"I am extremely humbled to be asked to join this highly regarded regulatory team," Mulroy said. "I would like to thank Governor Sandoval for the trust he has placed with me and will strive to maintain the standard of integrity and diligence he expects from all his appointments."
Pat Mulroy served as General Manager of the Southern Nevada Water Authority from 1993 until retiring in February 2014. She also served as the General Manager of the Las Vegas Valley Water District from 1989 until her retirement. Additionally, she was the initial Chairperson of the Western Urban Water Coalition, is a former President of the Association of Metropolitan Water Agencies and has served on the Colorado River Water Users Association's board of directors.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2014/Sandoval-Announces-Changes-to-Gaming-Commission/
