Public Statements
Sandoval Named Chairman of Western Governor's Association
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: June 11, 2014
Location: Carson City, NV

At the 2014 annual meeting of the Western Governors' Association (WGA) in Colorado Springs, Colo., the WGA announced that Governor Brian Sandoval has been elected as Chairman of the organization. Governor Sandoval has served as Vice-Chairman of the WGA for the past year.
"I am honored to have been chosen to lead the Western Governors' Association for the coming year," said Governor Sandoval. "Now more than ever, western states are facing a wide range of interconnected issues that have the potential to harm our economies. The WGA is known for its fierce bipartisanship and I look forward to working with all western governors to promote promising and effective policy for our respective states."
"I would also like to thank Governor Hickenlooper for his leadership of the WGA over the past year," Sandoval added. "Governor Hickenlooper truly embodies the spirit of the WGA and has kept it true to its purpose. I look forward to the chance to build on the work he has done."
Governor Sandoval also announced the creation of the Western Governors Drought Forum which will be the Chairman's initiative for the next year. The goal of the initiative will be to bring western states together to combat drought, and to recommit the WGA to play a leading role in these efforts. Part of the initiative will include a series of meetings to facilitate a dialogue about best practices for drought management, water, energy, and agriculture.
"Drought still threatens this country's recovery from one of the worst economic recessions any of us have known," said Governor Sandoval. "The goal of the Western Governors Drought Forum will be to foster partnerships and collaboration between western states to better predict and manage drought in the years ahead. We will look to and embrace local, state, and private sector expertise to assist our states and the WGA in achieving these goals."

Source:
