Public Statements
Governors Sandoval and Markell Sign Multi-State Internet Gaming Agreement
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval Jack Markell
Date: Feb. 25, 2014
Location: Wilmington, DE

Governor Brian Sandoval and Delaware Governor Jack Markell took an important step forward in online gaming today, signing a first-in-the-nation Multi-State Internet Gaming Agreement that will eventually allow poker players in both states to play against each other online at the same virtual tables.
"This is truly a historic day for Nevada, Delaware, and the country. One year ago the Nevada Legislature passed and I signed an Internet gaming bill into law, and today we are just beginning to witness the potential of this legislation with the signing of this agreement," stated Governor Brian Sandoval. "The approach we've taken will allow us to pursue greater opportunities by establishing a strong framework for collaboration in this new frontier. The possibilities that are ahead of us are truly extraordinary. The agreement we've signed today provides the tools and the structure necessary for us to pioneer this expanding industry together, as states and as partners. I have had the pleasure of working with Governor Markell in the past and look forward to this partnership with the State of Delaware. I would like to thank him for his leadership and willingness to join Nevada in this new frontier of gaming."
The agreement develops a framework through which the two states will jointly adhere to minimum regulatory standards. It also allows Member States to retain the necessary control over who offers online gaming within their borders, and it allows Member States to pursue the particular applications of online gaming that make the most sense for them. For example, Nevada will only allow online poker games, and under this agreement, Member States have the flexibility and discretion to make those kinds of policy determinations for themselves.
"Gov. Sandoval and I both share the goal of ensuring that our states' gaming industries are as competitive as they can be, while ensuring that games are conducted fairly, honestly, and securely," said Governor Markell. "This Agreement represents a crucial step in Delaware's and Nevada's efforts to make our online poker offerings more diverse, more competitive, and ultimately more enjoyable. I am grateful for Governor Sandoval's support and leadership in this effort."

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2014/Governors-Sandoval-and-Markell-Sign-Multi-State-Internet-Gaming-Agreement/
