Public Statements
Sandoval Signs Executive Order Creating Behavioral Health and Wellness Council
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Dec. 16, 2013
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval on Friday signed an executive order establishing the Governor's Behavioral Health and Wellness Council. The Council will examine ways of improving and strengthening the systems of support and delivery of services to those living with behavioral health conditions in Nevada. An analysis of Nevada's mental health system, which began in May, will also be evaluated by this council.
"As we work to improve the delivery of mental health services in Nevada, we have spent the last few months analyzing our current system. There is a need to examine the relationships between state and local behavioral health providers, law enforcement agencies, and community partners," Governor Brian Sandoval said. "This council, comprised of members of the Legislature, law enforcement officials, national experts, and providers of behavioral health services in Nevada among others, will assist in closing gaps in services and offer policy recommendations to help improve the quality of life for those individuals living with behavioral health conditions in our state."
The creation of the council, for which the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) will provide administrative support, follows a recently completed DHHS analysis which provided recommendations to improve the delivery and availability of high-quality behavioral health services to individuals, their families, providers, communities and the state of Nevada as a whole.
"The HHS analysis further illustrated the need to determine the most effective use of resources to better serve the individuals living with behavioral health conditions in Nevada," Sandoval added. "This Council provides our state the opportunity to help close these gaps in services and improve our current system."
The council, which will submit a report to the Governor on or before May 31 and December 31 of each year, will also be divided into regional subcommittees and be subject to open meeting law requirements.
The full executive order can be found by clicking the link above under Attachments. Individuals appointed to the Council will be announced in the coming days.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2013/Sandoval-Signs-Executive-Order-Creating-Behavioral-Health-and-Wellness-Council/
