Public Statements
Sandoval Announces Veteran Initiatives
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Oct. 2, 2013
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today announced two important initiatives to improve the quality of life for Nevada's veterans. Via executive order, Sandoval has created the Governor's Military Council and Nevada has been selected for a National Governors Association (NGA) Policy Academy on veterans.
"We've been proud to be home to several important Active, Guard, and Reserve military bases and capabilities here in Nevada, and we owe them our every effort to protect and expand those assets," Governor Brian Sandoval said. "As importantly, as our veterans return home we must work to ensure they have the resources necessary to transition from military to civilian life as part of the Nevada family. This NGA policy academy is a perfect complement to the work we've already done with military spouse licensing reciprocity in Nevada."
The Governor's Military Council will serve to ensure that the State of Nevada is well positioned ahead of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process anticipated in 2015. The council, co-chaired by Kat Miller, the Director of the Nevada Department of Veterans Services, and Brigadier General William Burks, the Adjutant General of the Nevada National Guard, will gather leaders from Nevada's military communities, the retired military community, and state agencies to provide recommendations to the Governor, the legislature, and local governments on how to avoid base closures in Nevada. They will also prepare information on how Nevada's existing military infrastructure can be expanded as others are downsized through BRAC.
Sandoval also announced that the NGA has selected Nevada to participate in the Veterans' Licensing and Certification Demonstration Policy Academy. Nevada is one of six states selected for the academy.
As part of the academy, Nevada will develop a plan to help service members leaving the military gain the necessary civilian credentials as either a police officer, EMT/paramedic, or licensed practical nurse.

Source:
