Public Statements
Sandoval Signs Executive Order to Provide Opportunities for Disabled Workers
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Aug. 30, 2013
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval this week issued an executive order directing all state agencies to make a concerted effort to include persons with disabilities in the preliminary and final group of candidates considered for employment in an effort to allow people with disabilities greater opportunity to enter the workplace and to lead the way for businesses and other organizations to do the same.
"Every Nevadan who has the desire to go to work should be able to do so without being hindered because of a disability," Governor Brian Sandoval said. "My administration and DETR have been working on this initiative for some time. As we prepare to celebrate Labor Day and with this order, the state is reaffirming our commitment to providing opportunities for people with disabilities to participate in the economic growth of this state and including all Nevadans in workforce development activities."
The Rehabilitation Division of Nevada's Department of Training and Rehabilitation (DETR), estimates that currently one in five people in the US, and in Nevada, have a disability. The Division also estimates that as "baby boomers" age that proportion is likely to increase to one in three.
Nevada currently has in place a 700 hour program which offers state agencies a quick and efficient method to fill vacancies with a qualified candidate with a disability for 700 hours. The state also conducts the Preferred Purchase Program which streamlines governmental purchasing by allowing state and local government agencies to bypass the competitive bid process and purchase goods and services from registered community training centers which employ people with disabilities.
Additionally, under Sandoval's Executive Order the state will collect and utilize data regarding employees who have disabilities that up to this point has not been known.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2013/Sandoval-Signs-Executive-Order-to-Provide-Opportunities-for-Disabled-Workers/
