Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Leads efforts to Pursue All State Options to Defeat Yucca Mountain
Statement
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: March 29, 2017
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval issued the following update regarding the ongoing fight to stop Yucca Mountain from being used as the nation's nuclear waste dump:
"Following my discussion with U.S. Secretary of Energy Rick Perry, I convened a meeting with Robert Halstead, the Executive Director of the Nevada Agency for Nuclear Projects to discuss immediate actions the State should take in order to continue our ongoing and aggressive fight against the potential storage of high-level nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain. More than a decade ago, when I served as Nevada's Attorney General, I litigated this issue and I feel as strongly today as I did then that Yucca Mountain is incapable of safe storage of the world's most toxic substance. Nevada will oppose any federal government effort to dump nuclear waste here that will threaten our health and economy for centuries to come. We will leave no stone unturned as we pursue all viable options to defeat this ill-conceived project, including litigation.
"Beyond the courtroom, I will continue to press the Trump Administration to re-assess its actions to resurrect this dormant project. A better solution began earlier this year, when the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, working with the consent of a host state, accepted for review a private sector application for a high-level waste storage site in Texas. In the wake of such developments, continuing to spend taxpayer money on Yucca Mountain is ill-advised.
"Storing high-level nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain is a poor choice for so many reasons, including the site location which is 85 miles from downtown Las Vegas, the entertainment capital of the world, and proposed transportation corridors which would bring this waste directly through the heart of one of the fastest growing counties in the nation. The site itself is fractured rock, on top of a fault line, that sits above an aquifer. It is an unsafe site and developing Yucca Mountain is a bad idea. We will continue to fight against storing high-level nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain, and Nevada, its families, cities, small businesses, major industries, and most major stakeholders will continue to remain steadfast in our opposition."

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2017/Governor-Sandoval-Leads-Efforts-to-Pursue-All-State-Options-to-Defeat-Yucca-Mountain/
