Public Statements
Governor Signs MOU With Governor of Mexico
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: July 16, 2013
Location: Toluca, Mexico

Governor Brian Sandoval today joined with the Governor of the State of Mexico, Eruviel Avila, to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) which outlines areas of mutual interest to further enhance Mexico and Nevada's bilateral trade partnership.
"This Memorandum of Understanding is a step towards building upon our strong bilateral trade relationship with Mexico," Governor Brian Sandoval said. "Working together we will further develop industries of mutual interest including education, tourism, manufacturing and mining, among others. I look forward to the opportunities before us and I thank Governor Avila for signing this MOU."
The MOU also designates that Nevada and Mexico will embark on designing specific programs or projects of cooperation by establishing a relationship between public and private entities, engaging respective economic development agencies; working to increase investment in the identified industries; exchanging knowledge and experience with each other; developing professional training programs for the identified industries; facilitating visits between the countries for experts in targeted industries; and promoting the opportunities for business development that each country presents.
This evening, the United States Ambassador to Mexico, Ambassador E. Anthony Wayne, will host Governor Sandoval, GOED Director Steve Hill, members of the Nevada Delegation, and Mexico's government and business leaders at a reception at his residence. The Governor plans to address the attendees and highlight the unique business opportunities that make Nevada "a world within and a state apart."
ABOUT THE TRADE MISSION:
Members of the Nevada Delegation include: The Governor's Office of Economic Development; the University of Nevada Reno Business School; University of Nevada Reno College of Sciences; University of Nevada Las Vegas; the Desert Research Institute; the Clark County Regional Center; the Nevada Small Business Development Center Southern Nevada Operations; Vanguard Integrity Professionals, Inc.; American Pacific Corporation; Phoenix Industries, LLC; Law Offices of Andrea Szew; Snell & Wilmer; Molasky Group; VaOpto; Kimmie Candy; Mundo Restaurant; Brite Sol; Urban Nest; Retis Global Investments; and Flying ICU.
This is Governor Sandoval's third trade mission abroad. Last year, he led trade missions to The People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea and Canada.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2013/Governor-Signs-MOU-With-Governor-of-Mexico/
