Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Leads Trade Mission to Mexico
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: July 15, 2013
Location: Mexico City, Mexico

This weekend, Governor Brian Sandoval began a three-day trade mission to Mexico with the Nevada Governor's Office of Economic Development (GOED) and a Nevada delegation which includes business and education leaders from across the state. The purpose of the trade mission is to connect Nevada businesses with foreign opportunity and to strengthen the bilateral trade partnership between the State of Nevada and Mexico.
"Economic development and growing jobs is one of my top priorities as Governor. Mexico is Nevada's fifth largest export/import country and there is immense potential to fortify our existing partnership. This trade mission provides a great opportunity to strengthen our relationship and enhance economic opportunity both for us and for Mexico," Governor Brian Sandoval said. "I look forward to speaking with and learning from the individuals we will be meeting with during the mission."
This morning, Governor Sandoval and GOED Director Steve Hill led a meeting between representatives from Nevada's System of Higher Education and Mexico's Sub-Secretary of Education, Dr. Fernando Serrano Migallon, to discuss enhancing student/faculty exchanges for teaching certifications which are recognized by both Mexico and Nevada.
Governor Sandoval and Steve Hill also led a dialogue with Mexico's Council for Foreign Trade and Investment (COMCE), the nation's largest private-sector organization to promote International Trade and Foreign-Direct Investment.
ABOUT THE TRADE MISSION:
Members of the Nevada Delegation include: The Governor's Office of Economic Development; the University of Nevada Reno Business School; University of Nevada Reno College of Sciences; University of Nevada Las Vegas; the Desert Research Institute; the Clark County Regional Center; the Nevada Small Business Development Center Southern Nevada Operations; Vanguard Integrity Professionals, Inc.; American Pacific Corporation; Phoenix Industries, LLC; Law Offices of Andrea Szew; Snell & Wilmer; Molasky Group; VaOpto; Kimmie Candy; Mundo Restaurant; Brite Sol; Urban Nest; Retis Global Investments; and Flying ICU.
This is Governor Sandoval's third trade mission abroad. Last year, he led trade missions to The People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea and Canada.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/Press-Releases-2013/
