Public Statements
Sandoval Adds Millions to Education
Statement
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: May 13, 2013
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today announced that as a result of the Economic Forum projections, he is proposing to increase funding for English language learners and class size reduction in kindergarten.
"In my State of the State, I committed to taking the steps necessary to get every Nevada child to read at grade level by third grade. As more resources have become available, I have continued to invest in our children's education," Governor Brian Sandoval said. "We must provide our children with the skills they need to compete in the twenty-first century. This approach should be one that is comprehensive and includes school choice, funds English language learner programs, and reduces class sizes for kindergarten. However, we must also be mindful that while Nevada's economy is growing, we must avoid actions that will slow our recovery. Tax increases will only hurt job growth. I have no doubt we can fund our state's priorities without increasing taxes. I look forward to working with legislative leadership to accomplish these goals and end this session on time."
Sandoval has now proposed $50 million in total funding to English language learners (ELL). He is the first Nevada Governor to dedicate funds to English language learners. This proposal also provides $39.5 million for class size reduction in kindergarten which will reduce all-day kindergarten class sizes from a current average of 26 students per class to an average of 21 students per class.
The additional funds dedicated in the Governor's budget for all-day kindergarten, English language learners, class size reduction, Jobs for America's Graduates, Millennium Scholarship, and Teach for America now totals more than $120 million. Over the last biennium, the total spending on education has increased $483.9 million.
Under Governor Sandoval's Education Budget:
- 199 schools throughout the state will have an all-day K option with reduced class size.
- Per pupil spending is up from $7,539 in FY 13 to $7,916 in FY 15.
- $374.5 million is dedicated to class size reduction in kindergarten thru 3.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/news/item/4294974247/
