Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Meets with Officials from the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Sept. 19, 2012
Location: Beijing, China

As part of his Trade Mission to the People's Republic of China, Governor Brian Sandoval and representatives of the Governor's Office of Economic Development and the Nevada business delegation met with Vice Minister Wang Chao and officials of the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China.
Governor Sandoval and Vice Minister Wang discussed the strategic realignment of Nevada's economic development infrastructure and ways in which Nevada could partner with the Ministry to advance mutual interests. Krys Bart, CEO of the Reno-Tahoe International Airport, Robert Boyle of Tate Snyder Kimsey Architects, Ryan Costella of Click Bond, Joel Madison, CEO of Ebara, and Joe Dutra, President and CEO of Kimmie Candy Company represented Nevada's business delegation in the meeting. "Mister Wang was well versed on Nevada's economy and will be a strong strategic partner as we seek to increase Nevada's exports to China," Governor Brian Sandoval said.
After the discussion, Director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development, Steve Hill, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Mr. Liu Dianxun, Director General of the Chinese Investment Promotion Agency (CIPA). The memorandum builds upon a prior MOU that was signed by the Commission on Economic Development in 2009. "As CIPA seeks to identify states with business friendly policies, I want to ensure that Nevada tops the list" Director Hill said. "The updated MOU reflects Nevada's new strategic plan and illustrates Nevada's desire to build strong relationships in China."
CIPA, a division of the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China, is responsible for developing international partnerships that further the objectives of China's foreign investment strategies. The Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China is an executive level agency that is responsible for policy development in the areas of foreign direct investment and consumer protection.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/news/item/4294973810/
