Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Discusses China Trade Opportunities, Manufacturing and Logistics in Beijing
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Sept. 19, 2012
Location: Beijing, China

On the first leg of his Trade Mission to the People's Republic of China, Governor Brian Sandoval and the Nevada business delegation met with members of the U.S. Embassy staff and representatives of the United States Departments of Commerce, Treasury, Agriculture, and the divisions of Economics and Public Affairs of the Department of State.
Highlights of the briefings included a discussion on China's economy and investment strategy and business opportunities for the state of Nevada. The Governor's Office of Economic Development shared its desire to identify export markets in China and possible avenues for foreign direct investment while Nevada's business delegation was provided an opportunity to discuss their business interests with and ask questions of Embassy officials.
"Briefings with embassy staff and meetings with U.S. representatives provided our delegation with the opportunity to learn firsthand the complex nature of China's global economy and how Nevada can build lasting relationships with China's business community in an effort to grow our economy," Governor Brian Sandoval said. "These meetings will lay a foundation for further engagement and dialogue."
While in Beijing, Governor Sandoval was also given a tour of the National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) and met with the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC).
During his tour of the National Centre for Performing Arts, China's premier and most advanced performing arts center, Governor Sandoval met with the center's leadership and discussed the importance of such venues to international cities such as Beijing and Las Vegas. Governor Sandoval informed the center's leadership that Nevada recently celebrated the opening of the Smith Center in Las Vegas and he extended an invitation for them to visit the center. "In addition to exploring mutually beneficial opportunities for Nevada's business community," Governor Sandoval explained that "partnerships in the arts are extremely important to fostering cultural exchanges that will have broad and lasting impact."

Source:
