Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Launches Trade Mission With Las Vegas Asian Chamber Business Leaders
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Sept. 5, 2012
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today met with members of the Las Vegas Asian Chamber of Commerce to discuss his upcoming trade mission to the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Korea.
At a luncheon at the Greenland Supermarket, Sandoval spoke about his goal for the mission: identifying opportunities for Nevada companies to export their products and services to growing Asian markets, and encouraging Chinese and South Korean investment in Nevada. Sandoval was joined by the Director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development Steve Hill; President of the Las Vegas Asian Chamber, Dr. Terry Wong; and members of the trade mission business delegation.
The trade mission to the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Korea, Sept. 15-26, 2012, is the first of its kind in Nevada's history as it is the first Governor-led trade mission from Nevada to both countries. Nevada state and business delegates will seek to establish mutually beneficial relationships that will aid the state as it diversifies the economy and increases foreign direct investment.
The delegates on this historic trade mission represent an array of Nevada's diverse assets from natural resources, transportation and infrastructure, to education and innovative research. Each of the representatives brings a unique expertise and forward-thinking spirit that is representative of Nevada's pro-business climate. Among the business delegates participating in the mission are: Robert Boyle, Tate Synder Kimsey Architects; Jerome Snyder, Mobility, Inc.; Tom Piechota, UNLV; Krys Bart, Reno-Tahoe International Airport; Dr. Stephen Wells, Desert Research Institute; Manos Maragakis, University of Nevada, Reno; Joel Madison, Ebara Group;, Jay Chmelauskas, Western Lithium Corp.; Joe Dutra, Kimmie Candy; Ron Balducci, Pipeline Pacific, Inc.; Panch Prasad, U.S. International Trading Company; Michael Dermody, Dermody Properties; Tammy Dermody, Walton Funerals; and Tim Dyhr and Guilio Bonifacio, Nevada Copper.
"The timing couldn't be better for a Nevada trade mission to Asia," said Governor Sandoval. "China's growing influence in our global economy, and the recent implementation of the Korean Free Trade Agreement, provide our state with unique opportunities to advance our economic diversification and foreign direct investment. I am proud to join our business delegation in representing Nevada to both countries."

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/news/item/4294973801/
