Public Statements
Sandoval Signs Military Spouse Reciprocity Executive Order
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: May 7, 2012
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval this afternoon announced he has signed an executive order providing reciprocity for military spouses seeking licensure in Nevada. The order is effective immediately.
"Our state government is comprised of a number of professional licensing boards and commissions which have a direct impact on the lives of military spouses," Governor Brian Sandoval said. "Military spouses move from state to state far more often than the general population and Nevada is committed to doing everything we can to make their transition easier."
Under Executive Order 2012-11, every professional licensing board organized pursuant to the Nevada Revised Statues is ordered to:
* Facilitate endorsement of a current license from another state as long as the requirements for licensure in that jurisdiction are substantially equivalent to the requirements in Nevada; and
* Where possible, provide for a temporary or provisional license allowing a military spouse to practice while fulfilling requirements needed to qualify for endorsement in this state, or while awaiting verification of documentation supporting such an endorsement; and
* Expedite application procedures for a military spouse, including where possible the approval of a license based on an affidavit from the applicant that the information provided on the application is true and that verifying documentation has been requested.
In the case that statutory requirements prohibit any of the actions above, the executive director or chairman of a professional licensing board shall inform the Governor's office in writing of the suggested statutory changes to make reciprocity for military spouse licensure an efficient and practical reality.
"I was asked by First Lady Michelle Obama to spearhead military spouse efforts in Nevada and I was honored to assist," First Lady Kathleen Sandoval said. "The men and women of the United States Armed Forces and their families give selflessly of themselves in service of this nation and I am proud that Brian is working to support military spouses in this way."
"The Governor's Military Spouse reciprocity executive order is a vital piece of the puzzle in making the great State of Nevada the leader amongst all of the states in the treatment of our nation's service members and their families residing within our state's borders," Nevada National Guard Adjutant General William Burks added.
This executive order begins the effort on behalf of military families and could be followed by legislation in the 2013 Legislative Session.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/news/item/4294973521/
