Public Statements
Nevada Selected For NGA Policy Academy to Improve Higher Ed Performance Measures
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Oct. 17, 2011
Location: Carson City, NV

This morning, the National Governors Association (NGA) announced that Nevada has been selected to participate in a policy academy on strengthening postsecondary accountability systems. Defined by the NGA, a policy academy is a highly interactive, team-based process for helping a select number of states develop and implement an action plan to address a complex public policy issue.
"Nevada is diligently working to improve accountability systems and measures throughout the K-12 system and this policy academy will enable us to expand that work through the higher education realm," Governor Brian Sandoval said. "The work our team will be able to accomplish will complement the Legislature's interim funding study and inform decisions in the next biennium."
"As always, higher education's goals have been focused on continuous improvement in how we educate our students and how we help Nevada's economy prosper. I'm excited we were selected for the Complete to Compete Initiative and I am looking forward to working with the Governor and representatives of the legislature to define accountability metrics that will support our ongoing initiatives related to student success and effectiveness and efficiency," said Dan Klaich, chancellor of the Nevada System of Higher Education.
The NGA Policy Academy is aimed at improving postsecondary education accountability systems and consists of two workshops, technical assistance from NGA Center staff, and grants of up to $30,000 per state for additional expertise. The policy academy is designed to help states strengthen their postsecondary education systems by focusing on efficiency and effectiveness metrics in their accountability systems and incorporating those metrics into their decision making processes. The NGA Center will help selected states in their efforts to review and revamp their existing state postsecondary accountability system. States will also work with the NGA Center to identify ways to use efficiency and effectiveness metrics as part of the state's higher education policy agenda.
Nevada's governor-appointed state team consists of the following individuals: Heidi Gansert -- Chief of Staff, Julia Teska -- Budget Analyst from Department of Administration, Denice Miller -- VP of Government Relations, MGM Resorts International, Assemblyman Marcus Conklin, Nevada System of Higher Education Chancellor Dan Klaich and University of Nevada, Las Vegas President Neal Smatresk.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/news/item/4294972467/
