Public Statements
Sandoval Announces Economic Development And Staff Changes
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Sept. 21, 2011
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval announced this morning he has appointed Steve Hill as Interim Executive Director of the newly created Office of Economic Development. The position is a cabinet level position in Sandoval's administration. Hill will be joined at the Office of Economic Development by Terri Janison. Sandoval also announced Sonia Joya will join Sandoval's office as Southern Nevada Director.
Hill, currently the Sr. Vice President at CalPortland, a concrete, sand and gravel supplier in the Las Vegas area, will begin his position as Interim Executive Director of the Office of Economic Development effective October 3rd. During Governor-elect Sandoval's transition, Hill served as Chair of the Economic Development Policy Committee and advised the Governor, Speaker and Majority Leader on economic development issues in preparation for the 2011 Legislative session. Hill is also a current member of the Commission on Economic Development.
In his position as Interim Executive Director, Hill will be responsible for developing a State Plan for Economic Development and criteria for the designation of regional development authorities. Hill will also work to establish procedures for entering into contracts with regional development authorities to provide services to aid, promote, and encourage the economic development of this State.
"As a businessman, a former Chairman of the Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce and Chairman of Service 1st Bank of Nevada, Steve has the knowledge and experience to bring new business to Nevada while guiding the Economic Development Office," Governor Sandoval said. "I am pleased that Steve has agreed to lead the Office as Interim Director and I look forward to working with him to revitalize Nevada's economy."
Janison will join the Office of Economic Development as a Regional Director, effective October 3rd. Currently Sandoval's Director of Community Relations and a former Clark County School Board President, Janison will work with Hill and have responsibilities for outreach, business relationships and coordination with education and workforce development.
"Terri has done outstanding work in Southern Nevada bringing coalitions together and building our Southern Nevada office," Governor Sandoval said. "I thank her for her service to her fellow Nevadans and I wish her all the best as she begins her new job helping to diversify our economy."
Sonia Joya, most recently the State Director for former U.S. Senator John Ensign, begins her new position on October 3rd. A graduate of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Joya was Southern Nevada Director for then-Governor Kenny Guinn in 1999. Joya has served in director capacities for elected officials in Nevada for over 15 years.
"I am thrilled that Sonia has agreed to return to state service," Governor Sandoval said. "Sonia's experience in the day-to-day operations of the Governor's office as well as Nevada's Congressional offices gives her a unique perspective and skill set as she begins this job."

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/news/item/4294972129/
