Public Statements
Nevada Commission on Economic Development Release: Nevada Tops U.S. Chamber of Commerce Ranking List
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Aug. 23, 2011
Location: Carson City, NV

Nevada ranks high on the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's recently released "Enterprising States: Recovery and Renewal for the 21st Century" report.
"To be ranked first in export intensity growth and export growth among other Western states like Alaska, California, Hawaii, Oregon and Washington is a real point of pride for our state," said Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval.
The study, Enterprising States, focuses on what makes certain states attractive places to locate, relocate and expand in this uncertain economy; the unintended consequences of cutting certain items from a state budget; and what types of investments the public and private sectors can make now to improve the economy in the future.
"Ranking high on the U.S. Chamber list will help Nevada overcome negative perceptions that exist in the marketplace," said Michael Skaggs, executive director of the Nevada Commission on Economic Development. "For example, ranking third in Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) job growth demonstrates that Nevada has a growing skilled workforce ready for business looking to relocate or expand in Nevada."
Nevada's place in the Rankings:
1st Export Intensity Growth
1st Export Growth
2nd State and local tax burden
2nd Small business survival index
3rd STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) job growth
4th Business birth rate
4th Business tax climate
4th Job placement efficiency
5th Entrepreneurial activity
9th Long term job growth
9th Gross state product growth
9th Growth in share of national exports
"Signs of increased economic activity are beginning to emerge," Sandoval said. "Having the U.S. Chamber of Commerce recognize the variety of areas where Nevada excels bodes well for getting Nevadans back to work, attracting new businesses to the state, growing existing businesses and fulfilling opportunities to bring Nevada into its new economic reality."

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/news/item/4294971961/
