Public Statements
Sandoval Takes Investigative Tour of Lake Tahoe
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: June 27, 2011
Location: Carson City, NV

Continuing his pattern of briefings on issues of importance to the state, Governor Brian Sandoval today embarked on an investigative tour of Lake Tahoe. Joined by Department of Conservation and Natural Resources Director Leo Drozdoff and TRPA representative Steve Robinson, Sandoval visited the Boulder Bay project and toured the Aquatic Invasive Species Inspection Station.
"Today's investigative tour was very valuable and good preparation for the Tahoe Summit in August," Governor Sandoval said. "I appreciate the work of DCNR Director Drozdoff and his staff in putting today's tour together."
Beginning this morning, Sandoval toured the Aquatic Invasive Species Inspection Station, Lake Tahoe Nevada State Park and learned about protecting the Tahoe Yellow Cress. Sandoval inspected the Tunnel Creek Fuels Reduction site with Nevada Division of Forestry Conservation Crews and received an update on the state of fuels work on Nevada's side of Lake Tahoe as well as prescribed burns. At mid-morning, Sandoval toured the Incline Stream Restoration Project and heard about private-public partnerships to restore and sustain Tahoe clarity. At the Boulder Bay Project, Sandoval received an update on road improvements and the water quality grant.
The 15th Annual Lake Tahoe Summit, an important yearly gathering of federal, state and local leaders dedicated to addressing the needs of restoring and sustaining Lake Tahoe as one of our most precious environmental treasures will be held this year on August 16th.
"As a former at-large representative on the TRPA, I understand the importance of Lake Tahoe to our state as well as the need to preserve the quality of the Lake," Governor Sandoval added. "Today's investigative tour provided a welcome opportunity to see first-hand the status of projects at Lake Tahoe and the lake itself. As we protect the Tahoe environment and ensure responsible development, staff at DCNR is working closely with TRPA and the state of California as we discuss the future of Lake Tahoe."

Source:
