Public Statements
Sandoval Statement on Appointment of Senator Ensign's Replacement
Statement
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: April 27, 2011
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today issued the following statement announcing his intention to appoint Congressman Dean Heller (R-NV) to the United States Senate:
"The people of Nevada deserve a new senator who can begin work immediately. Too many important issues face our state and our nation to name a caretaker to this important position; Nevada needs an experienced voice in Washington, DC.
"Dean Heller currently represents 16 Nevada counties in their entirety and parts of Nevada's most populous county, Clark County. Dean has served as a statewide Constitutional officer for 12 years, as a member of the Nevada Legislature, and is serving his third term in the U.S. House of Representatives. He has quickly risen through the ranks within the United States House of Representatives. Dean is an experienced representative who is ready for the responsibilities of this office, and who will work hard, not just for Nevada, but for the entire nation.
"A fiscal conservative who believes in limited government, Dean will fight to keep taxes low and balance the federal budget. He understands that the federal government spends too much money and places too many regulatory burdens on small business. Just as Senator John Ensign fought for states' rights and sound economic policies, Dean will speak out for the concerns of every-day Nevadans. I am confident he will help get Nevada working again.
"Dean Heller is a compassionate man of deep personal integrity, with a down-to-earth approach to public service. I have no doubt Dean will serve Nevada in the Senate for many years, and I look forward to working with him on behalf of the state we both love so much.
"Recognizing that this appointment will create a vacancy in the office of U.S. Representative from Nevada's Second Congressional District, I pledge to work closely with Secretary of State Ross Miller on the timing of the upcoming transition and resulting special election. I have asked Secretary Miller to provide me with information on the rules for conducting this election at his earliest convenience."

Source: http://nv.gov/GovPR.aspx?id=4294970151
