Public Statements
Leaders Working Together in Case of Federal Government Shutdown
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: April 8, 2011
Location: Carson City, NV

Late yesterday afternoon, the Governor's Office, the Speaker of the Assembly, the Majority Leader of the Senate and the Minority Leaders of both Houses came together to discuss the effects of a federal government shutdown on the state.
"In addition to continuing to receive information from cabinet officials, my office met with Leadership yesterday to discuss the effects a shutdown of the federal government would have on Nevada," Governor Sandoval said. "We want to be prepared so we can provide information to our fellow Nevadans."
"All eyes are on Washington, D.C. today as we await word of a possible federal government shutdown," Speaker John Oceguera said. "We hope a shutdown can be averted, but if it cannot, Nevadans can be reassured to know that their elected leaders are working together to mitigate the effects it may have on them."
"I'm certain our Nevada state agencies will do everything they can to fill gaps in services if the federal shutdown occurs, in particular services for our most vulnerable citizens," Senate Majority Leader Steven Horsford said.
The impacts of a federal government shutdown may be felt at the following state agencies:
- National Guard
- Health and Human Services
- Department of Employment, Training and Rehabilitation
- Wildlife Services
- Department of Business and Industry's Occupational Safety and Health Administration Information Technology
- State Historic Preservation Office
Any state employee paid with federal funds through grants or programs could be furloughed.
In addition, many positions and applications require a federal background check and new applicants for licenses may experience delays. Certain local government functions may also be impacted.
The waits for new Unemployment Insurance claims, new claims to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), to Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and new claims to Women, Infants and Children (WIC) could be longer.
"We are working with our federal delegation to get real time information," Sandoval added. "We will keep Nevadans informed."

Source: http://nv.gov/GovPR.aspx?id=4294969864
