Public Statements
Sandoval Announces Award Recipients for $10 Million in Graduate Medical Education Funding; Helping More of Nevada's Medical Students Remain in the Silver State
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Oct. 25, 2016
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today announced he had accepted the Graduate Medical Education (GME) Task Force recommendations for distribution of the $10 million approved in the Governor's executive budget during the 2015 legislative session. Within four years, this funding is expected to create 304 new GME positions across Nevada which will help ensure more of Nevada's medical students will remain in the Silver State to practice medicine.
"Currently Nevada is producing more undergraduate medical students than residencies available in our state. That means that highly educated students are forced to leave the Silver State at a time when they are beginning real-world application of their advanced education. Nevada needs more doctors now, and these positions will assist the state in attracting, educating and retaining the best new doctors in America," said Governor Brian Sandoval.
On March 11, 2014, Governor Sandoval issued EO 2014-07 establishing a GME Task Force to develop recommendations for state funding of GME in the 2015 legislative session. The Governor accepted the recommendations and included $10 million for GME in his executive budget in the 2015 session, which was approved by the Legislature. In 2015, the Governor issued EO 2015-30, reestablishing the GME Task Force and charging it with providing recommendations on how to best distribute the $10 million allocated by the Legislature towards improving GME in Nevada. The Task Force developed a Request for Proposals and solicited applications from accreditor-approved GME programs or sponsoring institutions, evaluated the proposals and made recommendations to the Governor for funding. The first $5 million tranche was awarded in May and the second $5 million tranche was awarded in October.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2016/Sandoval-Announces-Award-Recipients-for-$10-Million-in-Graduate-Medical-Education-Funding;-Helping-More-of-Nevada%E2%80%99s-Medical-Students-Remain-in-the-Silver-State/
