Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Signs Statement of Intent with State of Queensland to Collaborate on Mining, Education, Water, and Technology Innovation
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Aug. 4, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Brian Sandoval was joined by the Nevada Delegation today as he signed a Statement of Intent with the Premier of Queensland, Annastacia Palaszczuk, to advance relations between Nevada and Queensland to strengthen collaboration in the mining sector specifically as well as higher education, water, technology, and innovation.
"Queensland's focus on innovation presents a unique opportunity to help propel many of our key industries into the future," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "Through the Statement of Intent, we have committed to collaborate with the State of Queensland in areas of mutual benefit to ensure that we are working together to increase trade and investment opportunities. The Governor's Office of Economic Development will take the lead on ushering this partnership through, and I look forward to seeing the collaborative projects that will serve to increase our competitiveness in mining, education, water and technology."
The State of Nevada and The State of Queensland (the Parties) recognise the importance of developing cooperation and collaboration for mutual benefit.
The purpose of this Statement of Intent is to advance relations between the Parties to strengthen cooperation and to facilitate mutually beneficial outcomes that enhance the development of the mining sector with a view to increasing trade and investment opportunities for both states.
The Parties agree to explore the potential for enhancing networks, alliances and collaborative projects between their respective organizations which will aim to deliver mutual benefits.
Through this Statement of Intent the Parties aim to prioritise their focus on cooperation to establish relationships with similar associations in order to develop a platform for sharing challenges and best practices across, but not limited to, the following areas:
mining including mining technologies, health and safety and environmental and social sustainability in mining
higher education including research and commercialization partnerships
water management including collaboration on water efficiency technologies
technology and innovation including pathways for market access for start-ups and established technology companies
The forms of joint initiatives and collaborations may include, but will not be limited to:
Facilitation of regular dialogue and promotion of opportunities between the Parties;
Collaborative initiatives and projects to further develop government, commercial and institutional ties
Trade missions to support commercial relationships
Exchange of information and best practices on opportunities for mutual benefit;
Trade and Investment Queensland and Nevada Governor's Office of Economic Development will be jointly responsible for coordinating dialogue and facilitating any resultant activities. Either Party may propose action plans linked to the proposed activities that may be added as appendices to this agreement. Such activities will be at the discretion of and subject to the available resources of each Party.
This Statement of Intent:
will be effective from the date of final execution and remain in force for three (3) years;
may be modified or extended by agreement in writing between the Parties;
may be terminated by either Party giving three months' notice in writing; and
will not create a legal relationship between the Parties, demonstrate an intention to enter into a legal relationship, or create any legal, contractual or financial rights or obligations for either Party.
Following the signing, the Nevada Delegation was hosted at a state luncheon by Premier Palaszczuk where further avenues for partnership were identified and discussed.
In addition to the signing of the Statement of Intent, the Nevada Delegation and Governor Sandoval were provided with a presentation and facility tour at the Sustainable Mineral Institute at the University of Queensland, St. Lucia where they also participated in an education roundtable with faculty and school leadership.
Mining was also the focus of the delegation when the Governor had a meeting with David Camerlengo, Queensland's Trade and Investment Commissioner for North America as well as an opportunity to talk about Nevada's role in mining innovation with Dr. Anthony Lynham, Minister for Natural Resources.
The day concluded with a networking event hosted by the Queensland Resource Council in which Governor Sandoval and Deputy Premier Jackie Trad spoke about collaborative trade endeavors.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2016/Governor-Sandoval-Signs-Statement-of-Intent-with-State-of-Queensland-to-Collaborate-on-Mining,-Education,-Water,-and-Technology-Innovation/
