Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Launches the Office of Workforce Innovation
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: July 22, 2016
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today officially announced the launch of the Office of Workforce Innovation (OWINN) which will be led by Executive Director Manny Lamarre. OWINN will help promote a skilled, diverse, and aligned workforce in the State of Nevada by building cooperation and collaboration among all entities focused on workforce development.
"Nevada's economic success and recovery require the state to develop a workforce that is ready to meet the demands of the new Nevada economy. This office will ensure that our limited resources are spent prudently and strategically," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "I am proud to appoint Manny to this new position and am confident he has the right experience and character to lead this effort."
"I am deeply humbled by the opportunity to serve the state and contribute to Governor Sandoval's bold vision of a new Nevada. I look forward to continuing to work with this smart and dedicated team and the broader workforce community who are deeply committed to the state's success," said Manny Lamarre, OWINN's Executive Director. "The seed for how states should strategically prepare for the future of workforce development is being planted here and I look forward to seeing those seeds blossom in the Nevada ecosystem."
Manny's background includes teaching and coaching, grants and project management, and policy advising. Manny holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from Wittenberg University and a Master's in Education Policy and Management from the Harvard Graduate School of Education, where he was the recipient of the Class Marshal Award for leadership, service, and being an exemplary representative of the Harvard community. He also holds a design patent for an invention and enjoys writing poetry and working out.
In March of 2016, Governor Sandoval issued Executive Order 2016-08 which created OWINN within the Office of the Governor using federal funds reserved for statewide workforce investment activities from the Workforce Investment Opportunity Act (WIOA). The creation of OWINN is aligned with WIOA's vision of a seamless workforce system that helps job seekers access employment, education, training, and other support services.

Source:
