Public Statements
Governor Bullock Named Chairman of the Western Governors' Association
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper Matt Mead Steve Bullock Brian Sandoval
Date: June 14, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

The Western Governors Association formally seated Governor Steve Bullock as their new Chairman at the association's annual meeting today. Governor Bullock takes over the Chairmanship from Governor Matt Mead of Wyoming and will hold the position for one year.
"We've made great strides in Montana with our "Forests in Focus' initiative," said Bullock. "Other western states are trying different approaches, and I look forward to hearing about them from my colleagues and other stakeholders, and charting a course for improving the health of our forests and public lands."
Nine Western Governors, led by outgoing WGA Chairman Gov. Matt Mead, attended the meeting in Jackson. They included Steve Bullock (Montana, WGA Vice Chair), Doug Ducey (Arizona), C.L. "Butch" Otter (Idaho), John Hickenlooper (Colorado), Brian Sandoval (Nevada), Jack Dalrymple (North Dakota), Dennis Daugaard (South Dakota), and Gary R. Herbert (Utah).
After taking over as Chairman, Governor Bullock announced his Chair's initiative would center on improving forest and rangeland management. Governor Bullock developed his "Forests in Focus" program from the authorities of the 2014 Farm Bill to nominate 5 million acres of national system forest lands for designation as Priority Landscapes to accelerate forest restoration in Montana.
"I have appreciated Governor Bullock's leadership as vice chairman of the Western Governors' Association and chairman of our resolutions committee," said Wyoming Governor Matt Mead. "Governor Bullock embodies the bipartisan spirit of the Western Governors' Association. I witnessed his strength first-hand on our trip to Washington, D.C. to testify before Congress on the Endangered Species Act, public lands management and other important Western issues. It has been my privilege to serve alongside him. I look forward to his leadership as chairman and his Forest and Rangeland Management Initiative."

Source:
