Public Statements
Sandoval Appoints Tony Wren to Nevada Tax Commission
Statement
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: May 26, 2016
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today announced the appointment of Anthony "Tony" Wren to the Nevada Tax Commission for a term ending October, 2019. Governor Sandoval also named current Commissioner James "Jim" DeVolld Chairman of the Board following the resignation of Commissioner Joan Lambert. Both appointments are effective as of Monday, May 23, 2016.
Tony Wren is a partner at Anthony J. Wren and Associates, a full service real estate appraisal firm in Reno, Nevada. For more than 30 years, Wren has worked as an independent fee appraiser in Northern Nevada and has received the Senior Residential Appraiser, Senior Real Property Appraiser and MAI designations. Mr. Wren has been active in the Reno-Carson-Tahoe Chapter of the Appraisal Institute having served as a member of the Board of Directors and previously as the chapter president. Mr. Wren has previously served the State as a member of the Nevada Commission of Appraisers and the Nevada State Board of Equalization.
"Tony will bring a small business perspective to the Tax Commission and help ensure processes are efficient for our thriving private sector," said Governor Sandoval. "He has served our state well in the past and I am confident he will be a positive addition to the Commission."
Jim DeVolld was appointed to the Tax Commission in 2012. He is the former President / CEO of First Independent Bank of Nevada, a mid-sized community bank he helped launch as a start-up venture in 1999. Mr. DeVolld is a graduate of the Pacific Coast Banking School at the University of Washington. He has 37 years of experience in banking and currently assists LP Insurance, a $20 million west coast based rapidly growing regional insurance brokerage firm, with mergers and acquisitions. He plays a key role in capital management, strategic planning, and corporate governance.
The Nevada Tax Commission consists of eight citizens appointed by the Governor. In addition, the Governor is an ex-officio, non-voting member. Each commissioner will serve an initial four-year term, and can serve more than one term. The Commission is designed to be a group of business people with various professional backgrounds. Members of the Commission receive compensation as dictated by Nevada Revised Statute 360.050 which states the Chair is entitled to receive an annual salary of $27,500 and each of the other commissioners is entitled to receive an annual salary of $20,000.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2016/Sandoval-Appoints-Tony-Wren-to-Nevada-Tax-Commission/
