Public Statements
First Lady Kathleen Sandoval Encourages All Nevadans to Participate in Denim Day
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: April 26, 2016
Location: Carson City, NV

First Lady Kathleen Sandoval today encouraged all Nevadans to join her in participating in Denim Day tomorrow, Wednesday, April 27th. By participating in Denim Day, Nevadans will join an international campaign against sexual assault and sexual violence and demonstrate support for victims of those crimes.
"When we work together and raise awareness of sexual assault, expand access to services for survivors, and help find solutions to address this growing problem, we strengthen the fabric of our communities. Denim Day is a sign of our commitment to the survivors across our state and an acknowledgement of our solemn responsibility to help in the fight against sexual assault and sexual violence," said First Lady Kathleen Sandoval. "As Nevada's First Lady, I am extremely proud of the efforts of our schools, community organizations and policy makers to address sexual assault. I encourage all Nevadans to join me in wearing denim this Wednesday and show your support as we work to build a better Nevada."
During the 78th Legislative Session, Assembly Bill 212 was approved by the Legislature and signed into law by Governor Brian Sandoval. This measure amends the statute of limitations for the filing of a criminal charge for sexual assault from 4 years to 20 years after the commission of the offense. Signing of this legislation represented a major step forward in protecting victims of sex crimes and empowering them with more time and opportunity to seek justice.
Denim Day is part of a movement to raise awareness of sexual assault. Local organizations including the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges, The Children's Cabinet, and the University of Nevada, Las Vegas will participate in this annual event. The "fashion statement as social statement" stems from a 1999 incident in Italy in which a court assigned blame to a young woman who was sexually assaulted because she was wearing tight jeans when she was raped. Italian elected officials responded by wearing jeans in protest and denim has since become a symbol of the need to prevent sexual assault. The Governor's Office will be participating in this important public awareness initiative.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2016/First-Lady-Kathleen-Sandoval-Encourages-All-Nevadans-to-Participate-in-Denim-Day/
