Public Statements
Nevada Announces More than $11.2 Million in Homeland Security Funding
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Feb. 16, 2016
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today announced the State of Nevada has received more than $11.2 million in federal grant funding from the United States Department of Homeland Security. Nevada secured $3,734,500 from the State Homeland Security Program for federal fiscal year 2016. Additionally, Nevada was awarded $2,962,000 for fiscal year 2016 from the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) program. The eligible urban area for the UASI funding is the Las Vegas Area. Nevada also received a total of $4,500,000 from the Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG) Program which allocates funds to enable the state to develop a system of emergency preparedness to protect life and property from hazards.
"These funds are critical to Nevada. They enhance state and local public safety officials' ability to complete their mission and fulfill their commitment of protecting our state," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "The Department of Homeland Security grant programs enhance all levels of government and tribal jurisdictions by improving their ability to ensure the safest environment for our citizens, and millions of tourists visiting the Silver State. I would like to thank Secretary Jeh Johnson for his consideration and look forward to continue working with him and our state, local and federal partners toward the common goal of keeping Nevadans safe."
"An extraordinary amount of work goes into securing these crucial investments in Nevada's preparedness efforts, and accomplishing this level of success requires a team effort," said Caleb Cage, the Chief of the Department of Public Safety's Division of Emergency Management. "We look forward to carrying that statewide teamwork forward with all of our local, state, and tribal partners to ensure we meet the Governor's vision for safe and livable communities in our state."
The DHS grant program allocates grant funding that enhances the ability of states, as well as local, tribal and territorial jurisdictions and other regional authorities in the preparation, prevention, and response to terrorist attacks and other disasters. Localities can use grants for planning, equipment, training and exercise needs.
These funds are used to support the following top-five priorities determined for the state by the Nevada Commission on Homeland Security which Sandoval serves on as Chairman:
Cyber Security (Mission area: Protection)
Intelligence and Information Sharing (Mission area: Prevention)
Public Information and Warning (Mission area: All)
Operational Coordination (Mission area: All)
Operational Communications (Mission area: Response)

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2016/Nevada-Announces-More-Than-$11_2-Million-in-Homeland-Security-Funding/
