Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Joins Bipartisan Governors Accord for a New Energy Future
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Feb. 16, 2016
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today joined with a bipartisan group of 17 governors in announcing the Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future - a joint commitment to take action to promote clean energy, clean transportation choices and a modern electrical grid.
The Accord provides participating governors -- a bipartisan coalition together representing 124 million Americans -- with a platform through which their states will collaborate, learn from one another, and leverage partnerships in energy planning and policymaking.
"Nevada is considered a national leader in renewable energy development, innovation and commercialization. This bipartisan Accord provides a platform for Nevada to leverage new partnerships, gain and share knowledge and an opportunity to introduce our energy advancements to other states," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "I remain committed to pursue policies that will allow Nevada to continue to lead the nation in renewable energy production, energy conservation, and the exportation of energy. Nevada has many energy accomplishments and will continue to seek opportunities that build upon our existing programs and create new pathways to ensure that our energy sector remains one of the cleanest in the country."
"American prosperity has always depended on embracing new ideas and technologies," states the Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future. "Embracing new energy solutions allows us to expand our economy while protecting the health of our communities and natural resources. These improvements will help secure a safe and prosperous future for our country.
"We recognize that now is the time to embrace a bold vision of the nation's energy future, and to do so, states are once again poised to lead."
Democratic and Republican signatories to the Accord commit that their states will continue to diversify energy generation and expand clean energy sources, modernize energy infrastructure, and encourage clean transportation options. The sixteen participating governors represent states that vary considerably in their energy mix and policy portfolios. However, these governors have committed to working together to make transformational policy changes to secure a stronger energy future for their states and the nation.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2016/Governor-Sandoval-Joins-Bipartisan-Governors-Accord-for-a-New-Energy-Future/
