Public Statements
Sandoval Signs Emergency Regulation to Immediately Address Teacher Shortage
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Feb. 5, 2016
Location: Carson City, NV

Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval today announced he has endorsed a Statement of Emergency at the request of Interim-Superintendent of Public Instruction Steve Canavero to issue provisional teaching licenses, effective immediately. This authorization will allow Nevada to address the urgent teacher shortage through the issuance of provisional licenses to a large number of otherwise qualified individuals who would not have been eligible to become Nevada teachers prior to Sandoval's approval. The request follows a recent change in federal law which prohibited the State from issuing provisional licenses because of risking education federal funding.
"Many people have been seeking solutions to the teacher shortage and I am proud to support this measure from the Nevada Department of Education which will allow the state to immediately address the needs of our schools," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "Nevada's economy is one of the fastest growing in the nation, largely contributing to our dynamic population growth. This emergency authorization capitalizes on that growth in a positive way and will specifically help the Clark County School District with its out-of-state teacher recruitment."
"The Clark County School District is appreciative of this action taken by Governor Sandoval. This will enhance our recruiting efforts. It will give teachers who hold a full teaching license in other states the ability to be placed in a classroom to begin working with our students. This action is beneficial for all school districts across our great state and will help us to achieve the Governor's vision of a new Nevada," said Clark County School District Superintendent Pat Skorkowsky.
The emergency regulation approved by Governor Sandoval today can be permanently codified by the Nevada Department of Education through the standard regulation adoption process. That process can takes months, so Interim Superintendent Canavero responded to the Governor's desire to have Nevada assist Clark County and all school districts as quickly as possible. In 2015, the Governor approved teacher hiring incentives and the Teach Nevada Scholarship to enhance recruitment. This emergency authorization is another component of the administration's efforts.
"This emergency provision will have an immediate impact by allowing teachers to have up to one year to fulfill the final requirements of licensure." said State Interim-Superintendent of Public Instruction Steve Canavero. "A good teacher has the ability to improve a child's education experience and a great teacher will help us transform Nevada's delivery of education. I would like to thank Governor Sandoval for taking immediate action and I look forward to implementing this new policy across the Silver State."
Background:
The Office of the Nevada Attorney General issued an opinion on May 13, 2014, based on then-existing federal law that the issuance of provisional teaching licenses by the Superintendent of Public Instruction may jeopardize Nevada's receipt of federal funding. Nevada ensured compliance with federal law by enacting regulations prohibiting the Superintendent from issuing provisional licenses.
On December 10, 2015, the President of the United States signed the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), S 1177 into law. Title I, Part A, Section 1000(1) of the ESSA repealed 20 USC 6319(a) and Title VII, Part A, Section 8002 of the ESSA repealed 20 USC 7801(23), and removed Nevada's federal funding concerns. Now that federal law has been revised, Nevada is seizing the opportunity to address its historic and urgent teacher shortage through the issuance of provisional licenses to otherwise qualified individuals who have not completed all of the requirements for full renewable certification.
This is the second emergency regulation Governor Sandoval has signed during his tenure as Governor.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2016/Sandoval-Signs-Emergency-Regulation-to-Immediately-Address-Teacher-Shortage/
