Public Statements
NV Students First in the Nation to Launch the Billion Ebooks Gift Program
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Feb. 2, 2016
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today announced Nevada would be the first state in the nation to partner with Ustyme to launch the Billion eBook Gift Program in an effort to promote early literacy and encourage family reading. Sandoval was joined by representatives from Washoe County School District including Debbie O'Gorman, principal of Kate Smith Elementary School, Dr. Angie Taylor, President of Washoe County School District Board of Trustees, Linda Salesky, Founder of Ustyme, Nick Balian, Illustrator for Ustyme, Mike Kazmierski, President and CEO of EDAWN and students from Kate Smith Elementary School.
"Literacy is a key component to all of our student's success. When a child can read it can spur creativity, develop the imagination and help unlock their learning potential. This gift will provide all Nevada children with greater access to high-quality books and give families a resource to help their children build good reading habits at a young age," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "I am pleased that this technology was developed in Nevada and that our students were selected as the first in the nation to receive this innovative resource."
"We are excited to have the Washoe County School District be the first in Nevada to embrace the Billion eBook Gift Program," said Linda Salesky, Co-Founder of Ustyme. "Ultimately, the most important gift for every child is spending more time together with the caring adults in their life. Having 50 great books in your pocket or tablet anywhere, anytime, gives families more time together to read and share, which improves cognitive development and language skills in young children and helps them read with confidence."
Ustyme gives free e-books to all Nevada students as part of their Billion eBooks Gift initiative, providing a selection of 50 free children e-books to anyone who visits BillioneBookGift.org. This announcement was made today at Kate Smith Elementary School in Sparks where Governor Brian Sandoval gave his support and shared enthusiasm to encourage reading with children. Nevada is the first state to launch this program.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2016/NV-Students-First-In-the-Nation-to-Launch-the-Billion-Ebooks-Gift-Program/
