Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Announces 8 Official STEM Schools
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: May 17, 2017
Location: Unknown

The Advisory Council on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM Council) and the Governor's Office of Science, Innovation and Technology (OSIT) today announced the official designation of eight schools as Nevada Governor Designated STEM Schools.
The eight designated schools are:
Advanced Technologies Academy, Las Vegas
Cashman Middle School, Las Vegas
Clark High School, Las Vegas
Hyde Park Middle School, Las Vegas
Kate Smith Elementary School, Sparks
McCaw STEAM Academy, Henderson
Walter Bracken STEAM Academy, Las Vegas
White Pine High School, Ely
"I am impressed with the vision and leadership of the principals and teachers of these schools and am proud to honor them as the inaugural class of Governor's STEM Schools," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "The knowledge and skills these children learn will benefit them throughout their lives no matter the careers they choose."
The STEM Council, together with OSIT, developed the official Governor's STEM School Designation based on national best practices to provide schools with a blueprint for integrating STEM into daily classroom instruction. Designation as a Governor's STEM School denotes that the school meets the highest standards of STEM instruction and is a model for schools around the state. For parents and the community, the designation also communicates the level of high-quality STEM education that can be expected at the school.
"The Governor's STEM Schools exemplify the core concept that STEM education is more than just the individual STEM subjects, but also how these subjects are taught and integrated with other subjects," said STEM Council Co-Chair Mark Newburn.
"In Nevada and across the nation, STEM jobs are growing faster than non-STEM jobs, and they pay nearly 50 percent more," said OSIT Director Brian Mitchell. "These schools are models for all of Nevada's schools in preparing students with the problem solving, critical thinking, and teamwork skills needed for careers in the new Nevada."
All K-12 schools in Nevada are eligible to apply for the designation. Schools submitted an application that described their curriculum practices, learning environment, STEM instruction and integration, leadership, and stakeholder engagement. Following a review of the applications, schools hosted a site visit by members of the STEM Council, OSIT, and other stakeholders to showcase their STEM practices. Designated schools will receive a 10-foot banner and a digital seal that can be used on a website and other electronic communications. Schools that applied, but did not receive the designation, will be paired with a STEM School for mentorship so that they can reapply for the designation in the future.
The mission of the Nevada STEM Advisory Council is to increase student interest and achievement in the fields of science, engineering, technology, and mathematics, leading students to rewarding careers in the New Nevada economy. The STEM Advisory Council is charged with identifying and awarding recognition to students and schools throughout Nevada that excel in STEM.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2017/Governor-Sandoval-Announces-8-Official-STEM-Schools/
