Public Statements
Governor Sandoval Reconvenes Nevada Gaming Policy Committee
Press Release
By: Brian Sandoval
Date: Jan. 15, 2016
Location: Carson City, NV

Governor Brian Sandoval today announced he has signed Executive Order 2016--01 formally reconvening the Nevada Gaming Policy Committee. The twelve member committee is created by Nevada Revised Statute 463.021 and consists of the Governor, who will serve as Chairman, select members of the state legislature, and other appointees including gaming regulators, restricted and non-restricted licensees, a tribal representative, and members of the general public.
"Nevada has always been the epicenter for global gaming entertainment, regulation, and innovation. The industry is constantly changing as more states and countries enter into this increasingly competitive field, and I believe the changes we are witnessing demand the attention of Nevada's policy leaders," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "I am reconvening the Gaming Policy Committee in order to bring these Nevada leaders together to address recent gaming challenges and opportunities, in full view of the international gaming community. There is no better place in the world to host this important conversation than Nevada, and I look forward to working with this Committee and its stakeholders to continue to set the pace and standards for global gaming industry."
Sandoval's order calls for the Gaming Policy Committee to take up issues related to the status of Nevada's interactive gaming agreement, innovative gaming devices, daily fantasy sports, skill-based games and other innovations in this evolving industry.
The Gaming Policy Committee was created in 1961 by then-Governor Grant Sawyer. Governor Sandoval reconvened the Committee in 2012 to provide recommendations on how Nevada can best regulate interactive gaming. Prior to Sandoval's action in 2012, the full group had not met since the 1980s. The objective of the Committee is to gather input from various constituencies, including the public, on gaming policy issues, for possible future consideration by Nevada's Gaming Control Board and Gaming Commission, as appropriate.
According to state law, the Governor may call meetings of the Gaming Policy Committee for the exclusive purpose of discussing gaming policy. Any recommendations concerning gaming policy made by the Committee are advisory. The Committee and its predecessor, the Gaming Policy Board, provide a forum for the Governor, the gaming regulators, the gaming industry and the public to discuss gaming policy in the State of Nevada.

Source: http://gov.nv.gov/News-and-Media/Press/2016/Governor-Sandoval-Reconvenes-Nevada-Gaming-Policy-Committee/
