Public Statements
Justice Signs Higher Education Reform Bill
Press Release
By: Jim Justice, Jr.
Date: April 25, 2017
Location: Charleston, WV

Today, Governor Jim Justice visited West Virginia University to sign House Bill 2815, legislation that will give greater freedom and flexibility to West Virginia University, including West Virginia University Potomac State College and West Virginia University Institute of Technology, Marshall University, and the West Virginia School of Osteopathic Medicine.
The reform legislation will give more autonomy to these institutions and realign the role of the Higher Education Policy Commission (HEPC). Justice was joined by WVU President Gordon Gee, Marshall University President Jerry Gilbert, and WVSOM President Dr. Michael Adelman for the bill signing. Gee, Gilbert, and Adelman voiced their strong support for the legislation.
"Our bigger schools need the freedom to continue to innovate and grow," said Governor Jim Justice. "As the campuses evolve it's clear that more decisions should be made by the boards of governors at WVU, Marshall, and the School of Osteopathic Medicine. This bill allows greater flexibility and allows HEPC to focus its efforts."
The bill preserves the HEPC to serve its core function as a coordinating body and to oversee and undertake regional and statewide higher education policy initiatives for the public good.
Gordon Gee, President of West Virginia University:
"We are very appreciative to the governor and the legislators for their leadership on this issue. This new governance structure will help us be nimble and innovative enough to overcome our state's challenges, and we look forward to working together as we continue to do great things."
Jerome A. Gilbert, President of Marshall University:
"I applaud the governor for signing this bill. This is good legislation that will give Marshall University more opportunities to reward exemplary employee performance and productivity. It also will allow us to do strategic financial planning, and will let us spend more time on programs and services for our students and less on bureaucratic reporting requirements.
"We appreciate the legislature and Governor Justice's support of this bill to support excellence in higher education in West Virginia."
Michael Adelman, D.O., D.P.M., J.D., President of WV School of Osteopathic Medicine:
"I truly appreciate the work of the Governor and the legislature during this past legislative session to provide the West Virginia School of Osteopathic Medicine, West Virginia University and Marshall University with more autonomy as state institutions during the state's difficult budget times. We are grateful for the leadership Governor Justice has taken with House Bill 2815 and the efficiency and flexibility this legislation gives to WVSOM as we continue to fulfill our mission by training well-educated osteopathic physicians to meet the health care needs of West Virginia."

Source: http://www.governor.wv.gov/News/press-releases/2017/Pages/Justice-Signs-Higher-Education-Reform-Bill-.aspx
