Public Statements
Letter to All State Employees - Laws, Regulations and Policies of the Governor's Office
Letter
By: Jim Justice, Jr.
Date: Jan. 30, 2017
Location: Charleston, WV

To All State Employees:
Since taking the oath of office as our state's 36th Governor, I've met so many dedicated state workers that take great pride in being hard-working public servants. The people of our great state need you to continue performing your duties to the best of your ability. I didn't run for Governor for me; I ran to help the people of West Virginia. I don't want a thing from this office. The last thing I want is a conflict of interest between my family's businesses and state government. Even the slightest whiff of a conflict won't fly with me.
I've separated myself from my business holdings by putting my children in charge of our family's business operations. Being Governor is a full-time responsibility. I want to put all of my assets in a blind trust, however, the process has been slowed down by the multitude of financial institutions that work with my family's companies. I will continue to file very detailed ethics reports, just like during the election, which lets everyone know about my family's businesses and investments.
Before I was elected, I employed 2,719 West Virginians. Shuttering all my companies is not an option; It would mean good people would lose their jobs and that just wouldn't be right. I want to grow jobs, not lose jobs.
I have always taught my children that we will never show nor accept favoritism, but rather achieve our goals through hard work and dedication. I assure you there is absolutely no expectation on behalf of the members of my family of receiving any special treatment.
I expect all laws, regulations and policies to be strictly adhered to and enforced with respect to any business associated with my family. Likewise, if you encounter anyone who in any way, shape or form, seeks any special consideration or favoritism by direct or implied communication, you should immediately provide that information to your immediate supervisor. I ask that you conduct yourself at all times in a manner that avoids even the appearance of impropriety. In doing so, you will have my full support regarding your professional efforts and my enduring appreciation for your dedication to our state.
Yours in service,
Jim Justice

Source: http://www.governor.wv.gov/News/press-releases/2017/Pages/A-Letter-to-State-Employees-from-Governor-Jim-Justice.aspx
