Public Statements
Justice Discusses Drug Epidemic With Social Workers
Press Release
By: Jim Justice, Jr.
Date: Aug. 30, 2016
Location: Charleston, WV

Today, the political action arm of the National Association of Social Workers West Virginia chapter endorsed businessman Jim Justice for governor. During a roundtable in Charleston, WV, Jim Justice discussed his ideas to combat West Virginia's drug epidemic and highlighted the important role social workers can play in communities across the state.
"Jim Justice is a leader who gets it; social workers are on the front lines fighting West Virginia's most pressing problems," said Diane Gaston, MSW, Chair of the NASW Action Committee. "We have proudly endorsed Jim Justice because he will listen to our solutions on addictions, access to mental health care, truancy, and more. His opponent, Bill Cole, voted for a budget that cut $30 million from behavioral health and state institutions; money that could have been used to expand addiction treatment programs."
NASW represents 500 social workers across West Virginia.
"The politicians never listen to the people who are in the trenches to solve problems-- they think they know everything," said businessman Jim Justice. "It's gotta be all hands on deck to fix this drug epidemic, and I'll be a governor who will partner with our social workers, drug counselors, and law enforcement officials to figure this out. Bill Cole had two years to fix this, and all he did was make it harder for West Virginians to get treatment with his budget cuts. The time for talking about this is over; we need to act."
Justice added,"I am honored to have the support of social workers from across the state. They must be part of transforming West Virginia."
Justice will fight West Virginia's drug epidemic by:
Creating More Addiction Treatment Centers. Jim Justice wants the Mountain State to be on the leading edge when it comes to treating drug addiction. He knows one size doesn't fit all. He will work with doctors, social workers, and other addiction specialists to establish a comprehensive roadmap of care for those suffering from addiction.
He'll restore the irresponsible cuts Bill Cole made to West Virginia's drug treatment programs, and create more treatment centers.
There are not enough beds available to treat drug abuse problems in West Virginia, and Jim will fix that. He will bring drug companies to the table and work with them to secure private investments to establish drug treatment facilities in our state. Jim understands that drug companies must play a role in battling the opioid crisis.
Youth Jobs Initiative. As governor, Jim will utilize existing federal workforce development monies to incentivize counties who are interested in starting a jobs program for high school students. It will keep our kids out of trouble, teach responsibility, instill a good work ethic, and allow the next generation to learn some real-world skills. Jim will work with the private sector to encourage companies to mentor young West Virginians to break the cycle of hopelessness from an early age. Jim understands that when people have a job and can see a future for themselves, they are less likely to abuse drugs.
Ending The Over-Prescribing Of Opioids. As governor, Jim Justice will bring experts to the table to find solutions to stem the overflow of prescription painkillers. Limiting access to addictive painkillers and promoting evidence-based alternative pain treatment therapies, such as exercise and stress-reduction are good first steps to stopping West Virginians from getting hooked in the first place.
Stopping Out-Of-State Drug Dealers. Jim will work closely with law enforcement to crack down on the supply of illegal drugs coming into West Virginia and crippling our communities. West Virginia cannot win the battle against addiction until we stop drugs from entering the state. He wants WV to use the most advanced policing tactics to put drug kingpins behind bars.
Expanding Drug Courts. Jim will be compassionate, but firm with those addicted to drugs by offering them support services if they turn over their drugs to authorities in exchange for help and agree to monitored sobriety. Justice supports the expansion of drug courts, and will work with local communities to help those who desperately want to make a positive change.
Adding Treatment Programs to Regional Jails. Huntington Mayor Steve Williams has proposed the concept of adding treatment programs to West Virginia's regional jails. Many inmates in our regional jails struggle with addiction, if they want medical assisted treatment and counseling it should be available so they can get clean and stay clean when they are released. It's a low-cost idea that Jim will explore as governor.
As governor, Jim will collaborate with Social Workers, and drug and alcohol counselors to turn the state around by:
Reducing Truancy In Our Schools. Jim wants to help school districts employ social workers to resolve attendance issues. Social workers can help give West Virginia kids a better shot to succeed by improving attendance rates in our schools.
Addressing Mental Health. Jim Justice will work with social workers and other experts to formulate a strategy to improve treatment for mental illness in our communities. The earlier we identify and treat mental and emotional disorders, the better the chance people can live productive lives. Jim wants to make sure that West Virginia is better prepared to help our veterans adjust to civilian life. West Virginia has the 10th highest suicide rate in the United States, and Jim wants to identify strategies to lower it. It's wrong that our state does not have enough beds or community resources to accommodate everyone seeking treatment for mental illness; Jim will worked to correct this.
Helping Our Children Before It's Too Late. West Virginia lacks adequate funding for community-based and early-intervention programs that can stop kids from going down the wrong path. As a coach, Jim understands that how important it is for communities to support youth development. He feels that social workers can play a larger role in engaging our youth and help them steer clear of drugs and alcohol. He will work to increase the number of in-patient and community-based options for adolescents.
Recruiting More Social Workers. Jim wants to reward WV school social workers and lure nationally-certified school social workers to West Virginia by giving them better benefits. He will work to recruit and train more social workers to help combat West Virginia's drug epidemic, and find ways to encourage students to enter the profession.

Source: http://justiceforwv.com/justice-discusses-drug-epidemic-with-social-workers/
