Public Statements
Bill Cole Caught Lying In New TV Ad
Press Release
By: Jim Justice, Jr.
Date: July 21, 2016
Location: Charleston, WV

Today, businessman Jim Justice released the following statement on Senator Bill Cole's false attacks:
"It's pathetic, but the fact is Bill Cole is just a typical politician who will flat out lie to help himself. He's saying that I supported Obama; that's complete dog snot!
"Why in the world would I ever contribute to Obama when he's taken millions of dollars away from my family's coal business and the hardworking coal miners of West Virginia? His crazy EPA regulations have devastated the coal industry.
"If anything, Cole's car lots directly benefited from Obama's $3 billion "Cash for Clunkers' program."
Here are the facts about Bill Cole's lies:
1. COLE'S CLAIM: Jim Justice and his family gave money to Barack Obama re-election campaign.
THE FACTS: In 2011, Justice and his family gave money to the DNC to support off-year gubernatorial candidates.
National Journal:
"Justice has donated to the Democratic National Committee, not Obama, and the money was earmarked for a gubernatorial race in Kentucky." [January 6, 2016]
Courier-Journal:
"Later in 2011 the four Justices gave $121,600 to the Democratic National Committee at a time when the DNC was transferring large amounts to the Kentucky Democratic Party during Beshear's 2011 re-election campaign." [July 30, 2014]
NOTE: Jim Justice voted for John McCain in 2008 and Mitt Romney in 2012.
2. COLE'S CLAIM: Justice gave money to the DNC "after" Clinton said she would put coal miners out of work.
THE FACTS: The 2011 contribution to the DNC was before Hillary Clinton's coal comments in 2016. It's factually inaccurate to say Justice gave money AFTER Clinton's comments.
3. COLE'S CLAIM: Jim Justice said he is "united" with Hillary Clinton.
THE FACTS: Justice never said that. He was clearly talking about moving forward with all the people of WV after the primary for governor.
Justice Speech to the WV Democratic Convention
Now, we've been through a Primary. We had two great men, other than myself, Jeff Kessler and Booth Goodwin. Now we come together. And we move on in the right way. Now I hope this. I hope this side over here is not fighting against this side over here because they got more people over here. [laughter] No, I'm just teasing. Ya know, I do mean this, Walt Helmick just told you this. You will hear it and hear it. There is no place for us to You know we can bicker and we can argue but, at the end of the day, you surely got to be united. [ June 11, 2016]
NOTE: Cole's campaign has no citation for the quote because they pulled it out of thin air. Cole's ad, in amateur fashion, merely shows Jim's picture superimposed next to Obama and Clinton. In fact, he's never met either of them.
BACKGROUND ON CASH FOR CLUNKERS:
On 8/23/09 the Register-Herald noted that Cole Automotive Group's customers received between $3,500 and $4,500 vouchers for trading in their used clinkers for a fuel-efficient new car.
Cole Auto Group Accepted Cash for Clunker Deals Longer than Other Dealerships
According to the Register-Herald, Cole Automotive Group relied on Cash for Clunkers longer than other area car dealers.
On 8/23/09, the Register-Herald reported, "Most area dealerships closed their doors earlier this week to Cash for Clunkers customers, but Cole Automotive Group in Bluefield hopes to close a few more deals before the program officially comes to an end at 8 p.m. Monday." [Register-Herald, 8/23/09]
According to a Texas A&M University study, the Cash for Clunkers was a failure
Fox News reported that, "The Texas A&M University study, for the National Bureau of Economic Research, shows the program may have actually created a drag on the economy." [Fox News, 8/11/14]
"Congress originally appropriated $1 billion to the program but was forced to add another $2 billion when the program ran out of money a month after it started and two months sooner than the government expected." [Fox News, 8/11/14]
Cash for Clunkers cost taxpayers $3 billion
According the Harvard Business Review the total cost of the Obama program was $3 billion. [HBR.com, 8/21/2009]

Source: http://justiceforwv.com/bill-cole-caught-lying-in-new-tv-ad/
