Public Statements
Cole Owes West Virginians An Apology
Press Release
By: Jim Justice, Jr.
Date: June 17, 2016
Location: Charleston, WV

It's bad enough that Senate President Bill Cole will not support Jim Justice's plan to limit lawmaker pay to five days during a special session on the budget, but now Cole was caught not telling the truth about how much he gets paid while the Legislature is in session. The special session cost WV taxpayers nearly $600,000.
Cole got paid an additional $5,100 (plus expenses) during the 17-day special session and doesn't want voters to know it.
On the WV MetroNews radio show TalkLine, Cole stated that his paycheck doesn't change regardless of how long the legislature stays in special session.
"We get paid $20,000 a year whether we're in special session for 300 days or two days," he said. "The salary doesn't change; now, granted, we get per diems, but that pays for your motel bill and your food presumably." [WV MetroNews, 6.15.16]

TOTALLY FALSE! Cole's paycheck as Senate President grows every day the legislature is in session. See section ยง4-2A- 4 of the West Virginia state code.

All members of the House and Senate get an extra $150.00 per day for regular, extended or special sessions.

The Senate President and Speaker of the House make an additional $150.00 per day ($300 total) as presiding officers.

DO THE MATH:
During the 17-day special session, Cole made $300 each day.
That's an extra $5,100 in pay, plus travel expenses.

Cole owes an apology for trying to mislead the public about how much he really makes.

"You would think Bill Cole would know what the citizens of West Virginia are paying him," said House Minority Whip Mike Caputo. "It's downright disingenuous and wrong for Senate President Cole to tell the public that he doesn't receive extra pay for special session. Cole's opposition to capping lawmaker pay shows he is out of touch with working families. He should issue an apology to West Virginians. People can have their opinion about whether legislators get paid too much or too little, but lawmakers should be honest about what they are making."

Source: http://justiceforwv.com/cole-owes-west-virginians-an-apology/
