Public Statements
The Herald Dispatch - W.Va. Governor candidate: Jim Justice (D)
Interview
By: Jim Justice, Jr.
Date: April 3, 2016
Location: Charleston, WV

By Unknown
NAME: Jim Justice
CANDIDATE FOR: W.Va. Governor
COUNTY: Greenbrier
PARTY: Democrat
CAMPAIGN WEBSITE: http://justiceforwv.com/
BIOGRAPHY: Jim Justice is the owner of The Greenbrier and runs 83 different companies. Jim has created jobs in coal, agriculture, medicine, and tourism. He coaches boys and girls basketball at Greenbrier East High School. Jim earned his undergraduate degree and a masters in business administration from Marshall. He and his wife Cathy, have two adult children, Jay and Jill.
QUESTION 1. What would you do as governor to address our state's epidemic of drug abuse?
When people are hopeless and can't work, they turn to drugs. Creating more opportunities for people to work is the first step to stopping the drug epidemic. I will crack down on drug dealers who come into our state and poison our people. We need to provide more treatment options for the folks suffering from addiction.
QUESTION 2. Considering that many counties in West Virginia cannot fill teaching positions with qualified teachers, what would you do to attract qualified teachers to West Virginia?
I trust our teachers; and I will get the politicians out of their way. We cannot cut our way to better schools; we need to grow the pie by creating new jobs. I want West Virginia to be an education powerhouse so we can attract the best teachers. We must pay our teachers what they're worth.
QUESTION 3. What measures would you favor that increase state revenue and/or cut specific programs to resolve the state's continuing budget shortfalls?
The lack of jobs is the cause of our budget crisis. The politicians are failing because they have no clue how to market our state or create jobs. I've created thousands of jobs in the coal business, agriculture, medicine, and tourism. More jobs will solve the financial mess created by the politicians. We should not be raising taxes on people.

Source: http://www.herald-dispatch.com/elections/wv_candidates/w-va-governor-candidate-jim-justice-d/article_3ae55eac-f9f8-11e5-a8ba-3bc31f347950.html
