Public Statements
Greenbrier Employees Endorse Justice
Press Release
By: Jim Justice, Jr.
Date: March 22, 2016
Location: Charleston, WV

Today, members of the largest employee union at The Greenbrier, Local 863--Workers United, have come together to endorse Jim Justice for governor. The dedicated men and women who helped Jim Justice rescue The Greenbrier know he is the best choice for West Virginia's working families.
The people who know Jim the best and work side-by-side with him at the resort are strongly supporting his campaign for governor. The United Mine Workers have also endorsed Justice because he has worked with them for many years in the coal business.
"I'd wrestle a bear for anyone of my employees, and I know they would do the same for me," said businessman Jim Justice. "My employees are family, and we've done incredible things together at The Greenbrier and in the coal business. Our people are the best, and having the support of the folks you work with every day truly means a lot."
"His outside-the-box thinking, and never ending pursuit to bring new business and jobs to The Greenbrier continue to keep us in the game," stated Maynard Campbell, President of Local 863 and Bellman at The Greenbrier.
"Who would have thought 7 years ago, that the Greenbrier would be a regular stop for the PGA Tour, the host of a NFL team's training camp, the host of a NBA team's training camp, hosting world-class concerts? All of these great events bring real job opportunities to our community. Each one generates business for local restaurants, hotels, stores and merchants. Each one generates tax revenue that helps our local schools and cities. Each one would not exist if it wasn't for Jim Justice," stated Peter Bostic, Associate Director, Mid-Atlantic Regional Joint Board, Workers United.
In 2009, The Greenbrier was in bankruptcy and the dedicated staff was facing deep cuts in jobs and benefits. Jim saw an opportunity, purchased resort and immediately reversed the benefit cuts and invested in renovations and expansions. He turned around The Greenbrier, creating hundreds of new jobs by bringing in major events like The Greenbrier Classic, the New Orleans Saints training camp, NBA training camp, and numerous high-profile acts and conferences.

Source: http://justiceforwv.com/greenbrier-employees-endorse-justice/
