Public Statements
Jim Justice: End Free Lunch For Politicians
Press Release
By: Jim Justice, Jr.
Date: March 1, 2016
Location: Charleston, WV

Today, businessman Jim Justice proposed several ethics reform measures aimed at ending politics as usual in Charleston. West Virginia's professional politicians have bent over backwards to protect their cozy relationship with special interests and advance their personal agenda, and Jim Justice wants to put a stop to that.
"There is no such thing as a free lunch-- unless you're a career politician being wined and dined by special interest lobbyists," said Jim Justice. "All I want is greatness for our state and to put people back to work, but the special interests and the politicians they control are holding us back. We must stop the gravy train for politicians in this state. I don't need anyone to buy me dinner."
Jim Will End the Free Lunch for Politicians By:
Banning all fundraising activity during the regular legislative session for all state government officials. No elected official at the state level will be able to accept contributions during the legislative session or solicit political donations of any kind. Many states, including Maryland and Virginia, impose fundraising restrictions during legislative sessions.

Capping lobbyist meals for lawmakers at $75 per meal, and limiting the number of meals to four every year. No more than $300 can be spent annually by lobbyists trying to curry favor with state lawmakers.

Mandating that all legislators request an employment exemption from the West Virginia Ethics Commission, when seeking private-sector employment. It will establish a publicly available record of when members of the House and Senate are seeking outside jobs.

Requiring more transparency from "dark money" groups who try to influence West Virginia elections. Increasing disclosure will stop "dark money" organizations from playing shell games to conceal exactly where the money is coming from to pay for political advertising. West Virginians deserve to know who is spending money on our elections.

Justice added, "Too many politicians are bought and paid for by powerful special interests. It's one of the reasons nothing gets done. I can never be bought. The politicians need to wake up and realize that they work for the people of West Virginia-- not lobbyists or out-of-state donors."

Jim Justice doesn't believe that lawmakers should ever use their office for personal financial gain or get special perks because of their service. He wants West Virginia politicians to do the job they were elected to do, and focus on putting people to work.

Source: http://justiceforwv.com/ethics/
