Public Statements
Issue Position: Drug Abuse
Issue Position
By: Jim Justice, Jr.
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

Jim wants to take the fight directly to the drug dealers, while simultaneously offering West Virginians suffering from addiction the help they need. He believes in a three-pronged attack: go after the drug runners, offer addicts a way out, and create jobs to solve the core problem.
"Any out-of-state or foreign criminal who comes to West Virginia to sell drugs had better plan on a long stay in one of our prisons, because I will not tolerate it. The politicians have allowed gang bangers to run wild; I'll make the drug dealers wish they had never set foot in this state." -- Jim Justice
As governor, Jim will:
Stop the flow of out-of-state drug dealers that are poisoning our people. Jim will work with law enforcement to crack down on the supply of illegal drugs coming into West Virginia and crippling our communities. West Virginia cannot win the battle against addiction until we stop drugs from entering the state.
Provide treatment to West Virginians suffering from addiction. Jim will support increased access to drug and alcohol treatment programs for people who need them. He'll be compassionate, but firm with those addicted to drugs by offering them support services if they turn over their drugs to authorities in exchange for help and agree to monitored sobriety. Justice supports the expansion of drug courts, and will work with local communities to help those who desperately want to make a change.
Break the cycle of hopelessness by creating jobs. Jim Justice knows that it all starts with a job and that the best way to end West Virginia's drug epidemic is to put our people back to work. Currently, too many jobs cannot be filled because applicants are unable to pass a drug test-- that needs to stop. Jim understands that when people have a job and can see a future for themselves, they are less likely to abuse drugs.

Source: http://justiceforwv.com/drug-abuse/
