Public Statements
Issue Position: Jim's Jobs Vision
Issue Position
By: Jim Justice, Jr.
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

Close your eyes and imagine! A place was created and the people called it West Virginia. It was blessed with abundant natural resources -- coal, gas, oil, timber, and water. It was graced with four spectacular seasons. It would be positioned within 600 miles of two-thirds of the entire United States population. Its biggest blessing is its people -- West Virginians, who are faith based, true craftsmen, family-oriented, hard-working, law-abiding, good, loving people who know the difference between right and wrong. Why? How? With all this, how can we be 50th? I have successfully created thousands of jobs. Here's my vision for bringing jobs to our state:
DON'T GIVE UP ON OUR ENERGY SECTOR
Promote new uses for coal. Find chemical and mineral advantages for central Appalachian coal. Then market that strength.
Cultivate new markets for our natural gas.
Rekindle a better marketing strategy for our quality metallurgical coal to the world.
Incentivize our power plants to use only West Virginia coal.
TAKE TOURISM TO NEW HEIGHTS
Think big!
Promote our state to a much bigger, broader audience.
Attract the next Dollywood or Disney type resort.
MAKE WEST VIRGINIA KNOWN FOR AGRICULTURE
Find our niche crop. Why can't we have the next Vidalia onion or Idaho potato?
Become a major distribution center of fresh agricultural products to the Northeast.
Utilize abandoned mine lands.
Promote our agricultural products as "Almost Heaven"; this will greatly aid our image.
A MARKETER-IN-CHIEF
Use our universities to identify specific job opportunities.
Fix West Virginia's Image -- we're Wild & Wonderful, but the outside world doesn't know it.
Think of education differently. Promote our education system so that it becomes an economic engine, improves our image, and attracts people and businesses to our state -- creating opportunity for all of us.
I will personally recruit businesses and capital to West Virginia like none other.
THE BOTTOM LINE
Our state is dying. We have a massive budget deficit. We cannot cut our way to prosperity. We cannot continue to be the world's best-kept secret and starve. You need a governor that can market us to the world. I can! We have to grow revenue through job creation. We must pay our people better, fix our schools, repair our roads, and give our families hope. I can do all this; just look at what I've done at The Greenbrier, in coal, in medicine, and in agriculture. People said that it wasn't possible to save The Greenbrier, to bring the PGA tour to West Virginia, or to bring NFL teams to the state. I said, "Why Not West Virginia!"
Stay in touch with our campaign. I'll be rolling out more ideas to achieve my vision for our great state.
Jim Justice

Source: http://justiceforwv.com/jims-jobs-vision/
