Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces Grants to Grow Businesses, Create 46 New Jobs Across Montana
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock announced today $459,638 in grants to help businesses in eleven Montana communities create 46 new jobs and plan for future expansions.
"Montana's economy is strong and we are seeing great opportunities for businesses to grow and expand all across the state," said Governor Bullock. "Continued investments into our growing economy open the door for businesses in communities across Montana to create more jobs and take our economy to new heights."
The funds are being awarded through the Big Sky Economic Development Trust Fund (BSTF) and Primary Sector Workforce Training Grant (WTG) programs.
Great Falls is one of the 11 communities where BSTF funds are growing the economy through area businesses.
With an $112,500 grant awarded through Cascade County, Anderson Steel Supply, Inc. will be able to upgrade its equipment to increase production capacity by 65 percent, which will create 15 new high paid jobs. Anderson Steel fabricates complex structural steel and heavy built-up steel components for the non-residential construction industry.
"At Anderson Steel, we have a vision to build a sustainable long-term business for years to come," said Vice President of Operations Bob Reiman. "The Big Sky Trust Fund grant allowed us to compete in a global market rather than just a local market through purchasing advanced metal fabrication technology."
Reiman said the company's expansion would have a ripple effect into the economy.
"This grant not only benefits Anderson Steel but also benefits many other businesses that we directly deal with, not to mention where our new employees spend their money. Thanks to the State of Montana's public-private partnership, we can help keep Montana's economy growing."
Full List of Grant Recipients:
Big Sky Economic Development Trust Fund (BSTF) -- Job Creation
Flathead County Economic Development Authority received $30,000 of BSTF funds to assist Old Town Creative Communications, LLC to expand, which will allow the company to create 6 new jobs in Whitefish. The BSTF funds will be used for equipment purchases. Old Town Creative Communications, which is located in Whitefish, specializes in advanced digital development with a particular expertise in developing and deploying products and services that involve interactive mapping.
Missoula County received $112,500 of BSTF funds to assist Advanced Technology Group, Inc. to expand, which will allow the company to create 15 new jobs for Missoula County. The BSTF funds will be used to purchase equipment, furniture and software. Advanced Technology Group, which is located in Missoula, is an information technology consulting business that helps clients develop strategies, implement IT solutions and streamline business processes.
Butte-Silver Bow County received $75,000 of BSTF funds to assist MarCom, LLC to expand, which will allow the company to create 10 new jobs for Butte-Silver Bow County. The BSTF funds will be used to purchase equipment, machinery and software. MarCom, LLC, which is located in Butte, provides professional engineering, nuclear-operations, IT, SCADA and health/safety services to federal and commercial customers.
Big Sky Economic Development Trust Fund (BSTF) -- Planning
Kootenai River Development of Libby received $8,250 to assist Lincoln County with the development of a master concept plan to guide the future use, management, conservation and enhancement of non-motorized recreation facilities in the greater Libby area. The plan would assist the community in developing its trail-based economic development and recreational strategies and to assist with the necessary diversification of its economy.
Kootenai River Development of Libby received $5,750 to assist the Heritage Museum with developing a strategic plan to determine the feasibility of moving the 1906 Shay No. 4 locomotive toward an operating exhibit.
Snowy Mountain Development Corporation of Lewistown received $21,600 to assist the City of Lewistown in creating a redevelopment plan for a Brownfield project. The redevelopment plan will consider the highest and most beneficial use for the 22-acre former lumber mill.
Snowy Mountain Development Corporation received $11,880 to assist Roundup School District with a feasibility study that will identify the highest and best re-use of the Central School building while meeting the community's economic needs. This fall, elementary students will be attending a new school, leaving the historic sandstone building vacant.
Montana Business Assistance Connection received $5,750 to assist Montana Internet Corporation to hire a contractor to provide a design plan for extending wireless and fiber service to Townsend. Montana Internet Corporation is a local internet service provider that services Helena and the surrounding area.
Bitter Root Economic Development District, Inc. received $15,208 to assist Synema Studios, LLC with a feasibility study for a new studio space in Missoula. Synema Studios, LLC is a service-based producer of online media and other video content.
Lake County Community Development received $12,600 to assist the Mission Mountain Food Enterprise Center (MMFEC) with an expansion plan to meet the increased demand by clients and co-packing services and to include a financial analysis to ensure the expansion is financially sound. MMFEC is one of the four Montana Department of Agriculture Food and Agriculture Development Centers and is a unique resource to the state through a full inspected (USDA, FDA) processing facility.
Beartooth RC&D Area, Inc. received $21,600 to assist Aluutaalaahu Many Arrows Community Development Corporation with a feasibility study and site assessment of four potential sites for a convenience store and attached commercial kitchen in Pryor.
The Blackfeet Tribe received $27,000 to assist Blackfeet Tribal Health with a preliminary architecture report for the facilities to be used by the Blackfeet Honor Your Life programs located in Browning.
More funding opportunities are still available. The deadline for submitting an application for consideration at the next Grant/Loan Review Committee meeting is June 30. For more information, contact Section Manager Annmarie Robinson by phone at 406.841.2250 or by visiting www.bstf.mt.gov.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/4191
