Public Statements
Governor Bullock on U.S. District Court Ruling: Montanans, Not Big Money, Must Decide Elections
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: May 18, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Montana Governor Steve Bullock issued the following statement after U.S. District Judge Charles Lovell's controversial ruling on Montana's campaign finance contribution limits:
"Montana elections should be decided by "we the people.' This ruling is a travesty and a step back towards the era of the Copper Kings," said Gov. Bullock. "Allowing our elections to be bought and paid for by people with unlimited wealth is bad for the integrity of our elections and for our democracy."
In 2012, Governor Bullock, then Attorney General, immediately filed a request for a stay and then filed an appeal to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals after a similar ruling, defending Montana's campaign finance limits and fighting to keep unlimited spending out of Montana elections. He is calling on the Attorney General's Office to do the same.
As Attorney General, Bullock led the effort to preserve Montana's 100-year-old Corrupt Practices Act, taking the case for the state's citizen democracy all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court. His office defended Montana's campaign finance limits and disclosure laws against a wave of lawsuits filed by American Tradition Partnership and other dark money groups.
Governor Bullock has been called "the biggest threat to Citizens United," and remains committed to ensuring Montana's elections are the most transparent in the nation.
Last year Governor Bullock worked with a bipartisan group of lawmakers to pass the Disclose Act to require the disclosure of all donors to any independent group spending money on state-level elections. Republican Senator Duane Ankney sponsored the bill.
Montana has since received an "A" rating on the 2016 national scorecard for disclosure practices governing direct contributions to state candidates, state political parties, and committees that support or oppose any kind of statewide ballet question from followthemoney.org.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/4114
