Public Statements
Governor Bullock: Leading to Prepare a Responsible Future for Montana
Statement
By: Steve Bullock
Date: March 31, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Montanans are proud of our contribution to the economic health of our region and the nation. The production and export of low-cost energy provides good-paying jobs for Montana workers. We are fortunate to have some of the nation's largest coal reserves, highest-rated wind potential, and hydroelectric power. Producing energy is part of who we are as a state.
Coal production in Montana has been higher under my administration than any previous administration in our state's history, helping hard-working Montana families make a living in the Big Sky State. While I'm proud of that fact, there are challenges on the horizon. The bankruptcy of Arch Coal sent tremors through the industry. Global coal markets are struggling, domestic energy demand is flat, cheap natural gas is reshaping our economy, and ratepayers across the Pacific Northwest are demanding renewable energy.
And then there are the concerns related to climate change. We know it is happening because we see it. Moreover, the financial markets are reacting.
We can sit around and try to score political points by assigning blame, or we can take the lead in preparing a responsible future for Montana -- one that sparks a new generation of clean technology businesses, drives economic growth and creates thousands of good-paying jobs in Montana by modernizing power plants, moving us to more renewable energy, and encouraging innovation and energy efficiency.
You often hear a false choice -- that we can either address climate change or continue to produce power from coal -- but not both. I reject this choice.
Some might dismiss the debate over our energy future as just more election year fodder. But here's why we can't do that: time. While people argue and point fingers, the world moves forward. The only constant here is a changing market, and as the saying goes, you're either driving the bus, or you're under it.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/3481
