Public Statements
Montana's Unemployment Rate at 4.1 Percent in January
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: March 14, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Montana's unemployment rate was unchanged in January, remaining at 4.1%. Montana's unemployment rate continues to hover around 4.0% as it did for most of 2015. The U.S. unemployment rate fell 0.1% over the month to 4.9%.
"Today's economic news is another sign that Montana's economy is among the strongest in the nation," said Governor Bullock. "As our economy grows at a fast rate, we continue to work to ensure Montana's wage growth remains high and that we are finding new ways to prepare our workforce for our state's growing industries."
"Our economy continues to add jobs, with payroll employment growing in January," said Labor & Industry Commissioner Pam Bucy. "We continue to work hard to ensure that our training programs prepare workers for the workplace and that businesses have the labor force pipeline they need to prosper."
Payroll employment showed positive gains in January, adding around 1,300 jobs. Payroll job gains were most notable in retail trade, construction and manufacturing. Total employment estimates, which include agricultural and self-employed workers along with payroll workers, indicated a statistically insignificant gain of 68 jobs. Employment growth over the past year remains near the long term average of about 1%, with 5,166 jobs added for a growth rate of 1.1%.
The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) was unchanged in January. Energy prices fell 2.8% over the month, while the index for all items less food and energy rose to offset the decline in energy prices.
** Statewide unemployment figures are seasonally-adjusted. Seasonally-adjusted numbers remove the effects of events that follow a more or less regular month-to-month pattern each year. These adjustments make nonseasonal patterns easier to identify. The margin of error for the unemployment rate is plus or minus 0.5 percentage points at the 90 percent confidence level. All questions relating to the calculation of unemployment rates should be directed to the Montana Department of Labor and Industry's Research and Analysis Bureau at 1-800-541-3904.

Source:
