Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces $490,000 to Avitus Group in Billings to Create Jobs and Strengthen our Economy
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: March 9, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock today announced $490,000 in grants awarded to Billings-based Avitus Group to facilitate a major business expansion that will result in 58 new jobs and train an additional 88 jobs.
"Montana's economy is continuing to grow, and it's important we don't take our foot off the gas," said Governor Bullock. "I am pleased that the state can work together with private industry in creating opportunities for job growth. Avitus Group drives small business growth in Billings and throughout Montana, helping to create more opportunities for workers and to build a stronger and more competitive economy."
The grants are being made available through the Big Sky Economic Development Trust Fund (BSTF) and the Primary Sector Workforce Training Grant (WTG) programs. Avitus Group will receive $290,000 from the BSTF program and $200,000 from the WTG program.
Avitus Group was founded in Billings in 1996 and has since grown into a worldwide company that simplifies, strengthens, and grows businesses by providing "back office" support (payroll, accounting, taxes, recruiting, and information technology).
"We're making an investment in Montana. It makes business sense for our company. Montana has some of the hardest working, most skilled employees, and I'm honored to get to work with 155 of them each day in Billings," said Avitus, Inc. President Don Reile.
"Avitus Group is growing at a rapid pace. We're confident we'll hire more than 80 employees in the next two years in our Billings Operations Center. We made a commitment to this community and state back in 1996 when we founded our company in Billings. Today, 20 years later, we're here to stay, and very excited to announce our plans to hire additional staff," said Ken Balster, President of Avitus Payroll Services and Avitus Business Services.
About the Big Sky Economic Development Trust Fund Program:
The BSTF Program provides state funds to promote long-term stable economic growth in Montana. More information can be found at www.bstf.mt.gov.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/3386
