Public Statements
Billings-based Avitus Group receives $490K worker training grant, congrats from Bullock
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: March 9, 2016
Location: Billings, MT

Avitus Group, a fast-growing Billings firm that ranks among the state's top 10 largest employers, has secured $490,000 in state funding that will help the company hire and train up to 80 new employees over the next two years.
Gov. Steve Bullock joined local and state officials Wednesday to congratulate Avitus Group for winning grants offered through the Big Sky Economic Development Trust Fund Job Creation Program and the State of Montana Primary Sector Workforce Training Grant.
"Avitus Group's expansion not only speaks well about what's happening in Billings but what's happening across our state," Bullock said.
Bullock said he last visited Avitus Group's office in the Wells Fargo building about 18 months ago and that he's impressed with how much the company has grown since then.
"It would have been so easy for you all to kick your feet up and say we're doing well," Bullock said. "Just as Avitus Group doesn't say good is good enough, just as Big Sky EDA doesn't say good is good enough, we at the state level aren't saying it's time to kick our feet up. Here in Montana, when things are going well, we say, "How can we do better?'"
Meg O'Leary, director of the Montana Department of Commerce, said she was pleased that Avitus Group has filled empty desks with employees since her last visit.
"We know utilization is the name of the game," O'Leary said. "We know you're doing a lot of things to help the Montana economy," she said, inviting Avitus Group to apply for additional money when the grant is spent.
"This will be used to help us enhance our service delivery to all the small businesses that we serve within the state of Montana," said Don Reile, president of Avitus Group.
Reile credited the company's employees for helping Avitus Group deal with exponential growth.
"We've hired some wonderful employees, and we're going to continue that growth pattern," he said.
Reile said Avitus Group had about nine employees when he joined the company nearly 20 years ago. Today, Avitus Group has 260 direct employees located at its operations center in Billings and several offices around the country.
But the company ranks as a top 10 Montana employer because it handles payroll, workplace safety, human resources and other employment-related services for about 3,500 Montana workers.
Avitus Group is quickly becoming a major player in the co-employment industry, Reile said.
In such an arrangement, workers are technically employed by two separate entities. The business owner controls employees' daily duties and core job functions, while the co-employer like Avitus Group handles the back office tasks. As a result, business owners can concentrate on core business functions, while Avitus Group handles other tasks.
"This is an exciting company that's really growing," said Steve Arveschoug, executive director of Big Sky Economic Development, Yellowstone County's economic development agency. "Avitus Group is a Montana and Billings success story. They do great work in Montana and are spreading out regionally, nationally and internationally. We're a business-friendly center in this region, and we hope you can carry that flag as you continue to grow."
Officials from Big Sky ED assisted Avitus Group in applying for the competitive work force training grant.
Avitus Group's Billings operations center occupies 32,000 square feet of space on four floors in the Wells Fargo building. The company plans to add additional space.

Source: http://billingsgazette.com/news/local/billings-based-avitus-group-receives-k-worker-training-grant-congrats/article_f10254e3-dd71-57b3-bf26-ab8c138b2654.html
