Public Statements
Bullock touts small businesses and economic opportunities
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: March 4, 2016
Location: Great Falls, MT

Four days after officially filing to retain his seat, Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, a Democrat, was in Great Falls on Friday to tout small business development and one local business.
"It's a pretty exciting time in Montana," Bullock said at Electric City Coffee on Friday afternoon.
Bullock said Montana created more than 10,000 jobs in 2015 and the unemployment rate of 4 percent remains well below the national average. There are plenty of people in Great Falls and across the state who are seeking opportunities to get into business, which is why his office of economic development created the Montana Business Navigator website, which launched in January.
"Entrepreneurs and small business owners needed an easier way to access resources," Bullock said.
Already, Bullock said, more than 6,000 individuals have visited the site and more than 250 have accessed the "one stop shop" checklist of items needed to start up a small business.
When Thad and Heidi Reiste opened Electric City Coffee a little more than a year ago, the owners said they did so with the assistance of the Small Business Development Center that is a part of the Great Falls Development Authority. The SBDC helped the Reistes develop a business plan, locate a place to house their business and a lot more. They purchased what was The Daily Grind coffee shop but said they reached out for help before they got in too deep.
"The Small Business Development Center, they said, "Let's do this right,'" Thad Reiste said.
The result, Heidi Reiste said, has been a remarkable dream come true for the retired military couple and their family.
"This has become an amazing success and it keeps growing," she said.
Bullock said the website offers everything from resources to develop a business plan, links to access the proper state and federal permits, a checklist and more.
"It's businesses like this that are the backbone of Montana," he said.
Jolene Bach, vice president for business development with the Great Falls Development Authority, said their organization fields hundreds of business ideas every year. Some of the ideas are well organized, like the Reistes, while others are just in the dream stages. In the end, Bach said, they typically work with 50 small businesses per year on developing their ideas. All of the consultation is done free of charge and Bach said the services are available for existing businesses as well looking to make changes.

Source: http://www.greatfallstribune.com/story/news/local/2016/03/04/bullock-touts-small-businesses-economic-opportunities/81343710/
