Public Statements
Bullock Files To Run For Re-Election
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Feb. 29, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Gov. Steve Bullock filed Monday to run for re-election with his family and lieutenant governor looking on.
"No. 1 is to keep doing the things we're doing. More people are working in the state of Montana than any other time in our state's history, personal income growth is sixth highest in the country, maintaining being the most fiscally prudent state in the country," he said.
The Democratic incumbent is expected to face off against Republican Greg Gianforte, a Bozeman-based entrepreneur and founder of RightNow Technologies in the Nov. 8 general election.
"There's a fundamental difference of values and viewpoint about what the office of governor is between Greg Gianforte and I," Bullock said. "I'm glad he's a guy who made his $10 million and bring it here and make 100s of millions more, that reflects what Montana is."
Gianforte has noted that Montana ranks 49th in wages and has made higher-wage jobs a mainstay of his campaign.
Bullock said his administration is "ensuring that incomes are raising." he said adding employers in Bozeman recently told him they were offering competitive salaries to lure in employees.
He said Gianforte would gut the tax system, and get rid of the state's "rainy day" fund.
"We have seen that model, we've seen it replicated through many states now," he said.
Gianforte put out a news release shortly after Bullock announced his re-election. He has not officially filed to run. That deadline is March 14.
"Aside from being at the bottom of the nation in wages, we are entering even more challenging times. Grain prices are down. Miners, railroaders, timber community families, and the Bakken have seen some painful layoffs, and there are more threats on the horizon," he stated. "It's time for new leadership. Montanans are looking for a high wage job creator who can bring business experience to Helena."
Jim Larson, chair of the Montana Democratic Party, touched on Bullock's fiscal management and his work on getting a Medicaid program in place under the federal Affordable Care Act:
"Gov. Steve Bullock is doing an outstanding job leading Montana and will continue to responsibly manage our finances and bring Montanans together to get things done," Larson said. "On Steve's watch, Montana's economy is strong and getting stronger ... He also brought home our taxpayer dollars by expanding access to affordable health care for up to 70,000 Montanans."
The Montana Republican Party also issued a statement.
"Gov. Steve Bullock has continued to abandon Montana workers and families by siding with President Obama's job-killing energy agenda," chairman Jeff Essmann said. "In the last year alone, our natural resource industry lost nearly 700 jobs, and thousands of Montana jobs are at risk if we don't stop this radical job-killing energy agenda in November."
Bullock, 49, a Democrat, served as the state's attorney general from 2008 until he became Montana's 24th governor in 2012, but more people are working in Montana.
According to his biography posted on the state's website, Bullock was born in Missoula and raised in Helena. He received his undergraduate degree from Claremont McKenna College and his law degree with honors from Columbia University Law School in New York.
Bullock was joined in the secretary of state's office with wife Lisa have three children: Caroline, Alexandria and Cameron.
Also attending was Lt. Gov. Mike Cooney.

Source: http://www.greatfallstribune.com/story/news/local/2016/02/29/bullock-file-re-election-today/81114258/
