Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces New Workforce Training Program
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Feb. 8, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Today, Governor Steve Bullock was joined by Commissioner of the Montana Department of Labor & Industry Pam Bucy, and HELP Act sponsor Senator Ed Buttrey (SD 11, Great Falls) to announce the launch of HELP-Link at the Great Falls Job Service.
"Making workforce training and employment services available to more Montanans puts our state on the path of continued economic growth," said Governor Bullock. "As our economy continues to grow, the Montana HELP-Link plan provides employment opportunities for more hard working Montanans and creates a larger workforce for expanding businesses in Montana."
HELP-Link is a free workforce program for Montanans covered by Medicaid under the Montana HELP Plan. Created by the HELP Act, HELP-Link connects Medicaid enrollees with high quality workforce training, employment services and job openings in local communities.
"The Legislature, working with Governor Bullock, came together in 2015 to pass a unique and innovative health care solution -- the HELP Act," said Senator Buttrey. "Today we celebrate HELP-Link, the next step in our solution. HELP-Link will ensure Montanans, working with the Job Service and other entities, will have opportunities for employment or better employment as they embark on the path to financial independence."
Employment services offered through HELP-Link and Montana's Job Services include:
Assistance with resumé and cover letters, job applications and interview skills
Resource center for job seekers including the Montana Career Information System (MCIS)
Labor market information and skills testing
Assistance for veterans of the military and eligible spouses
"HELP-Link expands the ability for Montanans to receive high quality workforce information and skill building training to enter the labor force or increase their skills for a career change," said Commissioner of Labor & Industry Bucy. "People can explore employment options, connect with local employers, and achieve their career goals by participating in HELP-Link."
The Montana HELP Plan makes health coverage available to individuals and families who earn less than 138 percent of the federal poverty level (roughly $16,000 per year for an individual and $33,000 for a family of four). Coverage is offered through Blue Cross Blue Shield (Third Party Administrator), following the model of the successful Healthy Montana Kids health care program. Montana is the only state in the nation to take this unique approach.
Montanans can sign up for HELP-Link today at www.jobs.mt.gov or by visiting their local Job Service Offic

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/3103/Governor-Bullock-Announces-New-Workforce-Training-Program
