Public Statements
Governor Bullock Introduces Montana Business Navigator to Bozeman
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Feb. 3, 2016
Location: Bozeman, MT

Governor Steve Bullock today was joined by Montana entrepreneur Will Price and Bozeman business leaders to introduce the Montana Business Navigator to the Bozeman business community. The Business Navigator is a new online service that guides prospective business owners and entrepreneurs through a streamlined process of identifying the necessary registrations, licenses, and permits needed to start a business in Montana.
"Montana's small businesses are a driving force of our state's growing economy," said Governor Bullock. "The Montana Business Navigator is the result of direct feedback we solicited from entrepreneurs and small business owners across the state who told us about the need to streamline information, cut red tape and make it easier to create jobs."
The Business Navigator offers a checklist as a guide for Montanans to identify the state permits and licenses needed to open and operate a business in Montana. The checklist is tailored to the specific business input by the user. Since the site went live on January 14 of this year, more than 3,500 people have visited the Navigator website and 200 individuals have used the Business Checklist portion of the Navigator.
"It's great to see the public sector implement ideas generated directly from small business owners to help make starting a business in Montana as easy as possible," said Will Price, President and Founder of Next Frontier Capital. "This new Business Navigator is another great resource in a growing set of tools for entrepreneurial Montanans to pursue their dreams in the Big Sky state."
The Governor's Office of Economic Development led the development of the Business Navigator under the directive of the Governor's Main Street Montana Project to cut red tape for small businesses and increase government efficiency.
"The Business Navigator is the result of hundreds of discussions and working sessions with a diverse group of stakeholders in government, economic development, and private business," said John Rogers, Chief Business Development Officer for the State of Montana. "We are all very proud of the final product."
The Business Navigator can be accessed at www.business.mt.gov/navigator.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/3108/Governor-Bullock-Introduces-Montana-Business-Navigator-to-Bozeman
