Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces Grants to Grow Businesses, Create Jobs, and Train Workers
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Jan. 29, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock today announced $293,360 of grant funding to help Montana businesses in eight communities create 42 new jobs.
"Effective public-private partnerships are critical to growing Montana's economy," said Governor Bullock. "Every project funded through these programs is helping to create opportunities for workers and to build a stronger and more competitive economy."
The grants are being made available through the Big Sky Economic Development Trust Fund (BSTF) and the Primary Sector Workforce Training Grant (WTG) programs.
Hamilton is one of eight communities where grant funds are growing the economy through area businesses.
With a $37,500 grant awarded through Ravalli County, Hamilton-based IronHaus, Inc., which manufactures high-end handcrafted iron fireplace doors and systems, will be able to bring in more business from out of state while creating five new jobs in the area.
"The ability to be awarded a grant that will facilitate the implementation of new equipment, and ultimately create more jobs and business, allows our company to greatly expand into our national marketplace," said IronHaus CEO/General Manager Tim Campbell.
The full list of recipients includes:
Big Sky Economic Development Trust Fund (BSTF) -- Job Creation and Planning Grants
The BSTF Program provides state funds to promote long-term stable economic growth in Montana. More information can be found at www.bstf.mt.gov.
The City of Bozeman received $75,000 of BSTF funds to assist Montana Meat Company to expand, which allow the company to create 10 new jobs in Bozeman. The BSTF funds will be used for wage reimbursement. Montana Meat Company is meat broker which focuses on bring grass-fed and natural meat products to customers.
Ravalli County received $37,500 of BSTF funds to assist IronHaus, Inc. to expand, which will allow the company to create 5 new jobs for Ravalli County. The BSTF funds will be used for equipment purchases and wages.
Bear Paw Development of Havre received $15,750 to assist Missouri River Medical Center (MRMC) with a financial feasibility study. MRMC is a 7-bed Critical Access Hospital, 45-bed nursing home, 6-bed assisted living facility and a rural health clinic located in Fort Benton.
Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes of Poplar received $26,250 to prepare a workforce study which will allow the Tribes to better assess its workforce needs.
Great Northern Development Corporation received $13,000 to assist Redwater Manor Independent and Assisted Living Complex, Inc. with a completion of a feasibility and market study to support the development of an assisted and independent living facility in Circle.
Snowy Mountain Snowy Mountain Development Corporation received $8,000 to assist Dirty Oscars Annex MT, LLC with the completion of a feasibility study with structural analysis to determine the next steps in preserving and re-developing the historic structure.
Primary Sector Workforce Training Grant (WTG)
The WTG Program encourages the creation of jobs in primary sector businesses. More information can be found at www.wtg.mt.gov.
Alpine Precision, Inc. received $47,860 of WTG funds to train 10 full-time jobs. The funds will be used to train new hires in equipment skills, industries standards and AS9000. Alpine Precision, Inc. is located in Libby and manufactures precision machined parts primarily for the semi-conductor aerospace and defense industries.
Columbia Pacific Finance, LLC received $70,000 of WTG funds to train 12 full-time and 2 part-time jobs. The funds will be used to provide one-on-one training on the industry, technology and sales methods needed to be successful in their market. Columbia Pacific Finance, LLC is a premium financing agent for insurance agencies and is proposing to establish an office in Missoula.
More funding opportunities are still available. The deadline for submitting an application for consideration at the next Grant/Loan Review Committee meeting is Feb. 24. For more information, contact Montana Department of Commerce Office of Business and Tourism Development Finance Bureau Section Manager Annmarie Robinson by phone at 406.841.2250.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/3107/Governor-Bullock-Announces-Grants-to-Grow-Businesses-Create-Jobs-and-Train-Workers
