Public Statements
Montana's Unemployment Rate at 4.0 Percent in December
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Jan. 26, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Montana's unemployment rate declined slightly by one-tenth of a percent to 4.0% in December. Montana's unemployment rate has been hovering around 4.0% for most of 2015. The U.S. unemployment rate remained unchanged over the month at 5.0%.
"More Montanans are working today than ever before and that's a testament to the small business environment we've worked so hard to strengthen over the last three years," said Governor Bullock, who noted that Montana's unemployment rate now falls a full percentage point below the national average. "But our work isn't done. My responsibility is to keep moving Montana in the right direction by holding the line on taxes, getting rid of red tape and making responsible financial decisions that keeps our budget balanced and keeping our rainy day fund intact."
"Our economy continues to add jobs and Montanans can look forward to a positive outlook for the new year," said Labor & Industry Commissioner Pam Bucy. "We continue to build partnerships with businesses and higher education to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our worker training systems."
Both total employment and payroll employment levels showed little change over the month. Payroll employment indicated a gain of 600 jobs, with more construction jobs and fewer retail jobs than usual for December. Total employment estimates, which include agricultural and self-employed workers along with payroll workers, indicate a statistically insignificant loss of 201 jobs. Employment growth during 2015 remains quite strong, adding 10,224 jobs over the year for a growth rate of 2.1% compared to the long-term average of about 1%.
The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) declined 0.1% in December. Energy prices fell 2.4% over the month, with a slight decline in food prices. The index for all items less food and energy (also called core inflation) rose 0.1% in December. Overall, inflation was negligible in 2015, with the annual price level increasing by only 0.1% from 2014.
** Statewide unemployment figures are seasonally-adjusted. Seasonally-adjusted numbers remove the effects of events that follow a more or less regular month-to-month pattern each year. These adjustments make nonseasonal patterns easier to identify. The margin of error for the unemployment rate is plus or minus 0.5 percentage points at the 90 percent confidence level. All questions relating to the calculation of unemployment rates should be directed to the Montana Department of Labor and Industry's Research and Analysis Bureau at 1-800-541-3904.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/3030/Montana%e2%80%99s-Unemployment-Rate-at-40-Percent-in-December
