Public Statements
Bullock Stands Up For Montanans' Rights
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Jan. 20, 2016
Location: Unknown

On a day that honored civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., Montana Gov. Steve Bullock took action to advance human rights in our state.
Citing the Montana Constitution's provision "the dignity of the human being is inviolable," Bullock on Monday issued an executive order barring discrimination in state government hiring. He also ordered that state contracts be written to ban hiring discrimination by businesses that provide goods or services to the state.
Of course, state and federal laws already aim to protect people from discrimination based on race, gender, religion and other characteristics. But Bullock expanded protections specifically to cover pregnancy, childbirth, U.S. military veterans, genetic information, and people who are gay, lesbian, transgender or bisexual.
Bullock ordered that "all hiring must be on the basis of merit and qualifications."
Bullock pointed out how discrimination in hiring can affect all Montanans, not just the individuals targeted: "Montana is likely to face a worker shortage over the next decade, and this shortage will be exacerbated by discrimination that drives away talented and trained workers who want to live in a place where they are free from discrimination and harassment," he said.
"Workplace protections are linked to greater job commitment, improved workplace relationships, increased job satisfaction and improved health outcomes of employees," Bullock said.
State employees found to have violated the new nondiscrimination and nonharassment policies will be subject to discipline, including possible termination. The Department of Administration has the task of writing and promulgating the new policies under Bullock's order.
One might wonder if pregnancy discrimination is a problem. It was according to at least two dozen women who filed complaints with the Montana Human Rights Commission last year.
Montana's U.S. veterans of Iraq and Afghan wars have had an unusually high jobless rate. No discrimination can be tolerated as these heroes seek to return to productive civilian life.
The most controversial protection is for LGBT folks. A bill that would have added sexual orientation and sexual identity to state anti-discrimination law was killed in committee immediately after its first hearing in the 2015 Legislature. The Billings City Council rejected a nondiscrimination ordinance covering hiring, housing and public accommodations on a 6-5 vote in 2014.
However, four other Montana cities -- Missoula, Butte, Bozeman and Helena -- have adopted laws in recent years that ban discrimination based on sexual orientation or sexual identity.
Small wonder that Billings ranked behind those cities in the Human Rights Campaign's annual Municipality Equality Index released in December. Missoula rated a perfect 100 score for its city laws, city employment policies and law enforcement. Billings received a score of 20, which included 12 points because the Billings Police Department reported hate crime statistics to the FBI and 5 points for having a city Human Rights Commission. Among the Montana cities ranked, only Great Falls was lower with a score of 14.
Excluding any group of people from the same protections enjoyed by the general population limits the growth and future success of our city and state. LGBT folks don't deserve "special" protection, they deserve the same protection from discrimination in employment that other Montanans expect.
We commend Bullock for using his executive authority to further the constitutional guarantee of equality for all under the Big Sky.
"I am honored to stand up for all Montanans to ensure that no one is denied full and equal participation in our state's workforce based on discrimination and intolerance," Bullock said in announcing his order.
Amen, governor.

Source: http://billingsgazette.com/news/opinion/editorial/gazette-opinion/bullock-stands-up-for-montanans-rights/article_a8e014a4-4085-5a79-94f5-081fcfeb05fc.html
