Public Statements
Governor Bullock Highlights Tax Incentive for Montana Businesses to Grow and Create Jobs
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: June 1, 2017
Location: Unknown

Montana Governor Steve Bullock today held a ceremonial bill signing in Great Falls for his apprenticeship tax credit (HB 308) to incentivize businesses to grow, create good-paying jobs for Montana families, and build employee skills.
"Small businesses are the heart of Montana's economy and the job creators of today and tomorrow," said Governor Bullock. "This is another opportunity to make sure that employers have access to a trained and talented workforce so that we can continue to grow Main Street Montana businesses, all while boosting earning potential for Montanans across the state."
Governor Bullock joined Great Falls Representative Casey Schreiner, the bill's sponsor, and the Commissioner of Labor and Industry, Pam Bucy, at Central Plumbing and Heating to highlight this tax incentivize for Montana's small businesses.
"We know that the role of government is not to create jobs, but to rather create an environment where Montana businesses can thrive, innovate and prosper," said Representative Schreiner. "The apprenticeship tax credit is a great example of the State recognizing that we need to have skin in the game, and we need to give a little back to those that are driving our economy, Montana business owners."
"The apprenticeship tax credit is another example committing to this time-honored training model to strengthen Montana's economy," said Department of Labor & Industry Commissioner Pam Bucy. "We look forward to businesses taking advantage of this opportunity to grow and expand their talent pipelines with the highly skilled workers they need."
HB 308 will provide Montana businesses with a $750 tax credit for every position hired where the worker is offered on-the-job training through the Montana Registered Apprenticeship unit. For every veteran hired and given an apprenticeship opportunity, businesses will be provided a $1,500 tax credit. The apprenticeship tax credit will provide veterans opportunities to apply the skills and leadership they learned while serving in the military to industry sectors across Montana.

Source:
