Public Statements
Governor Steve Bullock Announces Interim Clean Power Plan Advisory Council Members
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Jan. 5, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Today Governor Steve Bullock appointed a twenty-seven member Interim Clean Power Plan Advisory Council. The Council will gather information and provide recommendations on policies and actions necessary for the State of Montana to keep control over its energy future, protecting Montana's economy and quality of life.
The Council will review applicable memoranda and guidance, information on rate and mass-based compliance tools, economic and reliability modeling, and the work of other states and entities. At the conclusion of this process, the Council will make recommendations to Montana Department of Environmental Quality regarding the filing of an Initial Submittal.
"Done right, a Montana plan will drive economic growth and create and maintain good-paying jobs across Montana. It will improve upon our traditional base of energy generation while sparking a new generation of clean technology business, moving us to more renewable energy, and encouraging innovation, savings and energy efficiency for homes and businesses," said Bullock.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency finalized its Clean Power Plan rule on October 23, 2015. The final rule was substantially different from the proposed rules released in 2014, and Montana's requirement for reduction of CO2 emissions significantly increased to 47%. The reductions directed by the EPA are required to be achieved by 2030.
"Montanans place a very high premium on protecting our clean air and water, outdoor heritage, and way of life," said Bullock.
Changing market conditions and the Clean Power Plan will most certainly affect all aspects of power production in the state. Montana's coal industry will most notably face the stiffest challenges in the years ahead. Finding creative solutions that support the coal industry, as well as growing jobs in energy efficiency and the renewable energy sector, are vital steps to our future and to protecting Montana's clean air and water.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/2924
