Public Statements
Issue Position: Better Jobs
Issue Position
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Cut taxes for every Montana business

Eliminated the business equipment tax for 2/3rds of Montana businesses

Created the first ever business plan for the state: the Main Street Montana Project

Launched the Equal Pay for Equal Work Task Force to ensure all Montanans earn a fair day's wage for a fair day's work

Provided tax cuts for businesses that install new pollution control equipment

Ensured that Montana state government was recognizing tribally organized businesses, to improve economic opportunity for Indian Country.
INITIATIVES
Main Street Montana Project
Governor Steve Bullock launched the Main Street Montana Project in early 2013 to develop a business plan for Montana by Montanans. This plan will build on Montana's strengths, while addressing challenges that have slowed business and wage growth in the state. The Project, which is led by several of Montana's top private-sector business leaders, met with thousands of Montanans, from every corner of the state to develop this plan.
In April of 2014, Governor Bullock, along with private sector leaders, released the plan, which focuses on 5 key pillars:
Train and Educate Tomorrow's Workforce Today
Create a Climate that Attracts, Retains and Grows Business
Build Upon Montana's Economic Foundation
Market Montana
Nurture Emerging Industries and Encourage Innovation
Learn more about the Main Street Montana Project at: www.MainStreetMontanaProject.com
Aligning Workforce Development Strategies to Meet the Demands of a Changing Economy
It's no secret that Montana's economy, like the global economy, is changing. It's with this in mind that Governor Bullock is working to ensure that Montanans have access to training that will equip them with the skills to compete in an ever changing economy, while also ensuring Montana businesses have access to talented and trained workers.
In 2013, Montana earned a $25 million grant to bring together colleges and more than 80 private sector businesses, to design curricula and course work that will ensure Montana students are gaining the skills that today's economy demands. Through this partnership, students will get hands-on training with tools, in settings that will allow them to succeed in today's workforce. In addition, having a talented and trained workforce will help entice new and innovative businesses to set up shop in the state.
Equal Pay for Equal Work Task Force
Governor Bullock believes that all Montana workers deserve a fair day's wage for a fair day's work, regardless of their gender. Unfortunately, this isn't the case in Montana. Currently, women are earning only 67 percent of what men earn, putting Montana at 39th place in the nation for pay equity.
It's with this in mind that in June of 2013, Governor Bullock established the Equal Pay for Equal Work Task Force to identify the causes of the gender pay gap, and develop solutions to close it once and for all.

Source: https://governor.mt.gov/betterjobs
