Public Statements
Governor, First Lady Bullock Award Nearly $36,000 to 9 Montana Schools to Expand School Breakfast
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Dec. 17, 2015
Location: Helena, MT

As a part of their Montana Breakfast after the Bell initiative, Governor Steve Bullock and First Lady Lisa Bullock announced today that a total of $36,000 in privately funded grants have been awarded to 9 schools to implement new school breakfast programs or transition to models that increase participation, such as breakfast in the classroom or "grab-and-go."
The grants were made possible with support from Jeff Bridges, Share Our Strength, Round It Up Montana, Blue Cross Blue Shield, First Interstate Bank Foundation, and Neptune Aviation.
"Part of ensuring that every Montana student has the opportunity to succeed starts with access to a healthy breakfast," Governor Bullock said. "Together with educators, community partners, and private business, my wife and I will continue our efforts to expand this program across the state and make sure every kid in Montana starts each school day ready to learn."
The grants, offered through Montana No Kid Hungry, are intended to help schools pay for essential equipment and infrastructure such as grab-and-go kiosks, carts for delivering meals to classrooms, or temporary staffing through the implementation phase; programs are expected to be self-sustaining thereafter. The meals served through the school breakfast program are federally funded by the United States Department of Agriculture. Therefore, the more kids participate in school breakfast, the more funding the school receives to operate the program.
On average, school breakfast participation rises to more than 70 percent when schools implement a Breakfast after the Bell model versus 30 percent with a traditional model that serves breakfast in the cafeteria before school starts.
"When breakfast is served after the bell, it's more accessible and less stigmatizing to our students," said First Lady Lisa Bullock. "Our goal is to award even more grants this school year, so that more students can concentrate on the academic task at hand rather than starting the day with the distraction of an empty stomach."

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/2554
