Public Statements
Governor Bullock Joins Montana Working Families to Highlight Tax Cut
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: May 24, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Steve Bullock today held a ceremonial bill signing in Great Falls for the Montana Earned Income Tax Credit (HB 391). He was joined by Montana working families and the bill's sponsor, Representative Tom Jacobson, to highlight this major piece of legislation that will help Montanans keep more money in their pockets and get ahead.
"This is a big deal for 80,000 Montana working families that want to get ahead and stay ahead," said Governor Bullock. "Montana's economy is stronger if everyone has the opportunity to succeed, and by ensuring tax fairness for hard-working Montanans, we will continue to grow our state and local economies."
"It was an honor to sponsor this important legislation that will benefit more than 80,000 hard-working Montana families," said Rep. Tom Jacobson. "The Earned Income Tax Credit is the most effective tool to lifting working families out of poverty who will, in turn, invest these dollars in our local economies."
The Montana Earned Income Tax Credit passed with bipartisan support and will provide an additional tax credit to low- and moderate-income workers of up to 3% of the federal earned income tax credit. Beginning in 2020, nearly 80,000 Montana families that earn income through work will be eligible to receive this tax credit through their tax return.
Jessica Michel, who is raising her granddaughter and has received the federal earned income tax credit, participated in the ceremonial bill signing with Governor Bullock. She testified in support of passing a state earned income tax credit during the 2015 and 2017 legislative sessions as an extra source of income to help meet basic needs for her granddaughter.
"This is a great day for the hard-working families of Montana," said Jessica Michel. "This bill means that working families can afford to catch up on an electrical bill after a long winter or pay for an oil change so their vehicle continues to get them to work. My fellow Montanans and I now have the ability to continue and increase our quality of life, and for that, we are truly and humbly grateful."
Montana joins 26 other states in implementing an earned income tax credit (EITC). The federal EITC and state EITCs have been effective anti-poverty measures in boosting the income of workers to help meet basic needs and in lifting families out of poverty, particularly children. For more information on the EITC, visit irs.gov.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/governor-bullock-joins-montana-working-families-to-highlight-tax-cut
