Public Statements
Governor Bullock Signs Executive Order Creating Interim Montana Clean Power Plan Advisory Council Council will support Bullock's efforts to keep Montana in control of its energy future
Statement
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Nov. 12, 2015
Location: Helena, MT

Today, Governor Steve Bullock issued an executive order creating the Interim Montana Clean Power Plan Advisory Council. The Council will gather information and provide recommendations on policies and actions necessary for the State of Montana to keep control over its energy future, protecting Montana's economy and quality of life.
"Rolling up our sleeves and getting to work now is critical to keep our energy future in the hands of Montanans," Bullock said. "We need to move forward with a sense of purpose to ensure the Montana we enjoy today continues to be the Montana future generations inherit."
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency finalized its Clean Power Plan rule on October 23, 2015. The final rule was substantially different from the proposed rules released in 2014, and Montana's requirement for reduction of CO2 emissions significantly increased to 47%. The reductions directed by the EPA are required to be achieved by 2030.
"I believe we must take action to address climate change. Earlier this year, my administration began making plans to build a Montana-based solution to the proposed rule, that would have both protected existing jobs and created new ones. But the EPA changed course and has now imposed on Montana the largest emissions cut of any state. The EPA's unilateral mandate is unfair to the people of Montana," said Bullock
"But we cannot sit on our hands and do nothing. While the courts determine the fate of the rule, we will do the responsible thing, bring Montanans together, and prepare a Montana-based solution, so that we are never in the position of having a policy imposed on us by bureaucrats in Washington DC.," said Bullock
Changing market conditions and the Clean Power Plan will most certainly affect all aspects of power production in the state. Montana's coal industry will most notably face the stiffest challenges in the years ahead. Protecting this industry, getting smarter about energy efficiency, and growing the renewable energy sector is vital to our future and to ensuring Montana's clean air and water remains unthreatened.
"When Montanans work together, we achieve remarkable results." said Bullock.

Source: https://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/2168
