Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces Research and Commercialization Technology Grants for Eight Cutting-Edge Research Projects
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: July 22, 2015
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock and Montana Department of Commerce Director Meg O'Leary today announced the recent award of $698,091 in grants to eight research projects in Missoula, Billings, Bozeman and Belgrade. The funding is being made available through the Montana Board of Research and Commercialization Technology (MBRCT).
"These state-of-the-art projects will significantly and positively impact Montana's opportunities for economic growth," said Bullock. "Through investments in innovative research and commercialization, we're not only supporting cutting-edge projects and jobs today, but we're also helping to define what Montana's economy looks like for years to come."
The MBRCT supports economic development by investing in research projects that have a clear path to commercialization. The MBRCT has funded 216 research projects totaling $41 million since 2001.
The fifth Pillar of Bullock's Main Street Montana Project outlines steps that Montana can take to encourage innovation in Montana. During the recently ended legislative session, Bullock secured $15 million to support research and development in the Montana University System.
A study conducted by the Bureau of Business and Economic Research (BBER), the main research unit of the School of Business Administration at the University of Montana, found that the operations of MBRCT "have produced a larger, more prosperous and populous state economy, increasing the tax base since 2000, than would have existed in its absence."
"These grants are an investment in Montana's technology future and in the industries and companies that develop around this research activity," said O'Leary. "Since the program's inception, MBRCT-funded projects have attracted over $345 million in follow-on funding, enhancing the economic impact of the research."
The funded projects and grant awardees for fiscal year 2016 are:
Hyperspectral Imaging using Arrays of Liquid Crystal Filled Optical Microcavities (Russell Barbour, Advanced Microcavity Sensors/Spectrum Lab-Montana State University, Bozeman); $209,015
Antilipidemic and Anti-adipodicity Impact of PTBP in Mildly Hyperlipidemic and Overweight but Otherwise Healthy Volunteers (Jeff Golini, All American Pharmaceutical Inc., Billings); $12,500
Demineralized Bone Matrix Bio-Composite Allografts with Enhanced Regenerative Capacity (Mark Schallenberger, Bacterin International, Inc., Belgrade); $100,000
Cross-Species-Conditioned Xenogenic Bone Grafts for Veterinary Medicine (Jane Shelby, Timberline Creek Biomedical, Bozeman); $100,000
A Flexible FPGA Computational Framework for Resonon's Hyperspectral Imagers (Ross Snider, Montana State University, Bozeman); $100,000
Structural Analysis and In Vivo Characterization of BH3I-1 and BH3I-1 Derivatives (Kurt Toenjes, Montana State University Billings, Billings); $92,039
Inhibition of Retinoic Acid Metabolism in the Skin for the Treatment of Acne (Fanny Astruc-Diaz, DermaXon LLC, Missoula); $59,537
Enhancement of Applied Research in Biomedicine (Richard Bridges, University of Montana, Missoula); $25,000
For more information about the Montana Board of Research and Commercialization Technology and the recent awards made by the Board, please contact Dave Desch, Executive Director, at (406) 841-2759 or visit www.businessresources.mt.gov/mbrct.

Source: https://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/1576
