Public Statements
Montana Counties Designated as Natural Disaster Areas Due to Drought Conditions
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: July 15, 2015
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock today announced fifteen Montana counties have been designated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as primary natural disaster areas due to drought conditions, and nine additional ones have been named contiguous disaster counties. Secretary Tom Vilsack notified Bullock through a letter this morning. This declaration allows farm operators in these designated counties to be considered for assistance from the Farm Services Agency (FSA) to recover from losses as a result of a natural disaster.
Counties designated as primary disaster areas are:
Beaverhead
Deer Lodge
Flathead
Glacier
Granite
Lake
Lewis & Clark
Lincoln
Mineral
Missoula
Pondera
Powell
Ravalli
Sanders
Silver Bow
Areas designated as contiguous disaster counties are:
Broadwater
Cascade
Choteau
Jefferson
Liberty
Madison
Meagher
Teton
Toole
"Farmers from many Montana communities are feeling the impacts of drought conditions. This declaration will provide much needed assistance to agriculture producers that have seen or will have significant crop damage or loss," Bullock said of the declaration. "With low snowpack and rain, we know many other communities throughout the state are struggling with dry conditions, and my administration will work closely with the USDA to monitor conditions and take any appropriate steps to provide assistance."
Farmers in eligible counties have eight months from the disaster declaration to apply for an emergency loan. Local FSA offices can provide affected farmers with more information. More information about this declaration can be found at: http://disaster.fsa.usda.gov
The Montana Drought Advisory Committee, which is chaired by Lt. Gov. Angela McLean, will meet tomorrow, July 16th, in Helena to discuss the latest drought conditions in the state.

Source: https://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/1501
