Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces Economic Development Funds for Fort Peck Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: July 13, 2015
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock and Montana Department of Commerce Director Meg O'Leary today announced the recent award of $65,000 to support economic development efforts by the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes. The funds will support a Business Development Manager position, which will manage several projects critical to economic success on the Fort Peck Indian Reservation.
"This grant will support efforts by the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes to continue to build and strengthen their regional economy," said Bullock. "We are pleased to be able to support tribal entrepreneurial ventures, create and retain jobs, and further develop infrastructure on reservations."
Available through the Indian Country Economic Development (ICED) program, Director O'Leary said the funds will help the tribes bring new and existing projects to fruition.
"The ICED program allows tribes to focus on economic development projects that will bring the greatest benefit to their regions," she said. "This position will continue to work on local projects that the tribes have determined are the highest priority for their area. The Department of Commerce is pleased to help with this effort."
Projects the Business Development Manager will focus on include development of the old airport area with housing and commercial development, work on the Wellness Center, rail spur planning, analysis and development of tribal water usage, specialty crop feasibility, and progress toward a hotel and travel plaza.
"The Fort Peck Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes hereby express our sincere thanks to Montana Governor Steve Bullock and his stafffor their award to the Fort Peck Tribes," said A.T. Stafne, Tribal Chairman. "Economic development projects developed and grown on this site will have a major impact on the future of our Tribes, the community of Poplar and the entire economy of Northeast Montana."
The state-funded ICED program is designed to promote economic growth on Montana's Indian reservations. For more information on the ICED program, contact Program Manager Heather Sobrepena-George at (406) 841-2775 or visit www.iced.mt.gov.

Source: https://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/1491
