Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces Major Economic Summit in Montana July 12 - 16
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: July 7, 2015
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock today announced that more than 500 leaders in government, business, and academia from the northwest United States and western Canada will come together at the 25th Annual Pacific Northwest Economic Region (PNWER) Summit, July 12 -- 16 in Big Sky, Montana. This is the first time the Summit will be held in Montana.
"It is an honor to host this large gathering of respected business and policy leaders from around the region right here in Montana," said Bullock. "I look forward to sharing Montana's economic and policy achievements with our neighbors, learning from their accomplishments, and working together to increase collaboration on critical issues that transcend our regional boundaries."
Ambassador Bruce Heyman, U.S. Ambassador to Canada, Ambassador Gary Doer, Canadian Ambassador to the U.S., U.S. Senator Steve Daines, Matt Rose, Executive Chairman of the BNSF Railway Company and Samuel Schulhofter-Wohl, Senior Vice President and Director of Research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis are among the over 150 speakers who will address the legislative and business delegates at the Summit.
Discussion and recommended joint-action plans at the Summit will address: a regional perimeter defense strategy for aquatic invasive species, solutions for the multi-modal transportation system of the bi-national region, cooperative approaches to forest management, advancing NetZero energy-efficient building in the region, sharing best practices for environmental stewardship, and much more.
"The Big Sky Summit will focus on building regional solutions to global challenges. It will highlight best practices in Montana and will give legislative and civic leaders from the Northwest and Canada an opportunity to collaborate on common issues and develop an action plan to address many of our common challenges," said Matt Morrison, Executive Director of PNWER.
ABOUT THE PNWER SUMMIT
Held in alternating member jurisdictions each year, the annual PNWER summit draws hundreds of key business leaders, legislators, and community leaders from PNWER's 10 states, provinces, and territories. Summit participants meet in "working groups" to develop action items on policy issues in agriculture, the arctic, border issues, cross-border livestock health, disaster resilience, energy, environment, innovation and higher education, invasive species, trade and economic development, transportation, tourism, water policy, and workforce development.
See the Summit agenda, list of speakers and travel information at www.pnwer.org/2015Summit.
ABOUT PNWER
The Pacific Northwest Economic Region (PNWER) is a statutory non-profit public/private partnership chartered by the states and provinces in 1991. Member jurisdictions include Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, Montana, Washington, and the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, and the Yukon and Northwest Territories. PNWER's mission is to increase the economic well-being and quality of life for all citizens of the region while maintaining and enhancing our natural environment; identify and promote "models of success"; and serve as a conduit to exchange information.

Source: https://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/1484
