Public Statements
Montana's Unemployment Rate Drops to 3.9 Percent
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: June 19, 2015
Location: Helena, MT

Montana's unemployment rate declined to 3.9 percent in May, down 0.1 percentage points from April. Employment levels in Montana are now over the half million threshold for the first time ever. The U.S. unemployment rate increased by 0.1 percentage points to 5.5 percent. New data from the Montana Department of Labor & Industry also showed that the state's average annual wage increased to $38,875 in 2014, a 3.5% increase over last year.
"Montana added roughly 1,500 more jobs last month," Governor Steve Bullock said. "Our strong growth and low unemployment are driving up wages, meaning more Montanans are working and putting more money in their pockets on payday."
"Strong employment growth in the first five months of 2015 has pushed Montana's employment level to more than half a million jobs," said Labor Commissioner Pam Bucy. "The Montana Department of Labor and Industry is committed to identifying and training more Montana workers to increase this number even further."
Montana's total employment levels continued to grow, increasing by 1,469 jobs in May, for a total of 11,989 jobs added over the last twelve months and total employment of 504,195. Total employment estimates include payroll employment, plus agricultural and self-employed workers. Payroll employment did not increase over the month, but posted a larger than average gain of 1,900 jobs in April.
Annual wage data for 2014 is now available, indicating that the average annual wage in Montana increased 3.5 percent last year to $38,875. Inflation in 2014 was only 1.6 percent, meaning that Montana workers experienced real wage growth above the rate of inflation.
Also new this month, the Montana Department of Labor and Industry has expanded its local labor market information to provide monthly unemployment rates for each of Montana's seven reservations. The reservation employment and unemployment rates are produced using the same data and methodology as the county unemployment rates, making the data comparable to other counties, the state, or other regions. Like the county data, the reservation data is not seasonally adjusted and will vary month to month due to both seasonal changes and underlying trends in the economy. The monthly publication of comparable unemployment rates for Montana's reservation areas will assist these areas with economic development and research. Reservation unemployment rates will be available in the tables below and in the data search tool at www.lmi.mt.gov.
The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) increased 0.4 percent in May on a seasonally adjusted basis, mostly due to a spike in gasoline prices. The index for all items less food and energy, also called core inflation, rose 0.1 percent in May.

Source: https://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/1436
