Public Statements
Joliet Ratepayers to Save More than $76,000 Due to SRF Program Changes
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: June 3, 2015
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock today announced that ratepayers in Joliet will save $76,511 thanks to changes he made to the State Revolving Fund (SRF) loan program last year. The savings come as a result of SRF loans to the city, totaling $835,000, to make upgrades to the community's wastewater treatment system. Joliet also received a $84,386 loan that is forgivable if certain conditions are met, and a $100,000 Renewable Resources Grant to support the project.
"A safe and reliable water system is critical to a strong local economy," Bullock said of the loans. "Through strong fiscal management, and a bit of common sense, we're ensuring ratepayers in Joliet can keep more money in their pockets, while making critical infrastructure upgrades. We'll continue to work with local communities to find responsible ways to make critical infrastructure improvements, and save money for Main Street Montana businesses and customers."
The loans will be used to install modern ultraviolet disinfection and new aeration equipment to ensure the town meets current wastewater discharge standards..
Joliet's original wastewater treatment facility was constructed in 1952. Other than standard maintenance and repairs, replacement of the town's backup generator has been the only improvement made to the system since 1985.
Last year, Bullock reduced the interest rates on loans through the SRF loan program in order to expand local government's access to capital to make important upgrades to local infrastructure, while saving ratepayers money. He reduced long-term interest rates in this program from 3 percent, to 2.5 percent, and reduced construction interest rates from 3 percent to 1.5 percent. In addition, he reduced the amount of financial reserves communities must hold in order to receive a loan, and reduced the debt service coverage communities must have. These changes were made possible through strong fiscal management at the state level and the state's sterling bond rating. In their first year, these reduced rates are expected to provide $40 million in savings for ratepayers across Montana.
The changes to the SRF interest rate were made as part of Bullock's Main Street Montana Project. This project is building and implementing a business plan for the state of Montana that helps businesses grow, supports job creation, and increases wages. One of the goals of the project is to ensure Montana businesses and communities have an efficient and reliable infrastructure.
The State Revolving Fund loan program, which is administered by the Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC) and the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), enables Montana communities to upgrade or expand critical drinking or wastewater treatment facilities at the lowest possible cost.

Source: http://news.mt.gov/Home/ArtMID/24469/ArticleID/1299/Joliet-Ratepayers-to-Save-More-Than-76000-Due-To-SRF-Program-Changes
