Public Statements
Montana's Unemployment Rate Down to 4.4 Percent
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: March 17, 2015
Location: Helena, MT

Montana's unemployment rate continued its decline in January, down 0.1 percentage points to 4.4 percent. The U.S. unemployment rate increased by 0.1 percentage points to 5.7 percent in January.
"Montana started 2015 with strong job growth, with the economy adding over 3,000 jobs in January," Governor Steve Bullock said. "With strong wage growth last year, and low inflation because of falling fuel prices, more Montanans are employed and have more money in their pockets."
"Montana's economy continues to add good-paying jobs," said Labor Commissioner Pam Bucy. "We must continue our efforts to train workers with the skills needed by businesses in order to continue job growth in today's low unemployment environment."
Montana's total employment levels increased by 3,230 jobs in January. Total employment estimates include payroll employment, plus agricultural and self-employed workers. Payroll employment estimates indicate a gain of 300 jobs over the month.
Every February, the Montana Department of Labor and Industry (DLI) and the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) recalculate the employment estimates for past years in a process called benchmarking. The benchmarking process makes employment estimates more accurate, in addition to smoothing the data series and calibrating the data to new population estimates. This year's benchmark process also included an update to a new model to estimate unemployment rates. Users of labor market information should update their files to reflect the revised estimates to be consistent with the new benchmark data.
The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) fell sharply for the third straight month in January, declining by 0.7 percent because of a drop in energy prices. The gasoline index fell by 18.7 percent in January. The January price decline erased all price increases from 2014, with the index decreasing 0.1 percent since January 2014, which marks the first over-the-year deflation since 2009. The index for all items less food and energy, also called core inflation, rose 0.2 percent in January.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Portals/16/docs/2015PressReleases/031715UnemploymentRelease.pdf
