Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces $610,500 for Low-Income Housing in Downtown Missoula
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: March 10, 2015
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock and Montana Department of Commerce Director Meg O'Leary today announced the recent award of $610,500 to the Missoula Housing Authority to assist with the construction of Dakota Place Apartments. Dakota Place Apartments will be a complex for single or homeless households, prioritizing those with a mental illness or co-occurring disorder in the Missoula area. The funding is being made available through the Montana HOME Investment Partnerships Program.
"This project will ensure that some of the most vulnerable residents in Missoula have access to safe, quality, and affordable housing," said Gov. Bullock. "I look forward to continuing to work with communities across Montana to increase access to low-income housing for those who need it most."
The partnership between HOME, the City of Missoula, and the Missoula Housing Authority is helping complete this much needed project to address the shortfall of affordable housing for homeless individuals. The City is providing a 10-year tax abatement and MHA has contributed the land for the new housing.
"Providing stability for at-risk individuals through housing is an important part of building strong and resilient communities," said Director O'Leary. "The HOME program provides the extra support that organizations need to move forward with projects, such as this one, that help increase the quality of life for all residents."
Missoula Mayor Jon Engen, who submitted a letter of support for the project, was appreciative of the funding. "We appreciate very much this help in providing housing for the most vulnerable in our community, the people whose need is most immediate," said Mayor John Engen. "Part of the measure of how well we do as a city is how well we provide for our neighbors who need help."
The project has an estimated 11-month construction schedule upon completion of the environmental review. Once completed, the units will allow at-risk individuals to easily access services to help reduce homelessness in Missoula.
For more information about the Montana HOME Investment Partnerships Program, please contact the Community Development Division at the Montana Department of Commerce at (406) 841-2770.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Portals/16/docs/2015PressReleases/031015HOMEMissoula.pdf
