Public Statements
Montana's Unemployment Rate at 4.3%
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Dec. 19, 2014
Location: Helena, MT

Montana's unemployment rate dropped again in November, down 0.2 percentage points to 4.3%. The unemployment rate has decreased by a full percentage point since January. The U.S. unemployment rate remained unchanged over the month at 5.8%.
"Montana's unemployment rate has declined by a full percentage point this year, a sign of our state's undeniable economic strength," Governor Steve Bullock said. "I'm committed to continuing our efforts to ensure that all Montana families enjoy the benefits of our growing economy."
"Montana's economic growth has been solid this year, and we anticipate a strong holiday season for our state's retail and tourism businesses with more consumer dollars in the economy," said Labor Commissioner Pam Bucy. "Heading into 2015, we expect this economic growth to continue, and we continue to expand training opportunities to ensure businesses have access to a skilled workforce to fill high-demand jobs."
Montana's total employment levels increased by 475 jobs over the last month, with 12,328 jobs added since last November. These preliminary numbers indicate strong job growth of 2.5% in 2014, much higher than the average historical growth rate of about 1% annually going back to 1976. Total employment estimates include payroll employment plus agricultural and self-employed workers. Payroll employment estimates indicate a gain of 1,000 jobs over the month, with gains in the trade, transportation, health care, and leisure activities industries.
The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) fell in November following a month of no change in October. Declines in gasoline and energy prices offset price increases in other goods in both months. The November decline in gas prices was the sharpest decline in gasoline since December 2008. The index for all items less food and energy, also called core inflation, increased 0.2 percent in October and 0.1 in November.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Portals/16/docs/2014PressReleases/121914UnemploymentRelease.pdf
