Public Statements
Governor Bullock Submits Comments to EPA Regarding Proposed Clean Air Rules
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Dec. 1, 2014
Location: Helena, MT

Today, Governor Bullock submitted comments to the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency regarding the agency's proposed clean air rules in Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act.
Bullock said that while we need to address climate change, he has some concerns about the impacts of the proposed rules on Montana. His administration has identified a number of changes to the rules that would be required in order to create the potential for new jobs and economic opportunities in the state.
Bullock also called upon the Obama administration to dedicate more funding to low-carbon coal research, saying: "We're going to be relying on coal resources for decades and we need to invest now in ways to make coal generation cleaner."
He highlighted three of the state's comments to the proposed rules that, if the rules go forward, are vital to Montana's interests:
-Flexibility for how the state can develop innovative solutions to comply with the rule;
-Ensuring that Montana is credited with renewable energy generated in our state, even if that energy is exported to other states; and
-Developing a more accurate baseline for setting emissions targets.
"Montana is going to be an energy leader for generations to come and we're poised to create thousands of new jobs while protecting the ones we have," Bullock said. "I'm looking for realistic and commonsense solutions that work for Montana, expand our economy and protect our clean air and water -- which is why we submitted these detailed comments."
In September, Governor Bullock released a white paper developed by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality, which outlines five possible scenarios that result in compliance with the EPA's proposed rate-based emission targets as well as Montana's estimated mass-based target."
Some have suggested that we should not substantively weigh in on this rule and rather just hope the discussion goes away. Others say that we should end our use of coal tomorrow. Neither of those extremes are going to result in a brighter future for Montana," said Bullock. I'm committed to a made-in-Montana solution that balances our energy needs while protecting our environment for future generations.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Portals/16/docs/2014PressReleases/120114111dCommentsRelease.pdf
