Public Statements
Governor Steve Bullock and the Montana Department of Commerce Encourage Montanans to Shop Local on Small Business Saturday®
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Nov. 26, 2014
Location: Helena, MT

One dollar spent at a locally owned business will result in five times that amount of
economic activity through increased wages and the purchase of goods and services by that businesses. It's with this in mind that Governor Steve Bullock and the Montana Department of Commerce are encouraging all Montanans to take part in Small Business Saturday® this upcoming Saturday, November 29th, by shopping at local businesses and dining at local restaurants in their communities.
"Montana's locally owned businesses help build the strong and vibrant communities that make Montana the best place to live, work, and do business," said Bullock. "These businesses create local jobs, enhance the economy, and preserve Montana's one-of-a-kind character."
"Whether you're looking for clothing, sporting goods, or toys, Main Street Montana businesses are a great place to find the perfect gift, while supporting your friends, neighbors and local economy," said Montana Department of Commerce Director Meg O'Leary. "We're encouraging all Montanans to make Small Business Saturday® part of their holiday shopping tradition."
Montanans looking for products made in the state can keep an eye out for products sporting the Made in Montana label. The Department of Commerce's Made in Montana program helps build recognition for products that are "authentically" Montana. There are over 2,500 program participants producing Montana products today, including everything from food and beverage producers to vehicle and machinery parts fabricators; software and online management companies to log home builders; fine artists; canvas tent makers; and so many more.
A key pillar of Bullock's Main Street Montana Project is "Marketing Montana," by increasing promotion of Made in Montana products and exports, with a specific focus on strengthen trade partnerships and marketing these products to customers both domestically and internationally.
To aide in the search for local goods, individuals can find some of the best products Montana has to offer through Made in Montana's website at www.madeinmontanausa.com.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Portals/16/docs/2014PressReleases/112614SmallBusinessSaturdayRelease.pdf
