Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces $500,000 in Grants for Tourism Infrastructure Projects
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Nov. 3, 2014
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock and Montana Department of Commerce Director Meg O'Leary announced the award of $500,000 for twelve tourism facility improvement projects in Billings, Butte, Eureka, Fort Belknap, Missoula, West Glacier, and West Yellowstone. The funds are being made available through the Tourism Infrastructure Investment Program (TIIP).
"With our unspoiled nature, breathtaking experiences and world-class hospitality, it's no wonder so many visitors want to spend their free time in Big Sky Country," Bullock said. "Tourism is an important part of our economy, and these grants will help our communities welcome the millions of visitors who come here every year to make their Montana moment."
In his Main Street Montana Project, Bullock has identified marketing Montana as a business and tourism destination one of the key pillars for economic development. In 2013, tourism added over $3.6 billion to the state's economy, with roughly 11 million visitors coming to the state. Tourism is one of the top employers in Montana, directly employing over 44,000 people at a payroll of $1.1 billion. It also contributed approximately $306 million in state and local taxes, decreasing the tax liability for Montana households.
The TIIP grants are awarded on an annual basis to eligible non-profit sponsors, communities and tribal nations for the construction of new tourism facilities, enhancement of existing facilities, and the preservation of Montana's heritage and cultural tourism treasures.
"The reinvestment of Montana's Lodging Tax funds into these dozen tourism facility projects will help Montana's tourism communities better serve both visitors and residents in the years to come," said Director O'Leary. "This year's TIIP grant funds are leveraging a substantial amount of private and public sector investment that are going to bring great benefits to Montana's main streets."

Source:
