Public Statements
Governor and First Lady Youth Leadership Council Gathers at State Capitol
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Oct. 27, 2014
Location: Helena, MT

On Saturday, Governor Steve Bullock and First Lady Lisa Bullock met with members of the Governor and First Lady Youth Leadership Council during a full-day retreat to discuss solutions to ending childhood hunger through service.
Hosted by the Governor's Office of Community Service, fifteen middle and high school students across Montana gathered to serve on the Governor and First Lady Youth Leadership Council and design projects to raise awareness of the issue of childhood hunger in Montana. The projects will be implemented for Fight Childhood Hunger Week, a Global Youth Service Day project, April 13-19, 2015.
"In Montana, one in five children faces food insecurity," Governor Bullock said of the meeting. "Children who face food insecurity are more likely to miss school and less likely to succeed in the classroom. How can we expect children to learn when they don't know where their next meal is coming from?"
"Childhood hunger is an issue where we can make a real impact, "First Lady Lisa Bullock said. "This meeting was inspiring because many of these student leaders see this issue firsthand when they go to school and see friends or classmates who start the day hungry. I am so impressed by these students, and I know they will do amazing things to combat hunger over the year in their schools and communities."
The youth leaders gathered at the State Capitol to share their ideas and experiences with Governor and First Lady Bullock. The retreat also included training in leadership development, the issue of childhood hunger in Montana, regional collaboration, engaging stakeholders in service, and discussions on community solutions to combatting childhood hunger in schools with members of the Montana No Kid Hungry AmeriCorps program.
Members of the council will return to their schools and begin implementing projects culminating into Fight Childhood Hunger Week in mid-April.
Goals of the council are to increase awareness of the issue of childhood hunger, engage youth in service, implement youth voice and youth leadership, and develop school-community partnerships.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Global Youth Service Day is an annual campaign that celebrates and mobilizes the millions of children and youth who improve their communities each day of the year through service and service-learning. Now in its 27th year, Global Youth Service Day is celebrated in over 100 countries.
The Governor's Office of Community Service was selected to serve as a Global Youth Service Day Lead Agency by Youth Service America, the founder and chief convener of Global Youth Service Day. State Farm is the presenting sponsor of Global Youth Service Day in the United States.
The Governor's Office of Community Service expands and promotes national service and volunteerism in Montana and engages citizens in service and emergency preparedness.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Portals/16/docs/2014PressReleases/102714YouthLeadershipHungerRelease.pdf
