Public Statements
Governor Bullock Encourages Montanans to Commemorate American Indian Heritage Day
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Sept. 25, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Steve Bullock is encouraging Montanans across the state to celebrate American Indian Heritage Day tomorrow, Friday, September 26, 2014.
"On this day, we honor the rich culture and heritage, as well as the continuing contributions of American Indians in Montana," Bullock said. "While we reflect on these contributions, we also recommit ourselves to ensuring that this heritage--a heritage that tells the story of 400 generations--is preserved and passed forward to future generations in our state."
American Indian Heritage Day is recognized as a day of celebration of the rich cultural heritage, history and contributions of American Indians. The 2009 Montana Legislature passed a law recognizing the last Friday of every September as American Indian Heritage Day.
Governor Bullock has been a strong advocate for preserving Native American heritage in Montana, as well as expanding educational and economic opportunities for American Indians in the state.
In 2013, Bullock signed into law the Montana Indian Language Preservation Pilot Program. This program was created to support the efforts of Montana tribes to preserve Indian languages in the form of spoken, written word, or sign language and to assist in the preservation and curricular goals of Montana's Indian Education for All Program.
Though his Main Street Montana Project, Bullock is working in conjunction with tribal governments to identify areas where they can collaborate to help grow the economies in their communities, support job creation, and increase wages.
In addition, Bullock signed into law a measure that would wave tuition costs for Native American students with demonstrated financial need. This change helped to open educational doors that were previously out of reach for many students because of financial hardships.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Home/Newsroom.aspx
