Public Statements
Governor Steve Bullock to Lead Montana Business Delegation on Monumental Trade Mission to China
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Sept. 18, 2014
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock will lead a delegation of Montana business owners on a trade mission to China from September 19 through September 28th.
Organized by the Governor's Office, the Montana Department of Commerce, and the U.S. Commercial Service, the mission will be filled with business to business meetings, the goal of which is Montana companies returning home with signed contracts to sell their products in China.
"I am excited about the opportunity to further open Chinese markets to Montana businesses, and am honored to lead this delegation on my administration's first international trade mission," said Bullock. "China is a country with great trade potential for Montana -- perhaps our greatest opportunity for trade growth in the world -- and I'm pleased to join the delegates and help them open the doors for businesses to sign contracts and make investment deals."
Governor Bullock will meet with high-level officials in the Chinese government and will give numerous presentations about Montana to Chinese business, investment, education, and tourism leaders.
"My job on this mission will be focused on helping Montana businesses and this trip will further the goals of my Main Street Montana Project," said Bullock. "I'll personally be speaking to government ministers, education leaders, and potential investors about the ample opportunity that Montana has for deepening our mutually-beneficial relationship with China."
Business and investment meetings, referred to as "Gold Key Meetings," have been arranged by the U.S. Commercial Service for the business owners participating in the trade mission. These meetings are specifically and strategically arranged to match the Montana business with several Chinese companies and investors that are ready to invest in or purchase their exact product.

Source:
