Public Statements
Bullock Announces $750,000 Grant to City of Three Forks for Wastewater System Improvements
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: June 10, 2014
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock and Montana Department of Commerce Director Meg O'Leary today announced a grant of $750,000 to be awarded to the City of Three Forks to implement an advanced wastewater treatment system. The funds are being made available to the City of Three Forks through the Treasure State Endowment Program (TSEP).
"Through this grant, Three Forks will make critical improvements to its wastewater system, ensuring clean water for residents, while at the same time bringing good-paying jobs to the community," said Bullock.
The city's original wastewater treatment system was last updated in 1982. The current treatment facility does not meet DEQ requirements for surface water and ground discharge. Using TSEP and other federal and state funding, the city will construct an aerated lagoon system and wetlands to provide additional treatment and nutrient removal. The proposed improvements will allow the community's system to come into compliance with current permit requirements while providing a foundation for future infrastructure expansions.
"Reliable, long-term business and economic development is founded on solid public infrastructure and institutions," noted Commerce Director Meg O'Leary. "This project allows the Three Forks to make the necessary improvements to their wastewater treatment system and allows for continued commercial and residential growth."
"The City of Three Forks, its residents, and local organizations have an extensive record of meeting our community's needs with local resources and identifying and implementing all available programs," said Three Forks Mayor Steven Hamilton. "We are so very thankful to receive funding from the Treasure State Endowment Program in order to help us move forward with this essential component of our efforts to provide our residents with first-class public facilities."

Source:
