Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces Grant for Wastewater System Improvements in White Sulphur Springs
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: March 20, 2014
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock and Montana Department of Commerce Director Meg O'Leary announced a grant of $460,500 to be awarded through the Treasure State Endowment Program (TSEP) to the City of White Sulphur Springs.
The City of White Sulphur Springs will use the TSEP grant, along with other state and federal grants and loans to install and replace approximately 8,000 lineal feet of sewer mains and service lines, rehabilitate or repair manholes and reconnect sewer service lines. The project will address continued violations of DEQ permitting limits for wastewater contaminants, excessive inflow and infiltration and deteriorating manholes.
"A strong infrastructure is an important part of building a strong economy. This grant will help the City of White Sulphur Springs make necessary updates and repairs to their wastewater infrastructure," said Bullock. "These projects will not only create good-paying jobs in the community, but also ensure that all residents have access to safe and clean water."
"We're thrilled to receive this grant. It will allow our community to make important upgrades to our infrastructure, which will not only serve our residents and businesses today, but will also prepare our community for growth that we expect over the coming years," said Julian Theriault, Mayor of White Sulphur Springs.
The TSEP program is administered by the Community Development Division at the Montana Department of Commerce. The program is funded by interest earnings on the Coal Tax Severance Fund to help local governments, tribal governments, and local water and sewer districts complete public infrastructure improvements, creating jobs and protecting the health and safety of Montana's residents.
For more information regarding the TSEP program, please contact Community Development Division staff at (406) 841-2770 or e-mail DOCTSEP@mt.gov.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/docs/032014_WhiteSulphurWasteWaterGrant.pdf
