Public Statements
Governor and First Lady, Along With Jeff Bridges and Billy Shore of Share Our Strength, to Visit Montana School and After School Program with Focus on Childhood Hunger
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: March 19, 2014
Location: Helena, MT

On Friday, March 21, Governor Steve Bullock and First Lady Lisa Bullock will visit Darby School and the Billings YMCA with actor Jeff Bridges and the founder of Share Our Strength, Billy Shore. During their visits, they will highlight the "after the bell" school breakfast programs that many Montana schools are launching.
The Governor and First Lady have made childhood hunger and food insecurity a top priority of the Bullock administration. Over the last two years, the State of Montana's No Kid Hungry program has tripled the number of afterschool meal programs, resulting in an additional 61,000 meals. The program has also increased participation in summer meal programs, adding two programs and resulting in 50,000 additional meals being served.
In December, the First Lady awarded the Darby School the first ever "School Breakfast Champion Award" for their innovative breakfast program.
This month, Share Our Strength launched the No Kid Hungry "Breakfast After the Bell" initiative, highlighting the creative ways that states are connecting kids to the meals they need. Many states are already demonstrating how the simple act of moving breakfast from the cafeteria into the classroom is providing hope for low-income kids who previously came to school too hungry to learn.
In Montana, 21.8 percent of children face food insecurity.
Jeff Bridges serves as the "national spokesperson" for Share Our Strength, and Billy Shore is the organization's founder and CEO.
Details on the visit to Darby School:
WHO: Governor Steve Bullock, First Lady Lisa Bullock, Jeff Bridges and Share Our Strength Founder Billy Shore
WHAT: Visit Darby School to highlight their "breakfast after the bell" program
WHEN: Friday, March 21, 2014 at 8:15am
WHERE: Darby School, 209 School Drive, Darby, MT
Details on the visit to the Billings YMCA:
WHO: Governor Steve Bullock, First Lady Lisa Bullock, Jeff Bridges and Share Our Strength Founder Billy Shore WHAT: Visit the Billings YMCA to highlight childhood hunger programs
WHEN: Friday, March 21, 2014 at 1:00pm
WHERE: Billings YMCA, 402 N 32nd St., Billings MT

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/docs/031914_NoKidHungryJeffBridgesAdvisory.pdf
