Public Statements
Governor Bullock and Commissioner Bucy Present 2013 Labor Day Report to People of Montana
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Aug. 30, 2013
Location: Helena, MT

Today, Governor Bullock was joined by Commissioner of Labor Pam Bucy to present
the 2013 Labor Day Report to the workers of Montana.
The Labor Day Report, which is presented annually by the Montana Department of Labor &
Industry, provides a detailed look at the economic performance of our state as measured by
key indicators important specifically to Montana workers, such as unemployment and personal
income growth.
"I'm proud that Montana has weathered and recovered from the recession better than the rest of the nation," Bullock said of the report's findings. "Our unemployment rate has consistently outperformed other states, and our workforce shows high rates of educational attainment, income growth, and increasing job opportunities."
Key findings from the report include:
- Montana added 10,700 jobs in 2012, at a growth rate of 2.3 percent - faster than
national job growth, the long-term average growth rate and faster than expectations.
- Private sector wage growth in Montana increased by 4.2 percent in 2012 -- the second
fastest wage growth in the nation.
- 96 percent of Montana's labor force has a high-school diploma, ranking Montana
as the 4th best among states.
"This report makes it clear: Montana is in a position of strength," Bullock said, before
highlighting some of his administration's efforts to build on Montana's economic strength.
Bullock touted historic investments in education in the state, improvements to Montana's
colleges and universities that he signed into law, efforts to streamline government processes
and reduce duplication, and steps that have been taken to address the infrastructure needs of eastern Montana.
The 2013 Labor Day Report is available at:
http://www.ourfactsyourfuture.org/admin/uploadedPublications/5314_LDR-13.pdf

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/docs/083013_Labor_Day_Report.pdf
