Public Statements
Innovate Montana Relaunches as Resource for Entrepreneurs, Innovative Businesses
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: April 11, 2013
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock and the Governor's Office of Economic Development today announced the relaunch of Innovate Montana, a public-private partnership highlighting the advances taking place in Montana's entrepreneurial community.
The partnership has two primary objectives: to connect Montana entrepreneurs and businesses across the state with economic development and networking resources, and to promote the fact that businesses across a broad spectrum of industries are thriving in a place they're proud to call home. The Governor's announcement came on the heels of a Montana Department of Labor and Industry (DLI) report on the state's 5.6% unemployment rate -- an almost complete recovery to peak employment.
"I've been traveling across the state talking to the men and women who are starting sustainable, cutting-edge businesses with a global market, right here in Montana. Innovate Montana is telling that story -- that you don't have to live in New York or San Francisco to run a successful business or have a meaningful career. You can build your dream here, surrounded by the places that millions of tourists make their vacation destinations every year," Governor Bullock said.
Innovate Montana's cornerstone is its website, InnovateMontana.com, an online portal for accessing resources for working, living and growing businesses in Big Sky Country. The website features regularly updated content including Montana Entrepreneur and Innovative Business profiles, a newsfeed of stories showcasing the diversity of economic success and groundbreaking initiatives taking place in the state, and a jobs board featuring quality career opportunities available in communities across the state.
Visitors can also connect to Innovate Montana's active social media community through the website. Innovate currently has over 3,000 community members engaged in discussions about fostering Montana's startup environment and innovation economy on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. A series of videos highlighting the benefits of living and working in Montana can be found on YouTube.
"Montanans have an amazing ability to come together to get a job done," the Governor added, "and I'm looking forward to seeing the collaboration and opportunities for moving our state forward that Innovate Montana will generate."
New success stories featured on InnovateMontana.com include a Montana Entrepreneur profile of Jeremy Kessler, the 26-year-old founder of GalleryCloud, and an Innovative Company profile of Oula Fitness, a Missoula-based fitness industry phenomenon that has found an impressive following in cities across the western U.S.
Anyone interested in learning more about emerging opportunities in Montana's innovation economy should visit www.InnovateMontana.com or contact the Governor's Office of Economic Development at (406) 444-5634.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/docs/Innovate_Montana_Relaunch_Press_Release_041013.pdf
