Public Statements
Governor Bullock Urges Legislators to Pass Fiscally Responsible Budget
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: March 22, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Bullock this morning urged Montana legislators to pass a fiscally responsible budget that makes responsible investments in Montana families and workers, funds essential services, and keeps a healthy rainy day fund.
"The budget that I proposed is a true reflection of Montana values," said Governor Bullock. "Montanans expect our state's leaders to make responsible decisions about our state finances while investing in areas that help grow the state's economy and help businesses create good-paying jobs for our friends, families, and neighbors."
Governor Bullock proposed a budget that ensures government does not spend more than it brings in and maintains a meaningful rainy day fund. More than that, the budget Bullock proposed funds core essential services and makes necessary investments in infrastructure, tax credits for businesses to invest in new equipment and hard-working middle-class Montanans, and education.
Savings, transfers, efficiencies, and cuts were used to make these critical investments and restore our state's rainy day fund. Republican lawmakers have since gutted funding for seniors and cut funding for higher education which would lead to a nearly 25% increase for Montana students.
"Despite revenue challenges, Montana must ensure continuation of core essential services like education, healthcare and public safety," Governor Bullock continued. "I have deep concerns about the budget the Legislature has put together. My friends across the aisle have made some pretty severe, and unnecessary, cuts that will harm Montana families, children, seniors, and college students."
As debate on House Bill 2 continues, Legislators will need to focus on how they're going to fund essential services and still be able to make responsible investments in Montana workers and families and leave the healthy rainy day fund Montanans have come to expect.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/governor-bullock-urges-legislators-to-pass-fiscally-responsible-budget
