Public Statements
Letter to the Honorable Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader and the Honorable Charles E. Schumer, Senate Minority Leader - Bipartisan Solution to Healthcare System
Letter
By: Tom Wolf John Kasich Brian Sandoval Steve Bullock Charlie Baker John Bel Edwards John Hickenlooper
Date: June 16, 2017
Location: Unknown

Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Schumer:
We have watched with great interest the recent debate and House passage of H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act. While we certainly agree that reforms need to be made to our nation's health care system, as Governors from both sides of the political aisle, we feel that true and lasting reforms are best approached by
finding common ground in a bipartisan fashion.
To that end, we remain hopeful that there is an opportunity to craft solutions to these challenges that can find support across party lines, delivering improvements to result in a system that is available and affordable for every American.
We believe that, first and foremost, Congress should focus on improving our nation's private health insurance system. Improvements should be based on a set of guiding principles, included below, which include controlling costs and stabilizing the market, that will positively impact the coverage and care of millions of
Americans, including many who are dealing with mental illness, chronic health problems, and drug addiction.
Unfortunately, H.R. 1628, as passed by the House, does not meet these challenges. It calls into question coverage for the vulnerable and fails to provide the necessary resources to ensure that no one is left out, while shifting significant costs to the states. Medicaid provisions included in this bill are particularly problematic.
Instead, we recommend Congress address factors we can all agree need fixing.
We stand ready to work with you and your colleagues to develop a proposal that is fiscally sound and provides quality, affordable coverage for our most vulnerable citizens.
Sincerely,

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/governor/sites/default/files/documents/bipartisan_governors_letter_to_senate_leadership.pdf
