Public Statements
Governor Steve Bullock Statement on Jobs In Montana Act
Statement
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Jan. 27, 2017
Location: Helena, MT

After the hearing on House Bill 14, the Jobs in Montana Act, concluded this morning, Governor Steve Bullock issued a strong statement to the legislature to pass an infrastructure bill to build Montana communities and put Montanans to work.
"Building Montana's infrastructure is about the future of Montana, and our water and wastewater systems, public schools, roads, bridges, and impacted communities cannot be ignored for another two weeks, two months, or two years," said Governor Bullock. "Montanans cannot be ignored either, and holding up this bill means holding up thousands of good-paying jobs. I'm urging the legislature to pass this bill out of committee and get it to my desk for signature as soon as possible."
Earlier this month, Governor Bullock called on legislators to work across the aisle to pass an infrastructure bill, putting Montana jobs ahead of Montana politics.
"Montanans have waited too long for infrastructure investments. It's time to put Montana jobs ahead of Montana politics and get this done," Governor Bullock said. "I'm hopeful that by working together, we can ensure that Montana's roads, bridges, water and wastewater systems and schools get the critical investments they need and we create thousands of jobs for hard-working Montanans in the process."
The Jobs in Montana Act, proposed by Governor Bullock, is a $292 million investment in infrastructure financed through a responsible mix of cash and bonds. The proposal includes Long-Range Building, the Treasure State Endowment Program, Renewable Resource Grants, Resource Development Grants, Quality Schools program investments, and direct loans and grants to local governments.
Bullock is also proposing a long-term solution to Montana's infrastructure funding through the creation of the Build Montana Trust. The Trust will direct coal severance tax revenues into a new sub-trust within the coal tax trust fund to finance infrastructure investments for future generations of Montanans.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/governor-steve-bullock-statement-on-jobs-in-montana-act
