Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces Funding to Grow Businesses, Train Montanans for 84 New Jobs Across Montana
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: Jan. 17, 2017
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock today announced $411,017 in grants to help businesses in five Montana train Montanans for 84 new jobs.
"Our economy is growing and businesses are expanding. I'm pleased that we can help these Montana businesses build the talented and trained workforce they need," said Governor Bullock. "Continued investment in our state's economy helps businesses in communities all across Montana create more jobs, train new employees, and build opportunities for economic prosperity under the Big Sky."
The funds are being awarded through the Primary Sector Workforce Training Grant (WTG) program.
Full List of Grant Recipients:
Primary Sector Workforce Training Grant (WTG)
The WTG program provides funds to primary sector businesses to assist with the training of net new jobs. More information can be found at www.wtg.mt.gov.
Humic Growth Solutions, Inc. of Shelby received $90,000 of WTG funds to assist with the training of 18 new jobs for Toole County. Humic Growth Solutions is a leading global manufacturer and distributor of humic and fluvic acid products.
First Call Resolution, LLC (dba FCR) of Great Falls received $51,017 of WTG funds to assist with the training of 12 new jobs for Cascade County. First Call Resolution is a provider of outsourced live agent contact center and businesses process solutions to various sectors of the new economy, including high tech, startup, mobile commerce, wireless, telecom, finance and insurance.
Headframe Spirits, Inc. of Butte received $40,000 of WTG funds to assist with the training of 8 new jobs for Silver Bow County. Headframe Spirits is a microdistillery offering vodka, gin, whiskey and bourbon. Headframe Manufacturing engineers and constructs continuous-flow distillation equipment.
Jore Corporation of Ronan received $105,000 of WTG funds to assist with the training of 21 new jobs for Lake County. Jore Corporation is the leading U.S. manufacturer and provider of innovative, high quality power tool accessories to the retail market and engineered drilling solutions to the industrial market.
Advanced Technology Group Inc. (dba ATG) of Missoula received $40,000 of WTG funds to assist with the training of 8 new jobs for Missoula County. Advanced Technology Group is an information technology consulting business that helps clients develop strategy, implement IT solutions and streamline business operations.
Montana Health Solutions, Inc. (dba Consumer Direct Management) of Missoula received $85,000 of WTG funds to assist with training of 17 new jobs for Missoula County. Montana Health Solutions is a Missoula-based family of national companies that provide a wide array of home and community-based services to assist and support older adults and people living with disabilities.
More funding opportunities are still available. The deadline for submitting an application for consideration at the next Grant/Loan Review Committee meeting is March 1. For more information, contact Section Manager Annmarie Robinson by phone at 406.841.2250 or by visiting www.wtg.mt.gov.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/governor-bullock-announces-funding-to-grow-businesses-train-montanans-for-84-new-jobs-across-montana
