Public Statements
Governor Bullock Announces New Proposals to Spur Business Growth and Job Creation in Montana
Press Release
By: Steve Bullock
Date: July 19, 2016
Location: Helena, MT

Governor Steve Bullock announced several new proposals to incentivize the creation of more good paying jobs for Montanans. The Governor discussed the key components of the proposals at Montana businesses in Great Falls (Anderson Steel) and Bozeman (Simms Fishing). Tomorrow he will continue to discuss the proposals in Billings at the VFW Post 6774.
"Montana's economy is strong and growing, and more people are at work than ever before," said Governor Bullock. "These proposals will put make it easier for businesses all across the state to grow and expand and create good-paying jobs, putting more hard-working Montanans to work and further strengthen an already strong economy."

Susan Humble, CEO of Anderson Steel, a Great Falls business seeking to grow and expand their workforce through the use of work-based learning and apprenticeships, joined Governor Bullock for the announcement in Great Falls.
"Anderson Steel is looking to grow but due to the demand of highly-skilled workers in and around Great Falls we have been looking at different models of training," said Humble. "We are working with the Montana Registered Apprenticeship program to identify the competencies our workforce needs to succeed at our company."
Governor Bullock was joined later in the afternoon for a similar announcement in Bozeman at Simms Fishing, accompanied by President and Owner K.C. Walsh.
Governor Bullock's plan rests on three legislative proposals that he will put forth during the 2017 legislative session:
Incentivize businesses to locate in Montana or expand current operations.
Working with the private sector, Governor Bullock identified the opportunity to attract more businesses to Montana and encourage investment by businesses already located here. After cutting the business equipment tax for every Montana business and eliminating it for two-thirds of all Montana businesses, Governor Bullock's proposal will go one step further.
For the first five years of operation, 75 percent of a new or expanding businesses' business equipment tax obligation will be waived. The savings achieved through this proposal will allow businesses to create more jobs and pay higher wages.
Increase career and earning opportunities for Montanans by incentivizing businesses to hire workers and provide on-the-job training.
Montana's economy is growing and private sector demand for highly skilled workers in skilled trades, advanced manufacturing, computer technology, healthcare, and energy indicates that Montana's strong wage growth will continue in the future. Governor Bullock's proposal will provide businesses with the quality workforce they need and ensure good-paying jobs for Montana's working families.
The State of Montana will provide businesses a $1,000 tax credit for every position hired where the worker is offered on-the-job training, boosting Montana workers' earning potential over the lifetime of their career.
Help Veterans return to work.
Montana has the second highest rate of Veterans per capita, second only to Alaska. The state owes its military men and women a debt of gratitude for their service and sacrifice. The training and experience these men and women receive can be invaluable to an employer, and yet we know that Veterans returning from combat often face challenges finding employment. Governor Bullock wants to help our returning veterans find good-paying jobs to support themselves and their families.
The State of Montana will provide businesses a $2,000 tax credit for every Veteran hired where the worker is offered on-the-job training to learn the necessary skills to do the job.
These proposals build on the work of the Bullock Administration to create a climate in Montana that attracts, retains, and grows businesses. Governor Bullock signed into a law a bill that cut business equipment taxes for every Montana business and eliminated the tax for two-thirds of Montana businesses. The strength of Montana's economy was recently highlighted in Montana's Bureau of Business and Economic Research quarterly report. These proposals will build on that record of strength.

Source: http://governor.mt.gov/Newsroom/ArtMID/28487/ArticleID/4477
