Public Statements
The Montana Standard - Bullock: Facts on Montana's Timber Policy
Op-Ed
By: Steve Bullock
Date: July 11, 2016
Location: Unknown

By Steve Bullock
Last fall during Wood Products Week, a young man from the Seeley area approached me. He said his logging company had his and three other families working in the woods that very week because of our focused efforts. Families that wouldn't be getting that income from the forests, had we not been pushing to get more projects on the ground.
People talk about the timber industry in numbers of acres, board feet and stream miles restored. We cannot forget that people do that work -- people who know how to work in the woods, how to sustainably harvest trees, and how to restore our watersheds. Years ago, Colorado lost nearly all of its mills, and with it, the ability to keep Coloradans working in the woods. It also lost the families who know how to do this work. I will not let that happen to Montana.
Working on forestry with industry leaders and Montanans of all stripes has been a key priority. Together we launched the Forests in Focus initiative to encourage healthy forests and put Montanans to work. Through ups and downs in the timber markets, we've managed to keep a lot of our neighbors working in the woods.
When Congress gave states an opportunity to partner in timber and restoration work through the 2014 Farm Bill, I jumped in. No other Governor has done more with the farm bill to deliver healthier forests and more timber to our mills, with 15 projects already, that will produce of 55 million board feet for our mills.
I was also the first governor to sign a Master Stewardship Agreement with the Forest Service, giving our state a stronger hand in making sure projects provide the most value for our watersheds and our mills. For example, a project south of Helena has produced over one million board feet of timber for mills and has put people to work on important restoration projects in the watershed.
While my opponent is hung up on the fact that we haven't signed an agreement to get Good Neighbor Authority projects done, sometimes a handshake will do. We're wrapping up the first project now. My priority was getting logs on trucks, not signing agreements. But, sure, later this month, we'll sign a broad agreement, enabling us to do even more.
Looking beyond federal lands, we've invested over $4 million on restoration projects on state, private and tribal lands. The state has a sustainable method that works for our forests and works for our mills, and I'll continue that work.
I worked with both parties in the legislature to create a $5 million hazardous fuel reduction fund. I've authorized $3.5 million of that to be put to work on the ground. For the remainder, we are monitoring fire season and looking for the most strategic investments to keep mills open and restore our forests.
And we are working with the industry and Washington, D.C. to ensure that Montanans' interests are front and center as a new Canadian Softwood Lumber Agreement is negotiated.
None of this work happened by accident. It came from people with different ideologies working together, project by project and dollar by dollar. As the election season heats up, you may have hoped to hear a fact-driven, engaging debate about how Montana can best support the timber industry. Instead my opponent offers only divisiveness. It's disappointing that Greg Gianforte would aim to tear down Montana's progress on forestry to prop himself up politically, rather than looking at facts and providing solutions.
A simple look at the facts, or a conversation with timber industry leaders, paint a very different picture than the one he is trying to sell. He even falsely said the Montana Wood Products Association endorsed him. They didn't. Facts matter when it comes to tough issues.
At a time when our economy is continuing to diversify, Montana needs a leader with ideas, with a vision, who understands the issues and brings people together. Not someone who misrepresents the facts and misleads Montanans for his own benefit.
These issues can be frustrating and often heart breaking, as we all felt with Weyerhaeuser's recent announcement that it is closing two of its mills in Columbia Falls. But we know that the only way to solve them is by working hard, together.
Montana's natural resources are vital. They make Montana one of the best states in the country to do business, earn a good income, and raise a family. As governor I stand with our families in the timber industry, and I fight for them. And as your governor for the next four years, I'll continue to do so.

Source: http://mtstandard.com/news/opinion/guest/bullock-facts-on-montana-s-timber-policy/article_ebc7638c-5601-5e40-a2c9-5b28cc24bc88.html
