Public Statements
Governor Brown Signs Health Care Special Session Legislation
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: March 1, 2016
Location: Sacramento, CA

Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today announced that he has signed the following bipartisan managed care organization (MCO) financing legislation passed by both houses of the Legislature yesterday:
-AB 133 by the Committee on Budget - Budget Act of 2015.
-ABX2 1 by Assemblymember Tony Thurmond (D-Richmond) - Developmental services: Medi-Cal: funding.
-SBX2 2 by Senator Ed Hernandez (D-West Covina) - Medi-Cal: managed care organization tax.
The legislation will result in a net tax cut, maintain more than $1 billion in critical federal funds, reduce debt by more than $400 million and direct approximately $300 million in new funding to help those with developmental disabilities.
Since 2005, the state's MCO financing structure has generated revenue from Medi-Cal managed care plans. This revenue has been matched by the federal government and used to pay for the Medi-Cal program, including increasing payments to Medi-Cal providers. However, in 2014, the federal government released guidance indicating that this structure would be impermissible under federal Medicaid regulations starting in 2016-17 - a shift that would result in the loss of more than $1 billion in federal funding.
To prevent the loss of federal funds and the resulting cuts to health care services in California, Governor Brown called a special session and the Administration has been working closely with the Legislature and other stakeholders on a solution.
The legislative package signed today meets the federal government's new rules, thereby maintaining federal funds critical to funding health care services. The package also includes a $300 million increase in state funds to boost services for people with developmental disabilities and provides more than $400 million in debt relief by prefunding retiree health benefits and repaying transportation-related loans.

Source:
