Public Statements
Global Climate Pact Continues to Grow
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Jan. 25, 2016
Location: Sacramento, CA

Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today welcomed Massachusetts and regional governments from Colombia - Guainía and Guaviare - and Austria - Lower Austria - as new signatories to the Under 2 MOU climate agreement, the global pact among cities, states and countries to limit the increase in global average temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius.
"The Paris climate agreement was a breakthrough and California was there leading the way. Over 100 states, provinces and regions have now signed on to our Under 2 MOU," said Governor Brown in his State of the State remarks last week. "The goal is to bring per capita greenhouse gases down to two tons per person. This will take decades and vast innovation."
Today's announcement follows a flurry of action at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris, where 58 jurisdictions were added to the coalition. A total of 127 jurisdictions representing 27 countries and six continents have now signed or endorsed the Under 2 MOU. Together, they represent more than 729 million people and $20.4 trillion in GDP, equivalent to more than a quarter of the global economy.
"Massachusetts is proud to join with other states and regions around the world in endorsing the Under 2 MOU as part of our state's commitment to addressing climate change and our support of ongoing global efforts to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions," said Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker. "The MOU complements our pledge to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Massachusetts by 25 percent from 1990 levels by 2020, and will allow us to work with, and learn from, other leaders in combating climate change as we attempt to reduce emissions through the pursuit of a diversified energy portfolio."
Massachusetts is the 10th American state to sign the Under 2 MOU, joining California, Connecticut, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington.

Source:
