Public Statements
Photo Release: Day 5: UN Climate Change Conference: Governor Brown, German Government Announce 43 New Signatories to Under 2 MOU Climate Pact
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Dec. 9, 2015
Location: Paris, France

On his final day at the UN Climate Change Conference, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today joined the Federal Republic of Germany and the German state of Baden-Württemberg to welcome 43 new signatories to the Under 2 MOU climate agreement - bringing the tally to 123 jurisdictions representing more than 720 million people and $19.9 trillion in combined GDP, equivalent to more than a quarter of the global economy.
At a signing ceremony hosted at the German Pavilion in the blue zone at Le Bourget Conference Center, California and the German state of Baden-Württemberg, who together have spearheaded the Under 2 MOU, also announced that The Climate Group will take on the role of secretariat for the pact, helping the signatories share expertise and policy solutions and ensuring that governments deliver on their commitments.
"We are building a global force of cities, states - and even countries - to reduce carbon pollution and protect the well-being of people everywhere," said Governor Brown. "After Paris, the real work begins: to follow through on our commitments."
With today's signing ceremony - the second during the Governor's five days at the UN Climate Change Conference - the number of signatories has nearly doubled since last week.
"Our governments are still sitting at the negotiating table, but civil societies, municipalities and regions in many countries of the world started acting long ago," said Premier of Baden-Württemberg Winfried Kretschmann. "After all, a sustainable change in our way of living and running the economy can only be accomplished at the grassroots level - by those same civil societies, municipalities and regions. And the hearts and minds of all the people in the world are the most essential ingredients."

Source: https://www.gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=19236
