Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Connecticut Signs Onto Climate Agreement Committing to International Carbon Emission Reduction Effort
Statement
By: Jerry Brown, Jr. Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 3, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that as the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference, also known as COP 21, meets in Paris this week, he has committed the State of Connecticut to sign onto the Under 2 MOU agreement - a global compact among cities, states and provinces worldwide to limit the increase in global average temperature to below two degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).
"Connecticut has set an aggressive goal for reducing carbon emissions to combat climate change - and is determined to do so in a manner that improves our environment and air quality while increasing our energy security, building our economy, and creating jobs," said Governor Malloy. "We are making strong progress on all fronts and our state has emerged as a national leader on climate action. Signing the Under 2 MOU aligns us with other jurisdictions who share our deep commitment to protecting the future of our planet and safeguarding the well-being of every one who lives here."
Signatories to the Under 2 MOU agree to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions 80 to 95 percent below 1990 levels or limit to two metric tons CO2-equivalent per capita, by 2050. Connecticut's own statutory climate reduction target requires emissions reductions of at least 80 percent economy-wide by 2050 from 2001 levels.
"We have a profound responsibility to confront climate change, and the Under 2 MOU is a real catalyst," said California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr., who has been an international leader in advocating for the global climate change pact. "Connecticut joins a growing list of states and regions, who are prodding world leaders to take decisive action."
Connecticut expects to achieve deep, economy-wide emissions reductions by 2050 through a comprehensive suite of policies and programs, consistent with the order of emission reductions required by the MOU. These are levels determined necessary to avert the most catastrophic impacts of climate change, such as significant sea level rise that would inundate nations and coastlines around the world, create prolonged pervasive and extreme weather, cause mega droughts, and lead to food scarcity.
Under the 2008 Global Warming Solutions Act, the State of Connecticut is committed to reducing carbon emissions by 80 percent from 2001 levels by 2050. The adopted legislation also contained an interim goal of a 10 percent reduction from 1990 levels by 2020, which Connecticut achieved in 2012 - eight years ahead of schedule. During that same time period, Connecticut's population grew nine percent and the economy grew 41 percent.
"Our state is demonstrating that we can address climate change while growing our economy and creating jobs," Governor Malloy said. "Climate change is happening - there is no mistake about it. It is time to take action to address this challenge in a responsible and thoughtful manner, and by working with others who have signed the Under 2 MOU, Connecticut will continue to take that exact approach."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/12-2015/Gov__Malloy_Announces_Connecticut_Signs_Onto_Climate_Agreement_Committing_to_International_Carbon_Emission_Reduction_Effort/
