Public Statements
Letter to Patrick Morrisey, Attorney General of West Virginia, and Ken Paxton, Attornet General of Texas - Underminding the Clean Power Plan
Letter
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Nov. 25, 2015
Location: Sacramento, CA

Dear Attorneys General Morrisey and Paxton,
It's come to my attention that you penned a letter this week to U.S. Secretary of State John F. Kerry and copied top officials in the United States, French, Chinese, German, Indian, Russian and British governments seeking to undermine climate action here in America and abroad, ahead of the United Nations Conference on Climate Change. The missive argued, in part:
"The President's representations regarding his Administration's CO2 emission reduction plans are based on unilateral executive action that is unlikely to be the law for very long. The Power Plan - which was never voted on by Congress - has been under withering scrutiny from both Republicans and Democrats since it was proposed, and the chorus calling for its overturning grows by the day...We respect the President's power and discretion to negotiate international agreements with foreign nations. But there are significant legal limits on his ability either to carry out the promises he has made in advance of Paris 2015 or to enforce any agreement arising out of the summit."
Frankly, your thoughts here are, at best, legally flimsy. At worst, you're sending a dangerous message to the world: on climate change, do nothing.
I write to you today as a former California attorney general, current governor and fellow citizen of the United States to state unequivocally that you do not speak for me. You do not speak for California. You do not speak for the other cities, counties and states across America that stand firmly with the President and have intervened to defend the Clean Power Plan. And you certainly do not speak for the dozens of regions, states, provinces, cities, and even countries across the globe - with a combined GDP larger than that of the United States - which have joined California this year and committed to taking significant and bold action. We have all done so by signing the Under 2 MOU climate agreement.

Source:
