Public Statements
Governor Brown Joins Fight to Defend President Obama's Clean Power Plan
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Nov. 4, 2015
Location: Sacramento, CA

Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today joined a coalition of 24 other states and municipalities across the country to defend the Obama Administration's Clean Power Plan, which sets nationwide limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. Today's court filings respond to suits that several states, coal companies and industry groups have filed to block the new rules, which are aimed at slowing climate change.
"In the face of overwhelming scientific evidence, reckless politicians and polluters want to gut the president's clean air plans," said Governor Brown. "Today, California and its partners stand together in fighting these pernicious and dangerous lawsuits."
Power plants are the largest emitters of greenhouse gases among stationary sources in the United States, making up roughly one-third of all emissions. The Clean Power Plan sets greenhouse gas emissions guidelines for each state based on current levels of pollution. On average, this plan will help cut pollution from existing power plants nationwide approximately 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.
California is already on track to meet and exceed these new, national reduction targets, having committed to cutting emissions 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030 under an executive order Governor Brown issued earlier this year - the most ambitious target in North America and consistent with California's existing commitment to reduce emissions 80 percent under 1990 levels by 2050.
Today's motions to intervene as respondents in the lawsuits are filed by: California (by and through Governor Brown, the California Air Resources Board and Attorney General Kamala D. Harris), Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and the District of Columbia; the cities of Boulder (CO), Chicago (IL), New York (NY), Philadelphia (PA) and South Miami (FL); as well as Broward County, Florida.
"President Obama's plan to limit harmful emissions from power plants is necessary to preserve our natural resources and protect public health," said Attorney General Harris. "I will vigorously defend these rules on behalf of future generations of Californians."

Source: https://www.gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=19185
