Public Statements
Governor Brown Joins International Coalition Calling For A Price On Carbon
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Oct. 19, 2015
Location: Sacramento, CA

"We can't stand idly by as billions of tons of carbon pollution spew into the atmosphere," said Governor Brown. "California has put a price on carbon, but these efforts mean little unless the world's government and business leaders join us - and go even further."
The "Carbon Pricing Panel" was convened to spur further, faster action ahead of the Paris climate talks and in addition to Governor Brown, includes: German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Chilean President Michelle Bachelet, French President François Hollande, Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn, Philippine President Benigno Aquino III, Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and Rio de Janeiro Mayor Eduardo Paes.
These global leaders are calling on their peers to join them in pricing carbon to steer the global economy towards a low-carbon, productive, competitive future without the dangerous levels of carbon pollution driving climate change.
"There has never been a global movement to put a price on carbon at this level and with this degree of unison. It marks a turning point from the debate on the economic systems needed for low-carbon growth to the implementation of policies and pricing mechanisms to deliver jobs, clean growth and prosperity," said World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim. "The science is clear, the economics compelling and we now see political leadership emerging to take green investment to scale at a speed commensurate with the climate challenge."
Around the world, about 40 nations and 23 cities, states and regions have implemented or are putting a price on carbon with programs and mechanisms covering about 12 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions. The number of implemented or scheduled carbon pricing instruments has nearly doubled since 2012, reaching an aggregate market value of about $50 billion.
"Finance ministers need to think about reforms to fiscal systems in order to raise more revenue from taxes on carbon-intensive fuels and less revenue from other taxes that are detrimental to economic performance, such as taxes on labor and capital. They need to evaluate the carbon tax rates that will help them meet their mitigation pledges for Paris and accompanying measures to help low-income households vulnerable to higher energy prices," said International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde.
Private sector support comes from U.S. Institutional Investor CalPERS, ENGIE of France, Mahindra Group of India and Netherlands-based Royal DSM, who will help link business needs with public policies through the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, an action-based platform that will be officially launched in Paris on November 30, 2015. The panel is also joined in this effort by Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Secretary General Angel Gurría.

Source: https://www.gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=19169
