Public Statements
New York State Signs Under 2 Mou Climate Agreement
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Oct. 8, 2015
Location: Sacramento, CA

As momentum builds ahead of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. announced today that New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has signed the Under 2 MOU, a global pact amongst cities, states and countries to limit the increase in global average temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius - the warming threshold at which scientists say there will likely be catastrophic climate disruptions.
"Across the globe, imaginative leaders of states, provinces and cities are taking decisive action to stem the mounting threats of global warming," said Governor Brown. "Governor Cuomo's participation marks a real milestone in the subnational movement to block dangerous climate change."
The agreement, spearheaded by Governor Brown, has now been signed or endorsed by 43 jurisdictions representing 19 countries and five continents, collectively representing more than $13.6 trillion in GDP and 474 million people. If the signatories represented a single country, it would be the second largest economy in the world behind only the United States.
"Climate change is an issue of society's sustainability - and to deny that climate change is real is to deny reason," said Governor Cuomo. "Today, New York is stepping up along with California and 41 other signatories. We are demonstrating the leadership and focus that this issue demands. We are joining together and committing ourselves to tackling climate change and showing the nation what is possible. Now it is up to world leaders to follow suit."
Under the agreement, signatories commit to either reduce greenhouse gas emissions 80 to 95 percent below 1990 levels by 2050 or achieve a per capita annual emission target of less than 2 metric tons by 2050. These targets allow each individual government to tailor emission reduction plans to fit regional needs.

Source: https://www.gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=19157
