Public Statements
CNN "The Situation Room"- Transcript: Presidential Election 2016
Interview
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Sept. 16, 2015
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
GOV. JERRY BROWN (D), CALIFORNIA: Well, interesting, although not particularly informative. What I'll look for, number one, authenticity. But number two, a sense of gravity about what faces America and faces the world. This is a campaign for president, you know, not a governor or a
senator or a mayor. And the issues, whether it'd be climate change, the buildup of nuclear arsenals in many countries or the proliferation that is still possible, or financial system is leaving the average American 7 percent poorer than he or she was seven years ago.
We got to get to the big issues, not the hot button stuff or the political cliches as is represented by Congress where they all vote against the Iranian deal even though Germany and France and China and Russia are all together with this on that whole embargo, and therefore have to come along with what the president's saying. So I'm going to look for someone who can stand out from kind of the Republican blather that I don't think is impressing the undecided or the swing voters that are out there in the country.
[17:50:06] BLITZER: Governor Brown, you wrote a letter to Republican presidential candidate Dr. Ben Carson who is now second in the national polls among Republicans. You tweeted a picture of it saying, and I'm reading it now, to climate science denier at real Ben Carson, "Climate change is much bigger than partisan politics."
Did you get a response from him?
BROWN: Well, I heard he made some comment, not to me but to the press and he continues in his denial. Climate change is real. The fire season in California is expanding. We know it's intensified by the climate change, but the science about rising sea levels, disruptive storms, this stuff is global. It's a profound threat to the long-term wellbeing of the world and the president -- the next president has to stand up and really take some leadership.
So I think Mr. Carson totally failed the fundamental test of leadership and that is to speak sensibly on big issues.
BLITZER: California, as you point out, facing harsh wildfires right now. Hundreds of homes already have been burned. Is there any sense these fires are easing right now? What's the impact on your state?
BROWN: Fires are easing at this moment, but that doesn't give us any confidence for a couple of days from now because the heat is going to turn up. We are experiencing elevated temperatures, the hottest since records were kept, and then when you combine that with a drought, things were so dry that the fire spreads, goes in every direction and it's more threatening than anything else we've ever seen before and at the national level, I was just speaking to the president a few moments ago, and their funding is running short.
So the Congress has to take seriously these threats, both the flooding but certainly the fires that are costing a billion dollars a year and probably going to cost more. So we've got a lot to do and these presidential candidates ought to face that.
BLITZER: You say you just spoke with the president of the United States. He gave you a commitment how much he's going to help California right now deal with these wildfires? BROWN: Well, the president and the federal government, of
course, has been helping with fire engines, with hand crews, helicopters, planes. We got 15,000 people fighting these fires. We're not anywhere near the end of fire season. So the president has certainly been there and I believe he'll be there when we need him over the next couple of months and wherever else in the country because the climate is changing.
We have these big threats and we've got to rise up to the occasion of these significant issues that affect our quality of life. I do hope, getting back to our event tonight, that these candidates can get beyond some of the Republican bromines and talk to where real people are and what they are concerned about going forward.
BLITZER: Have you endorsed any of the Democratic presidential candidates yet like Hillary Clinton for example?
BROWN: No, I haven't endorsed anybody. I will say, though, about the Clintons with some experience, they are very formidable and I would not underestimate Hillary Clinton.
BLITZER: What are you waiting for? What do you want to see, Joe Biden jump into the race?
BROWN: Well, I'm not as hasty as I was as a younger candidate or a younger elected official, so I'm enjoying the luxury of being on the sidelines, watching these shows tonight, watching the parade, and where I can be helpful I'll jump in at the appropriate time.
BLITZER: Well, would you like to see Vice President Joe Biden, a man you know well for many years, would you like to see him become a Democratic presidential candidate?
BROWN: Well, somebody asked me that question on another show and I kind of muse on what I would do if I were Joe Biden. So since I'm not, I'm not going to give any advice tonight.
BLITZER: You don't have to give advice but do you think he will run?
BROWN: I can't tell. That show on "Colbert" seemed to indicate he's definitely pondering it but with some reservation, so, you know, we don't -- we don't know the future. I don't want to prognosticate. I would say, though, it early, as you said earlier. This is at the end of the game and you can have a lot of big surprises, a lot of action between now and the first Iowa caucus and the New Hampshire primary.
Lots going to happen in the Republican primary and I think some things could happen on the Democratic side, as well.
BLITZER: I think you're right, lots could happen. What about Donald Trump? Do you think he's qualified to be commander-in-chief?
BROWN: Well, I would have to say based on what he said so far, I would not recommend him as our commander-in-chief. Might be an interesting time --
(CROSSTALK)
[17:55:04] BLITZER: You know him. You've met him -- I assume you have met him over the years, right?
BROWN: I have met him, yes. Definitely --
BLITZER: What do you think?
BROWN: Well, I think he has certain talents that are very useful in campaigns, but as a man to lead our country, the full spectrum of a polarized nation, I would think he's a little too hot for the kind of role that the president of the United States has to play in the next four years.
BLITZER: Governor Jerry Brown, the governor of California. Good luck with the fires. Good luck with the other problems you have here in California.
Governor Brown, thanks very much for joining us.
BROWN: Good, and we're glad you're out here in our state.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1509/16/sitroom.01.html
