Public Statements
Governor Brown Issues Statement on President Obama's Action to Boost Household Energy Efficiency
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Aug. 24, 2015
Location: Sacramento, CA

Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today issued the following statement after President Barack Obama announced executive action to accelerate the nation's transition to cleaner energy sources and more energy-efficient households:
"Today, President Obama is coming to town; he's proposing billions of dollars in renewable investments and that's important," said Governor Brown. "This is another step forward for California homeowners who want renewable energy for their homes."
Governor Brown's statement follows remarks earlier today at the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners' 41st General Convention in Las Vegas. President Obama is speaking this evening at the National Clean Energy Summit in Las Vegas, Nevada after announcing executive action and private sector commitment to developing technology that helps households save on energy bills and transition to cleaner energy sources. This includes measures to help homeowners invest in clean energy and states to further develop solar technologies.
Today's action from the White House and the Federal Housing Administration on Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) financing helps homeowners pay for renewable energy and energy and water efficiency upgrades. It builds on California's PACE reserve fund, which supports mortgage lending with safeguards against default on a property with a PACE lien.
Since the 1970s, California's building and appliance efficiency standards have saved Californians nearly $90 billion on their utility bills. Nationwide, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Energy Star Program saves consumers more than $34 billion per year.
Governor Brown is committed to making solar power systems and energy and water efficiency retrofits more affordable and accessible for California homeowners. Earlier this year Governor Brown and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro launched the California Multifamily Property-Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) Pilot, which expands financing for clean energy technologies to certain commercial multifamily properties. Last year Governor Brown also bolstered the PACE program by creating a $10 million mortgage loss reserve program. Along with the Obama Administration and bipartisan support in Congress, Governor Brown has continued to support PACE financing for clean energy and energy and water efficient upgrades for California homeowners. As Attorney General, Brown sued to block federal rules that would have stymied the PACE program.

Source:
