Public Statements
Governor Brown, International Leaders Form Historic Partnership to Fight Climate Change
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: May 19, 2015
Location: Sacramento, CA

California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today signed a first-of-its-kind agreement with international leaders from 11 other states and provinces, collectively representing more than $4.5 trillion in GDP and 100 million people, to limit the increase in global average temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius - the warming threshold at which scientists say there will likely be catastrophic climate disruptions.
The dozen-state agreement, called the "Under 2 MOU," provides a template for the world's nations to follow as work continues toward an international agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions ahead of this year's United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris.
"This global challenge requires bold action on the part of governments everywhere," said Governor Brown. "It's time to be decisive. It's time to act."
The 12 founding signatories to the agreement span seven countries in both advanced and developing economies on three continents and would collectively constitute the fourth largest economic entity in the world by GDP. The signatories include: California, USA; Acre, Brazil; Baden-Württemberg, Germany; Baja California, Mexico; Catalonia, Spain; Jalisco, Mexico; and Ontario, Canada, who participated in today's signing ceremony in Sacramento, as well as; British Columbia, Canada; Oregon, USA; Vermont, USA; Washington, USA; and Wales, UK.
Under today's agreement, the signatories commit to either reduce greenhouse gas emissions 80 to 95 percent below 1990 levels by 2050 or achieve a per capita annual emission target of less than 2 metric tons by 2050. These targets allow each individual government to tailor emission reduction plans to fit regional needs.
The pact seeks to enhance cooperation to achieve these goals through a range of activities, including:
- Developing mid-term targets needed to support long-term reduction goals;
- Sharing technology, scientific research and best practices to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy;
- Collaborating to expand the use of zero-emission vehicles;
- Taking steps to ensure consistent monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions;
- Improving air quality by reducing short-lived climate pollutants such as black carbon and methane; and
- Assessing the projected impacts of climate change on communities.
The agreement's signatories have also committed to recruiting additional global partners ahead of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris this December. To that end, California Air Resources Board Chair Mary Nichols hosted a reception with European partners today at the Business and Climate Summit in Paris organized by the French chapters of the United Nations Global Compact.
Other governments have already indicated an interest in signing onto the agreement in the months ahead.
"The commitments taken today are an important step of the mobilisation of non-state actors towards COP21, and I am glad to be part of it. The Rhône-Alpes Region will be honored to formally sign the MoU during the World Summit Climate and Territories, which will take place in Lyon on 1&2 July, and will bring together a large number of subnational governments and all international networks represented in the UN Major Groups to come forward with their commitments and proposals for COP21," said Rhône-Alpes Regional Council President Jean-Jack Queyranne.

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=18964
