Public Statements
Governor Brown Signs Legislation to Ban Single-Use Plastic Bags
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Sept. 30, 2014
Location: Sacramento, CA

Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today signed the nation's first statewide ban on single-use plastic bags -- SB 270 -- aligning state law with ordinances passed by a growing number of local governments in California to reduce plastic waste.
"This bill is a step in the right direction -- it reduces the torrent of plastic polluting our beaches, parks and even the vast ocean itself," said Governor Brown. "We're the first to ban these bags, and we won't be the last."
The legislation, authored by Senator Alex Padilla (D-Pacoima), prohibits grocery stores and pharmacies from distributing single-use plastic bags after July 2015 and enacts the same ban for convenience stores and liquor stores the following year. It will also provide up to $2 million in competitive loans -- administered by CalRecycle -- to businesses transitioning to the manufacture of reusable bags.
Thus far, over 120 local governments in California have passed ordinances banning single-use bags in some fashion, with widespread support from community and environmental groups. SB 270 is supported by many of these same groups, along with local governments, businesses and labor organizations.
"I applaud Governor Brown for signing SB 270 into law. He continues to lead our state forward with a commitment to sustainability. A throw-away society is not sustainable. This new law will greatly reduce the flow of billions of single-use plastic bags that litter our communities and harm our environment each year. Moving from single-use plastic bags to reusable bags is common sense. Governor Brown's signature reflects our commitment to protect the environment and reduce government costs," said Senator Padilla.
"The California coast is a national treasure and a calling card for the world, helping us attract visitors and business from around the globe. Removing the harmful blight of single-use plastic bags, especially along our coastline and waterways, helps ensure the kind of clean and healthy environment we need to have a stronger economy and a brighter future," said Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins.

Source:
