Public Statements
Governor Brown Addresses Global Leaders at United Nations Climate Summit
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Sept. 23, 2014
Location: New York, NY

Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today joined world leaders, including former Vice President Al Gore, Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon and World Bank President Jim Yong Kim, at the United Nations Climate Summit in New York, where he delivered remarks on California's global leadership in combating climate change.
"I believe that from the bottom up, we can make real impact and we need to join together," said Governor Brown. "We're signing MOUs with Quebec and British Columbia, with Mexico, with states in China and wherever we can find partners, because we know we have to do it all."
The United Nations Climate Summit convened more than 120 heads of state and government to announce their vision and commitment to reaching a universal and meaningful climate agreement in 2015.
Governor Brown delivered remarks during the Summit's "Private Sector Forum," which gathered national leaders and CEOs to discuss the issue of pricing carbon and emissions. Other speakers included former Vice President Gore, Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban, President of Peru Ollanta Humala, President of France François Hollande, World Economic Forum founder Klaus Schwab and World Business Council for Sustainable Development President Peter Bakker.
He later spoke at a "Multilateral and Multi-Stakeholder Action Announcements" panel focused on the importance of local action to combat climate change. The panel included remarks from Counselor to President Obama John Podesta and the UN Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Cities and Climate Change Michael Bloomberg.
Ahead of the Summit, Governor Brown joined other West Coast leaders in calling for action on climate change. He also signed legislation to continue the state's push to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase solar energy use, prepare for the effects of climate change and strengthen California's best-in-the-nation electric vehicle market.

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=18724
