Public Statements
Governor Brown to Speak at United Nations Climate Summit
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Sept. 21, 2014
Location: Sacramento, CA

Reaffirming California's position as a global leader in the fight against climate change, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today announced that he will speak at the United Nations Climate Summit in New York on Tuesday and signed legislation to continue the state's push to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and climate pollutants, prepare for rising sea levels and increase solar energy use.
"We are carrying on because we know in California that carbon pollution kills, it undermines our environment, and, long-term, it's an economic loser," said Governor Brown in a video message ahead of the Summit. "We face an existential challenge with the changes in our climate. The time to act is now. The place to look is California."
The United Nations Climate Summit will bring together more than 120 heads of state and government to announce their vision and commitment for reaching a universal and meaningful climate agreement in 2015, as well as make announcements on actions that will reduce emissions, enhance resilience to climate change and mobilize financing for climate action. The Summit is being held 14 months before countries meet in Paris to reach a global climate agreement. Governor Brown will participate in the following Summit events:
United Nations Private Sector Forum - Carbon Pricing
When: Tuesday, September 23, 2014, 1:30-3:15 p.m.
Where: United Nations Headquarters, Delegates Dining Room, New York, NY 10017
United Nations Multilateral and Multi-Stakeholder Action Announcements - Cities Panel
When: Tuesday, September 23, 2014, 5:30-6:30 p.m.
Where: United Nations Headquarters, Trusteeship Council Chamber, New York, NY 10017
The "Private Sector Forum" will bring together national leaders and business CEOs to discuss the issue of pricing carbon and emissions, and to announce business actions on climate change. The "United Nations Multilateral and Multi-Stakeholder Action Announcements" include eight panels - cities, agriculture, energy, finance, forests, industry, resilience and transport - where government, business and civil society leaders will gather to announce climate initiatives in specific areas where action is most needed.
**NOTE: Media accreditation to attend the Summit has closed. For additional information, click here or visit: http://www.un.org/climatechange/summit/. All sessions will be webcast at: http://webtv.un.org.
In addition to confirming his participation in the United Nations Climate Summit, Governor Brown today announced that he has signed the following bills to help combat climate change:
-AB 2188 by Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi (D-Torrance) - Solar energy: permits.
-AB 2516 by Assemblymember Richard Gordon (D-Redwood City) - Sea level rise planning: database.
-SB 605 by Senator Ricardo Lara (D-Bell Gardens) - Short-lived climate pollutants.
-SB 1204 by Senator Ricardo Lara (D-Bell Gardens) - California Clean Truck, Bus, and Off-Road Vehicle and Equipment Technology Program.
-SB 1371 by Senator Mark Leno (D-San Francisco) - Natural gas: leakage abatement.
For full text of the bills, visit: http://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov.
Over the past year, Governor Brown has signed accords with leaders from Mexico, China, Canada, Japan, Israel and Peru to fight climate change, strengthen California's economic ties and expand cooperation on promising research. In February, Governor Brown established the California International Trade and Investment Advisory Council to help expand international business opportunities for California companies and appointed former U.S. Ambassador to Hungary Eleni Kounalakis as chair.
Earlier today, Governor Brown signed half a dozen bills to further strengthen California's best-in-the-nation electric vehicle market.

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=18722
