Public Statements
Governor Brown Signs Legislation to Bolster State's Film and Television Industry, Put Californians to Work
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Sept. 18, 2014
Location: Los Angeles, CA

Taking action to keep cameras rolling in California, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today joined legislative leaders and dozens of film and television workers in Hollywood to sign bipartisan legislation - AB 1839 by Assemblymembers Mike Gatto (D-Los Angeles) and Raul J. Bocanegra (D-Los Angeles) - that expands, extends and improves the state's Film and Television Tax Credit Program.
"Today, we remind the world that the Golden State is the home of the silver screen," said Governor Brown. "This bill helps thousands of Californians - from stage hands and set designers to electricians and delivery drivers."
AB 1839 will increase the state's film and television tax credit to $330 million a year for five years beginning with fiscal year 2015-16 and replace the current flawed and arbitrary lottery system with a more competitive and accountable system that ranks applicants according to net new jobs created and overall positive economic impacts for the entire state.
The legislation received broad support from both republican and democratic lawmakers.
"This legislation will keep the cameras rolling in California and strengthen our position as the entertainment Capital of the world. We're bringing Californians who are working away from their families in Georgia and Louisiana back to California where they belong," said Senate President pro Tem-elect Kevin de León.
"It's the 'behind the scenes' workers who bring the imagination and creativity to life that keep this industry moving, and the businesses that serve the production sites and teams - their jobs were on the line. We need to keep these jobs in California and that's why I was proud to co-author AB 1839. It allows us to compete with other states and nations who are clamoring for that big movie business," said Senate Republican Leader Bob Huff
"I am pleased that Governor Brown today signed this important legislation that will make California more competitive with other states and other countries for film and television production. More productions being filmed in California mean more jobs being created, more economic activity being generated and more tax revenue coming into the state. This bipartisan legislation is an example of what is possible when Republicans and Democrats work together to do what's best for our state and our economy," said Assembly Republican Leader Connie Conway.
"Extending the Film Tax Credit keep cameras rolling in California, keeps costumers designing, craft services catering, and carpenters hammering. This is the 75th anniversary of what many consider to be Hollywood's greatest year. Governor Brown signing this legislation to extend the film tax credit to keep production and jobs in California is the perfect anniversary present," said Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins.
"I've heard from so many people during my time in office, who have told me about their families being torn apart because of production fleeing the state, and how this program will give stability to families, certainty to small businesses, and help our communities thrive. I am grateful for all the help from those involved in this legislation, particularly my co-author Assemblymember Bocanegra, Governor Brown, Speaker Atkins, Senate pro Tem Kevin de León, and all of the hardworking people who stood up for middle-class jobs," said Assemblymember Gatto.
"Today we've hit a home run for California's signature industry - the film and television industry. This will help to stem the tide of runaway production and put tens of thousands of Californians back to work," said Assemblymember Bocanegra.
AB 1839 was also backed by a broad coalition of leaders representing labor and the film and television industry.
"The MPAA and the studios we represent appreciate the Governor's leadership in growing California's motion picture and television incentive to bring good middle class jobs to the state, and we thank him for his recognition of the importance of film and TV production to the vitality of California's economy," said Motion Picture Association of America Chairman and CEO Chris Dodd.
"With the Governor's signature on AB 1839 today, we ensure that film and television production will continue to be a wellspring of middle-class jobs that fuel our economy and boost our communities. California's unions are proud to stand with the Governor in support of our state's iconic film and television industry and the hundreds of thousands of good California jobs it sustains," said California Labor Federation Executive Secretary-Treasurer Art Pulaski.
"Over the last 20 years, our California has lost much of its film and television production work, and with it the solid technical and creative jobs that our industry provides. The legislation is a catalyst to grow those positions for the thousands of current and future crew members who want to work here and for the myriad small businesses that supply and support our industry every day," said Warner Bros. Pictures President of Worldwide Physical Production Steve Papazian.

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=18709
