Public Statements
Brown Discusses Climate Action with German Federal Minister for the Environment
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: June 9, 2017
Location: San Francisco, CA

Within hours of expanding California's climate partnership with China and other world leaders in Beijing, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. met with German Federal Minister for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety Barbara Hendricks to further California's leadership on climate change in the wake of the U.S federal government's retreat.
"China and Germany - two of the most powerful countries in the world - are working with California and with other states to deal with climate change," said Governor Brown. "The current withdrawal from the Paris Accord by the Washington administration is being overcome and countermanded by people throughout the whole world."
"The United States' withdrawal from the Paris Agreement underscores the significance of subnational actors in particular in our joint efforts to achieve the overall objective and goals," said Minister Hendricks. "Together with California, Germany will provide strong leadership for the Under2 Coalition in the COP23 in Bonn this November."
California and Germany have a strong record of working together to take action on climate change. In 2015, California and the German state of Baden-Württemberg formed the Under2 Coalition - an international pact among cities, states and countries to limit the increase in global average temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius, the level of potentially catastrophic consequences - to help galvanize subnational action in the lead up to COP21. The Federal Republic of Germany endorsed the Under2 MOU in 2015 and the German states of Bavaria, Hesse, North Rhine-Westphalia, Schleswig-Holstein and Thuringia have also joined the coalition.
The Under2 Coalition now includes 175 jurisdictions on six continents collectively representing more than 35 countries, 1.2 billion people and $28.8 trillion GDP - equivalent to over 16 percent of the global population and over 39 percent of the global economy. Eighteen U.S. jurisdictions have joined the coalition, representing 89 million people and 28 percent of the U.S. population.



Source:
