Public Statements
Letter to Barack Obama, President of the United States - Requesting Presidential Major Disaster Declaration
Letter
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Sept. 2, 2014
Location: Sacramento, CA

September 2, 2014
The President
The White House
Washington, DC 20500
Dear Mr. President:
Under the provisions of Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. ยง 5121-5207 (Stafford Act), and implemented by Title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations ยง 206.36, I request that you declare a major disaster for the State of California as a result of the South Napa Earthquake that affected Napa, Solano, and Sonoma Counties.
The earthquake occurred on Sunday, August 24, 2014, at 3:20 a.m. Pacific Standard Time. The earthquake struck three miles northwest of the City of American Canyon in Napa County, California and measured 6.0 on the Richter magnitude scale. The United States Geological Survey suspects that the earthquake struck along the West Napa Fault. The shaking intensity in the region was VII on the Modified Mercalli Scale. To date, the region has experienced over 120 aftershocks with magnitudes up to 3.9 on the Richter scale. Although no deaths were reported, more than 280 people sustained injuries and three people remain in critical condition.
Pursuant to Section 8625 of the California Government Code, I declared a State of Emergency for Napa, Solano, and Sonoma Counties on August 24, 2014. Later that day, Napa County, Solano County, and the cities of Napa and Vallejo activated their emergency operations centers and proclaimed local emergencies. On August 26, 2014, the City of American Canyon also proclaimed a local emergency. On August 30, 2014, Sonoma County proclaimed a local emergency as well.
My administration immediately deployed all necessary state and local government emergency mutual aid, including firefighting, law enforcement, medical, and public health emergency responders. The Governor's Office of Emergency Services activated the State Operations Center, our coastal Regional Emergency Operations Center, and implemented the State's Emergency Operations Plan. Today, I issued Executive Order B-24-14 authorizing financial assistance through the California Disaster Assistance Act to local agencies and certain nonprofit organizations.
Economic impacts of this event will be extensive. The earthquake caused significant damage throughout the region. While significant damage resulted from this event, including $87 million in costs that is eligible for federal reimbursement, the final cost estimates are unknown at this time. The damage to buildings, particularly in historic downtown Napa, are affecting tourism and impacting local businesses. Because many of the buildings damaged by this earthquake have historic significance, the debris is being contained in place in order to ensure it is available for the restoration of those historic facilities. Repairing and reconstructing these structures will require careful design and construction methods not typical of more modern structures. In addition, all rebuilding must adhere to the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Structures.
Critical infrastructure has also been damaged including power lines, gas lines, and water mains. The control tower at the Napa County Airport was also damaged, which required the use of a Federal Aviation Administration temporary tower. Four emergency shelters were opened in Napa and Solano Counties, two of which remain open today and are housing 53 individuals. The American Red Cross, the Salvation Army, and Voluntary Organizations Active in Disaster continue to provide support to the community, and are supplying food and drinking water to more than 2,000 individuals.
While joint federal, state, and local Preliminary Damage Assessments were conducted in Napa, Solano, and Sonoma Counties for both individual and public assistance programs, it is extremely common for earthquakes to cause hidden damage that is not immediately apparent. Limited access to certain damaged infrastructure and buildings means that our joint assessment teams were only able to see part of the damage caused by the earthquake. Once jurisdictions are able to conduct detailed structural investigations of buildings, including assessing the viability of underground water and wastewater lines, the amount of actual damages is expected to increase.
This earthquake followed a series of severe fires this spring and summer and occurred amidst a severe statewide drought, all of which have severely impacted California's resources. In the past 12 months, 17 major fires have burned in California. One fire received a major disaster declaration, 15 fires received Fire Management Assistance Grants, and one fire received a state level disaster declaration. In addition, the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection reports more than 4,200 fire starts this year, requiring several hundred million dollars in fire suppression costs to date for 2014. California is also experiencing a historic drought currently in its third year, and state government has authorized $678 million dollars in emergency funding to state agencies and departments for drought response and relief efforts.
Individual Assistance
The California Department of Insurance indicates that less than five percent of homeowners and businesses in the region have earthquake insurance. A breakdown of Individual Assistance Program demographics is presented directly below:
Average of Persons Below Poverty Level, Median Household Income, Percent Elderly (over 65 yrs of age), Percent Disabled, Percent Pre-Disaster Unemployment
National Average 14.9% $53,046 13.1% 12.2% 9.3%
State Average 15.3% $61,400 11.5% 10.2% 11%
Napa 10% $69,571 16.5% 17.3% 5%
Solano 11.9% $69,006 13% 9.4% 7%
Sonoma 11.5% $63,565 16% 10.5% 5.3%
This data has been compiled from the following sources: The 2010 Census, The American Community Survey, Rural Research and Training Institute on Disabilities in, Rural Communities, University of Montana, State and County Quickfacts, U.S. Census, U.S. Bureau Labor Statistics, and Pascenter.org.
Public Assistance
The earthquake caused major destruction to historic and essential facilities including, roads, bridges, and utilities. The preliminary damage assessment places total earthquake costs eligible for federal reimbursement above $87 million. The majority of these costs include emergency response measures and repair of roads and bridges, public buildings, and public utilities. Napa County experienced damage that equates to a per capita impact of $598.48, while Solano County experienced a per capita impact of $11.90, both exceeding the federal $3.50 per capita threshold.
The County of Napa and the City of Napa have earthquake insurance for some of their public infrastructure and buildings, and all potential insurance proceeds have been deducted from the overall damage estimate. The County of Solano is still evaluating their insurance coverage; however, we believe it is negligible.
This incident is of such severity and magnitude that an effective response is beyond the capabilities of the state and affected local governments, and supplemental federal assistance is necessary. I request: Individual Assistance for Napa, Solano, and Sonoma Counties (including the Individuals and Households Program, Disaster Case Management, Disaster Unemployment Assistance, Crisis Counseling and Disaster Legal Services); Public Assistance for Napa and Solano Counties (Categories A-G); Hazard Mitigation statewide; and any other Stafford Act disaster assistance programs that may be appropriate for the three declared counties. I am also requesting U.S. Small Business Administration disaster loans and funds from the U.S. Department of Agriculture Emergency Loan Program.
I certify that for this major disaster the State and local governments will assume all applicable non-federal shared costs as required by the Stafford Act. I have designated the Director of the Governor's Office of Emergency Services, Mark Ghilarducci, as the State Coordinating Officer for this request. Mr. Ghilarducci will work with FEMA in order to continue to assess the damage from this earthquake and can provide more information or justification for this request on my behalf.
Sincerely,
Edmund G. Brown Jr.

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=18679
