Public Statements
Governor Brown Welcomes Mexico's President Enrique Pena Nieto to California
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Aug. 25, 2014
Location: Los Angeles, CA

Less than a month after meeting with Mexico's President Enrique Peña Nieto during California's Trade and Investment Mission to Mexico, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today welcomed the President of Mexico to California.
"We can come together in many ways, we can deal with climate change - there's no better place for sun and wind and geothermal than Mexico and California," said Governor Brown in remarks at today's event in Los Angeles, attended by hundreds of Mexican and Mexican-American leaders. "In so many ways, together we advance."
Tomorrow, Governor Brown will host a luncheon with First Lady Anne Gust Brown in Sacramento honoring President Peña Nieto.
President Peña Nieto's trip to California follows the invitation Governor Brown extended when Mexico's Foreign Affairs Secretary Jose Antonio Meade Kuribreña visited Sacramento last month. The invitation was accepted the following week when Governor Brown met with President Peña Nieto in Mexico City during the Governor's Trade and Investment Mission to Mexico.
Agreements with top government officials to expand collaboration between California and Mexico on climate change, higher education, energy and trade were also signed during the Trade and Investment Mission. Additionally, during the trip Governor Brown convened Mexican and Central American religious and diplomatic leaders to discuss immigration and signed a letter of intent with Mexico's Secretary of Labor and Social Welfare to help protect the rights of Mexican migrant workers in California.
Since taking office Governor Brown has signed the Dream Act, which allows top students who are on the path to citizenship to apply for college financial aid, AB 60, which extends the legal right to drive on the state's roadways to millions more Californians and a number of other bills to enhance school, workplace and civil protections for California's hardworking immigrants. Yesterday, Governor Brown, Attorney General Kamala D. Harris and legislative leaders announced legislation to provide legal services to unaccompanied minors arriving in California from Central America.

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=18667
