Public Statements
California and Mexico Sign Pact to Strengthen Economic Ties
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: July 30, 2014
Location: Mexico City, Mexico

On the final day of the California Trade and Investment Mission to Mexico, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. signed a broad agreement with Mexico's Ministry of Economy to expand trade between businesses in Mexico and California.
"For California business, Mexico represents incredible opportunity," said Governor Brown. "And with today's agreement, we lay the foundation for job-creating investments that will benefit the people of California and Mexico."
The agreement will boost economic, cultural and academic cooperation between California and Mexico, with an emphasis on advanced manufacturing, alternative energy, health and biotechnology, education, agricultural technology and tourism.
The agreement will also enable Mexican companies to access California's Innovation Hubs (iHUB), an innovation network that includes 16 clusters of research parks, technology incubators, universities and federal laboratories along with economic development organizations, business groups and venture capital funds.
Today's agreement follows Governor Brown's meetings with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto, Secretary of Foreign Affairs José Antonio Meade Kuribreña, Governor of the State of Mexico Eruviel Ávila, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico E. Anthony Wayne, Secretary of Energy Pedro Joaquín Coldwell and President of the Senate Raúl Cervantes Andrade. The Governor has also signed agreements with Mexican officials on education, renewable energy and to reduce greenhouse gases.
The Governor first announced the Trade and Investment Mission to Mexico in his 2014 State of the State address and met with Mexican Consuls General from cities across California in March. Last week, ahead of the trip, Governor Brown met with Mexico's Secretary of Foreign Affairs José Antonio Meade Kuribreña in Sacramento and invited Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto to meet later this year in California.

Source:
