Public Statements
Updated: California Governor to Kick Off Trade and Investment Mission to Mexico on Monday
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: July 27, 2014
Location: Sacramento, CA

California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. will travel to Mexico City this week to meet with Mexican government and business leaders, help boost bilateral trade and investment opportunities between the two neighbors and expand environmental and economic cooperation.
The Governor first announced the Trade and Investment Mission to Mexico in his 2014 State of the State address and met with Mexican Consuls General from cities across California in March. Last week, ahead of the trip, Governor Brown met with Mexico's Secretary of Foreign Affairs José Antonio Meade Kuribreña in Sacramento and invited Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto to meet later this year in California.
On the heels of last week's diplomatic exchange, Governor Brown announced today that he will meet privately with Secretary Meade and President Peña Nieto on Monday and with Archbishop of Los Angeles José Horacio Gomez and more than a dozen other religious and diplomatic leaders from Central America on Tuesday to discuss immigration. Media availabilities will follow the meeting with Secretary Meade on Monday and the meeting with religious and diplomatic officials on Tuesday.
The Governor will be joined on the Trade and Investment Mission to Mexico by a delegation of state legislators and senior administration officials. A delegation organized by the California Chamber of Commerce with the help of the California Foundation for Commerce and Education that includes approximately 90 business, economic development, investment and policy leaders from throughout California will also participate in the trade mission.
The trip follows Governor Brown's 2013 Trade and Investment Mission to China. Over the past year, Governor Brown has also signed accords with leaders from China, Canada, Israel and Peru to combat climate change, strengthen California's economic ties and expand cooperation on promising research. In February, Governor Brown established the California International Trade and Investment Advisory Council to help expand international business opportunities for California companies and appointed former U.S. Ambassador to Hungary Eleni Kounalakis as chair.
**Note: An updated trade mission itinerary is below. It reflects the following additions and changes:
-Events with Mexico's President (Monday), Mexico's Secretary of Foreign Affairs (Monday) and Central American religious and diplomatic leaders (Tuesday);
-Minor time and program changes to the meeting with the Governor of the State of Mexico (Monday), the climate change memorandum of understanding signing (Monday), the meeting and memorandum of understanding signing with the Ministry of Energy (Tuesday), the American Chamber of Commerce of Mexico Luncheon (Tuesday) and the media availability with the Secretary of Labor and Social Welfare (Wednesday);
-Updated RSVP information and contacts for events involving the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Energy, Economy, and Labor and Social Welfare.
All events, times and locations are subject to change and require RSVPs from in-country reporters. Please note that all times are local, and unless specified, represent start times for events and meetings. Allow for ample check-in time. Moving forward updates to the itinerary will be reflected in the online media advisory at:www.gov.ca.gov

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=18614
