Public Statements
Governor Brown Signs Legislation to Stabilize Teachers' Retirement System
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: June 24, 2014
Location: Sacramento, CA

Taking action to reduce California's long-term fiscal liabilities, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today signed AB 1469, which fully funds - over a period of years - the teachers' retirement system through annual contributions of school districts, teachers and state government.
"This bill will ensure a decent retirement for hundreds of thousands of teachers, both now and for decades to come," said Governor Brown.
Before this bill, the California State Teachers' Retirement System (CalSTRS) was only 67 percent funded and would have run out of money in 33 years.
Under the legislation, authored by Assemblymember Rob Bonta (D-Alameda), the first year's contributions from teachers, schools and the state total approximately $276 million, growing in subsequent years to more than $5 billion annually. This is projected to eliminate the unfunded liability in the system by 2046.
"Our dedicated teachers work tirelessly to prepare our kids for college and career, and they deserve stability in their pension system," said Senate President pro Tem Darrell Steinberg. "This shared responsibility between the state, teachers and school districts is a necessary step towards assuring the fund's integrity, and will lift a huge burden from the state's long term financial responsibility."
"In January, Assembly Democrats made clear that kicking the CalSTRS underfunding can down the road had to stop, and that a comprehensive, solution needed to be approved this year," said Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins. "With today's signature by the Governor, CalSTRS escapes the downward spiral to insolvency and is now on a solid path to full funding. This shared solution, with the state, school districts, and teachers all contributing, provides greater retirement security to our dedicated teachers and more budget certainty to the state and our school districts."

Source:
