Public Statements
Transcript of Governor Brown Delivering Remarks at Budget Proposal Press Conference
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Jan. 10, 2013
Location: Unknown

This morning, I am proposing a balanced budget that cuts $12.5 billion from proposed state spending and gives California a vast and historic restructuring of government functions. For years, different activities are shifted and shuttled back and forth between state and local government. What I propose will be painful--it's going to take sacrifice from every sector of California--but for 10 years, this state has put together its budget with gimmicks and tricks and unrealistic expectations that have pushed this state deeper and deeper into debt. It's time now to restore California to fiscal solvency and put us on the road to economic recovery and jobs.
Now since it's going to take some time to fully implement the restructuring program, I'm going to ask for five years of extension of existing current taxes. This will allow the restructuring to proceed in an orderly way.
My proposed restructuring will return decisions and authority--as much as possible--to cities and counties and schools. And in that way, there will be greater accountability, transparency, and hopefully citizen participation because government will be closer to the people. Schools have borne the brunt of spending reductions, and in this budget, we are going to keep them at a level spending.
So in order to give you some more details--so you'll see exactly how it works--we have a PowerPoint and I'm going to quickly go over it and then I'll take questions and Ana will be here to take whatever I can't answer.
So, the first slide we will just hit the highlights, which is we're cutting spending $12.5 billion, we're reducing employee compensation and we have the restructuring plan.
Looking backward, we've had 10 years of gimmicks and tricks. The economic recovery bonds could cost several billion dollars this year. We securitized the tobacco settlement funds, instead of getting them year after year. We sold them in one year and got a big lump sum but then deprived the state of future revenue. We shifted state payroll from the end of the fiscal year, one day forward, and that created an illusion that there was actually a billion dollars in savings, when actually it was nothing at all like that. Then we had a Medi-Cal accounting shift from accrual to cash. We had the attempted sale of the Ed Fund and the State Compensation Fund. Then we had these optimistic revenue forecasts. All of that puts us in the mess, it's not honest, and we're now going to make it as transparent as possible.

Source:
