Public Statements
Governor Brown Signs Legislation to Give Women More Access to Birth Control
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Sept. 22, 2012
Location: Los Angeles, CA

Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today joined women's health advocates at Planned Parenthood Los Angeles Headquarters for a ceremony where he signed a bill that makes it easier for women to obtain birth control.
"At a time when some seek to turn back the clock and restrict women's health choices, California is expanding access to birth control and reaffirming every woman's basic Constitutional rights," said Governor Brown.
Assembly Bill 2348 by Assemblymember Holly Mitchell (D-Los Angeles) allows registered nurses (RNs) to dispense and administer hormonal contraceptives under a standardized procedure, as specified. It also allows RNs to dispense drugs and devices upon an order by a certified nurse-midwife (CNM), a nurse practitioner (NP), or a physician assistant (PA) while functioning within specified clinic settings.
"Having AB 2348 signed into law is the culmination of our hard-fought effort to expand access to birth control for women who need it," said Assemblymember Mitchell. "Today, women who would not have otherwise had access to hormonal contraceptives can declare a victory."
"California has long served as a national model for enacting proactive public policy that reduces rates of unintended pregnancy and expands access to comprehensive reproductive health care services," said Cecile Richards, President and CEO of Planned Parenthood Federation of America. "By enacting this bill, California is, once again, setting an example of national leadership at a critical time when access to health care is under attack."
"On behalf of Planned Parenthood and the thousands of women we serve, we want to thank Gov. Brown for his leadership and his longstanding support of women's health," said Kathy Kneer, President and CEO of Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California. "All across the country states are moving to restrict women's access to reproductive health care. By signing this bill, Gov. Brown is standing with women today as we tell the rest of the nation that these attacks on essential preventive health care stop in California."
"We applaud the Governor for continuing California's long-standing history of breaking down barriers to birth control access and helping women across the state reduce their risk of unintended pregnancy," said Julie Rabinovitz, California Family Health Council President and CEO. "With his signature, the Governor also took action to address provider shortages statewide by allowing RNs to work to the full extent of their scope and training. This is especially important in our changing health care landscape."
For full text of the bill, visit: http://leginfo.ca.gov/bilinfo.html.

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=17744
