Public Statements
Lake Tahoe Summit a Great Success
Statement
By: Brian Krolicki Brian Sandoval Jerry Brown, Jr. Dean Heller Dianne Feinstein
Date: Aug. 13, 2012
Location: Stateline, NV

Today, U.S. Senator Dean Heller (R-NV), Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval, California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr., U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and Nevada Lieutenant Governor Brian Krolicki released the following statements following the 16th Annual Lake Tahoe Summit.
"It was an honor to host this year's Summit and I would like to thank everyone who participated in making this event such a success. This year's focus was investing in the future of Lake Tahoe through public-private partnerships, which will be critical to the long-term environmental health of the Tahoe Basin. I look forward to working with all of the stakeholders in the future to ensure the continued protection of Lake Tahoe -- one of the most spectacular places on earth," said Senator Dean Heller.
"Today's Lake Tahoe Summit continues the strong partnership between Nevada and California to preserve the Lake," Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval said. "I am pleased that as a result of work begun at last year's Summit, real progress has been made toward an updated regional plan, which will provide the roadmap for success in reaching environmental and economic goals. I am optimistic that the recommendations from this effort will be seriously considered and I look forward to continuing our efforts."
"This year's summit reminds us that the health of the Lake is dependent on what we do on the land," said California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. "After years of debate, California and Nevada are finally getting their act together. The prospects for Lake Tahoe are bright."
"Each year the Tahoe Summit provides an opportunity to energize stakeholders and concentrate our efforts on restoring and protecting the Tahoe Basin--I think we accomplished those objectives this year. I believe we're moving in the right direction by focusing on the joint goals of passing the Lake Tahoe Restoration Act and building on existing public-private partnerships. We must allocate limited funds on the most cost-effective projects to help the lake, and I look forward to continuing to work with my partners to achieve that," said Senator Dianne Feinstein.
"It was an honor to attend this year's Lake Tahoe Summit and serve as the Master of Ceremonies. This annual event is a great way to bring people together and work towards the all-important goal of protecting Lake Tahoe, where I'm blessed to live. I am pleased with all that was accomplished today and I look forward to continuing the critical work necessary to ensure economic and environmental protection of the Tahoe Basin," said Lieutenant Governor Brian Krolicki.

Source: http://heller.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/2012/8/lake-tahoe-summit-a-great-success
