Public Statements
Governor Brown Directs State Agencies to Revise Flammability Standards
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: June 18, 2012
Location: Sacramento, CA

In an effort to protect public safety by reducing the use of toxic flame retardants, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today directed state agencies to revise flammability standards for upholstered furniture sold in the state.
Governor Brown has asked the Bureau of Electronic and Appliance Repair, Home Furnishings and Thermal Insulation to review the state's four-decade-old flammability standards and recommend changes to reduce toxic flame retardants while continuing to ensure fire safety.
"Toxic flame retardants are found in everything from high chairs to couches and a growing body of evidence suggests that these chemicals harm human health and the environment," said Governor Brown. "We must find better ways to meet fire safety standards by reducing and eliminating--wherever possible--dangerous chemicals."
Studies show that humans are at risk from exposure to toxic chemicals used as flame retardants in upholstered furniture. A 2008 study by the Environmental Working Group found that toddlers often have three times the level of flame retardant chemicals in their bodies as their parents, and California children have some of the highest levels of toxic flame retardants in their bodies.
A peer-reviewed study by scientists at Cal/EPA found that California women have much higher levels of toxic flame retardants in their breast tissue than women in other states and countries. Researchers from the University of California, Berkeley found statistically significant associations between flame retardant levels in the blood of California women and reduced fertility. The researchers believe this link may result from alterations in thyroid hormone levels after exposure to the chemicals.
Numerous studies demonstrate that firefighters have significantly elevated rates of cancer, including non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and brain cancer. A study published in the Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine concluded that firefighters have a significantly elevated risk of cancer that may be attributed to toxic chemicals they inhale, including flame retardants.
The guidelines in place now--Technical Bulletin 117 for flammability standards--will be updated to reflect modern manufacturing methods that can lower the use of harmful chemicals.
The process to change these regulations will include workshops and the opportunity for public comment as well as administrative review.

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=17598
