Public Statements
Governor Brown Marks Boeing's Delivery of 787 Dreamliner to California
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: March 14, 2012
Location: Long Beach, CA

Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today welcomed Boeing's new 787 Dreamliner to California, saying the cutting-edge airliner symbolizes the state's innovation and creativity. Hundreds of California engineers helped to design the Dreamliner, which uses 20 percent less fuel than similar-sized planes, and employs a range of new technologies to make it more efficient with less impact on the environment.
"This super efficient passenger airplane will cut fuel use by 20 percent and strengthen America's position as the world leader in commercial aviation," said Governor Brown.
Boeing employs 20,000 Californians, making it one of the state's largest private employers, and works directly with more than 5,700 suppliers and vendors statewide, making $6 billion in purchases each year. More than 500 Long Beach and Seal Beach-based engineers and nearly 80 suppliers contributed to the design and development of the Dreamliner.
"The 787 Dreamliner exemplifies an innovative approach that will change the future of air travel and inspire the engineers of tomorrow," said Nan Bouchard, vice president of program management for Boeing Defense, Space & Security. "California has played a key role in that success -- a testament to the state's technological leadership and rich aerospace history."
The airplane employs new technologies to reduce its environmental impact while making it faster and more efficient than its predecessors. Composite materials make up 50 percent of its structure, and engineers simplified the plane's systems and included health-monitoring technology. These innovations paired with advances in engine technology allow the mid-sized 787 to travel as far as much larger jet airplanes.
Boeing's presence in California goes back to 1922 when aviation pioneer Donald Douglas Sr. began building aircraft in Santa Monica.

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=17452
