Public Statements
Letter to Ms. Elaine M. Howle, State Auditor Bureau of State Audits and Mr. Daniel W. Hancock Little Hoover Commission
Letter
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Feb. 16, 2011
Location: Sacramento, CA

Seeking the best ideas to cut government waste and increase efficiency, Governor Jerry Brown has asked the Bureau of State Audits and the Little Hoover Commission to each provide a list of "Top 10 Actions" California can take to achieve these goals.
"This week I asked the state's top watchdogs to provide my office with a list of their "Top 10 Actions' to root out government waste and improve efficiency," Brown said. "As we tackle a $25 billion deficit, we must examine and re-examine every possible way to save taxpayer dollars."
Brown sent letters to Elaine Howle, the State Auditor, and Daniel W. Hancock, the chair of the Little Hoover Commission on Monday, February 14. In the letters, the Governor asked that the top ten lists each include five measures which can be implemented by Executive Order.
Since taking office, Brown has issued Executive Orders to freeze hiring across state government and cut state cell phones and the passenger vehicle fleet in half.
The letters are below:
------
February 14, 2011
Ms. Elaine M. Howle, State Auditor
Bureau of State Audits
555 Capitol Mall, Suite 300
Sacramento, California 95814
Dear Ms. Howle:
I want to access the best thinking from all parts of state government as my administration and the Legislature tackle the difficult work of closing the State's $25 billion budget deficit. Over the years, your organization, as the state's independent, nonpartisan, external auditor, has exposed government waste and proposed thoughtful reforms. Although your proposals often were not heeded, I want to hear and listen to your ideas and act on those that will enable government to effectively reduce costs and increase efficiencies.
I accordingly ask that, based on your work as the State's independent auditor, you send me a list of the top ten actions you believe California can take to reduce government waste and operate more efficiently. If possible, I would like your list by March 4, 2011, and I would like that list to identify at least five measures that I could implement by Executive Order.
With your help, we not only will get through the current fiscal crisis successfully, but we also will leave California stronger and better prepared for the future.
Sincerely,
Edmund G. Brown Jr.
------
February 14, 2011
Mr. Daniel W. Hancock
Little Hoover Commission
925 L Street, Suite 805
Sacramento, California 95814
Dear Mr. Hancock:
I want to access the best thinking from all parts of state government as my administration and the Legislature tackle the difficult work of closing the State's $25 billion budget deficit. Over the years, your organization has exposed government waste and proposed thoughtful reforms. Although your proposals often were not heeded, I want to hear and listen to your ideas and act on those that will enable government to effectively reduce costs and increase efficiencies.
I accordingly ask that you send me a list of the top ten actions you believe California can take to reduce government waste and operate more efficiently. If possible, I would like your list by March 4, 2011, and I would like that list to identify at least five measures that I could implement by Executive Order.
With your help, we not only will get through the current fiscal crisis successfully, but we also will leave California stronger and better prepared for the future.
Sincerely,
Edmund G. Brown Jr.

Source: http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=16913
