Public Statements
Brown Broadens Positive Ad Pledge, Calls on Whitman to Meet the Challenge
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Oct. 27, 2010
Location: Oakland, CA

A day after pledging to run only positive ads during the final week of the election, provided Meg Whitman does the same, Attorney General and Democratic Gubernatorial Candidate Jerry Brown today reiterated his positive ad challenge and expanded it, calling on all third parties and independent expenditure groups running campaign-related ads to abide by any agreement reached by the candidates.
"Just as I did yesterday, I am pledging again today to run only positive ads through Election Day if my opponent agrees to do the same," Brown said. "Meg Whitman has now had a full day to consult with her image makers and political handlers and it's time for each of us to put our best foot forward and end this campaign on a high note."
Brown also expanded the pledge today, calling on all third party groups to stop airing negative campaign-related ads if the candidates reach an agreement.
"The agreement shouldn't end with the candidates," Brown said. "If Meg Whitman will join me in pledging to end the negative ads, all third party and independent expenditure groups should abide by the agreement and only run positive ads through Election Day."
Yesterday at the Women's Conference, Matt Lauer, Co-Anchor of NBC's "The Today Show," asked both candidates if they would pledge to pull all negative advertising for the final week of the campaign. Brown agreed and made a full pledge to do so if Whitman followed suit. Whitman, however, has refused to meet the challenge.
In the past 15 days, Meg Whitman has released 11 new television attack ads, in English and Spanish, distorting Brown's record on jobs, taxes, spending, Proposition 13, pension reform, capital punishment, crime, campaign contributions, immigration and education. In total, Whitman attack ads have aired 80,000 times since the primary election ended.

Source: http://www.jerrybrown.org/brown-broadens-positive-ad-pledge-calls-whitman-meet-challenge
