Public Statements
Governor Brown to Climate Scientists: "We Will Persevere"
Statement
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Dec. 14, 2016
Location: San Francisco, CA

Rallying thousands of scientists at one of the largest international gatherings of its kind, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today called on the scientific community - the "truth-tellers" and "truth seekers" - to mobilize for the climate fight.
"The time has never been more urgent or your work never more important. The climate is changing, temperatures are rising, oceans are becoming more acidified, habitats are under stress - the world is facing tremendous danger," said Governor Brown at the American Geophysical Union's annual fall meeting in San Francisco. "It'll be up to you as truth-tellers, truth seekers to mobilize all your efforts to fight back. We've got a lot of firepower. We've got the scientists, we've got the universities, we have the national labs and we have the political clout and sophistication for the battle - and we will persevere. Have no doubt about that."
"We will pursue a path of collaboration and bold political advancement - whatever they do in Washington - and eventually the truth will prevail," Governor Brown continued. "This is not a battle of one day or one election. This is a long-term slog into the future and you are there, the foot soldiers of change and understanding and scientific collaboration."
Governor Brown's remarks follow yesterday's action to prevent further coastal oil and gas drilling, reduce ocean acidity and boost renewable energy development in California. In recent weeks, Governor Brown issued a joint release with the governors of Oregon and Washington and the premier of British Columbia reaffirming their commitment to climate action at the close of COP22. The Governor also announced 29 new members to the Under2 Coalition, an international climate pact formed by California and Baden-Württemberg, Germany among cities, states and countries to limit the increase in global average temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius, the level of potentially catastrophic consequences. A total of 165 jurisdictions have now joined the coalition representing more than a billion people and $25.7 trillion in combined GDP - more than one-third of the global economy.

Source: https://www.gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=19629
