Public Statements
Governor Brown Signs Legislation to Support Communities Impacted by Climate Change
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: Sept. 14, 2016
Location: Fresno, CA

Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today signed legislation that directs $900 million in cap-and-trade funds to greenhouse gas reducing programs that benefit disadvantaged communities, support clean transportation and protect natural ecosystems. The governor also signed bills that prioritize spending in communities disproportionally impacted by dirty air and carbon pollution.
"These cap-and-trade investments will help spur innovation of all kinds to curb carbon pollution," said Governor Brown at a signing ceremony in downtown Fresno, where cap-and-trade proceeds are helping to improve bus rapid transit services and access to affordable housing. "With these bills, we also will help communities hard hit by pollution and climate change."
Under current law, 60 percent of annual cap-and-trade auction proceeds are allocated on an ongoing basis to public transit, affordable housing, sustainable communities and high-speed rail. The legislation signed today - AB 1550 by Assemblymember Jimmy Gomez (D-Los Angeles), AB 2722 by Assemblymember Autumn R. Burke (D-Inglewood), and SB 859 and AB 1613 (budget committees) - invests $900 million of the remaining unallocated funds for fiscal year 2016-17 and reserves approximately $462 million for appropriation in future years.
"While the ultimate goal of cap-and-trade is to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions, and not to generate revenue, wisely investing the funds that do come from cap-and-trade can help us meet California's emission reduction goals," said Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon. "The bills signed today embody the aggressive and responsible approach we are taking in spending cap-and-trade funds to ensure that Californians in underserved communities - and communities most impacted by air quality problems - benefit from these investments."
"These bills unleash badly needed resources that can make tangible improvements to environmental health and quality of life in our most polluted and impoverished communities," said Senate President pro Tempore Kevin de León. "This year we set ambitious new targets for reducing harmful emissions of greenhouse gases and other toxic pollutants. Now it's time to use every tool at our disposal to reach those goals and improve lives in the process. These funds are a down-payment toward those ends - they will increase access to electric vehicles, solar panels, and low-carbon public transit; help us improve household energy efficiency and create new parks; and bolster our forest and wetland management efforts to better prepare for damaging wildfires and floods. I'd like to thank Governor Brown and all of my colleagues in both chambers for their leadership and support getting these resources to where they are needed most."










Source:
