Public Statements
Governor Brown Announces Appointments
Press Release
By: Jerry Brown, Jr.
Date: May 10, 2016
Location: Sacramento, CA

Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today announced the following appointments:
Patrick Barrett, 57, of Carmichael, has been appointed deputy director of legislation at the California Department of Motor Vehicles, where he has been acting deputy director of legislation since 2015 and has served in several positions since 1985, including assistant legislative officer, driver licensing policy manager, policy analyst and field office manager. This position does not require Senate confirmation and the compensation is $112,620. Barrett is a Democrat.
Raymond Meister, 55, of Oakland, has been appointed executive medical director of the Division of Workers' Compensation at the California Department of Industrial Relations, where he has served as associate medical director since 2014. Meister has been an associate clinical professor at the University of California, San Francisco Department of Medicine since 2009. He served as public health medical officer at the California Department of Public Health from 2000 to 2014. Meister earned a Master of Public Health degree from the University of California, Berkeley School of Public Health and a Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of Southern California School of Medicine. This position does not require Senate confirmation and the compensation is $176,220. Meister is registered without party preference.
Martin Brady, 54, of Sacramento, has been reappointed to the California Commission on Health and Safety and Workers' Compensation, where he has served since 2012. Brady has been executive director at the Schools Insurance Authority since 1997, where he was a risk management and prevention manager from 1988 to 1997. He earned a Master of Arts degree in physical education from California State University, Fresno. This position does not require Senate confirmation and the compensation is $100 per diem. Brady is registered without party preference.
Cynthia V. Guzm치n, 29, of Los Angeles, has been appointed to the California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists. Guzm치n has been a senior associate at Estolano, LeSar, Perez Advisors since 2015, where she has held several positions since 2012, including associate and research analyst. She was an intern at the City of Pasadena Planning and Community Development Department in 2011 and a law clerk at Kimball, Tirey and St. John LLP from 2009 to 2010. She is a member of the Women's Policy Institute at the Women's Foundation of California. Guzm치n earned a Master of Urban and Regional Planning degree from the University of California, Los Angeles School of Public Affairs. This position does not require Senate confirmation and the compensation is $100 per diem. Guzm치n is a Democrat.
Catalina Cifuentes, 38, of Riverside, has been appointed to the California Student Aid Commission. Cifuentes has been college and careers coordinator and school counselor at the Riverside County Office of Education since 2014. She served in several positions for the Corona-Norco Unified School District from 2002 to 2014, including head counselor, Advancement Via Individual Determination (AVID) coordinator and English teacher. Cifuentes was an English teacher and English language learner coordinator for the Riverside Unified School District from 1999 to 2002. She earned a Master of Arts degree in school counseling from Azusa Pacific University. This position requires Senate confirmation and the compensation is $100 per diem. Cifuentes is a Democrat.

Source: https://www.gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=19412
