Public Statements
Integrity Express Logistics Locates in Kenton County
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin today announced Integrity Express Logistics LLC, a family owned third-party logistics provider, opened its fourth operation and first in Kentucky, investing $820,000 in its new facility in Fort Mitchell and creating 30 full-time jobs.
"It is well known that Kentucky offers some of the nation's best shipping hubs and infrastructure advantages," said Gov. Bevin. "We pride ourselves in providing companies with the resources they need to succeed. While Kentucky's geographic advantages alone lay the basic groundwork for success, we will continue to work with Integrity Express Logistics to ensure they receive the resources necessary to accommodate future growth. We are delighted to welcome Integrity Express Logistics to the Commonwealth."
The Blue Ash, Ohio-based company renovated a 4,500-square-foot building in Fort Mitchell, investing in upgrades and new equipment. The opening comes amid other expansions for Integrity Express Logistics. Its Tampa location opened last year and its Nashville facility will begin operations later this year.
"We are really excited to be opening our newest office in northern Kentucky," said Pete Ventura, Integrity Express Logistics co-founder and partner. "The Commonwealth and local officials have been instrumental in helping us make our decision to expand to this location. Those in Kentucky have the same Midwestern values that we hold dear, are down to earth good people, and exactly the type of people that we like to bring into our business. We are looking forward to many years of success and couldn't be happier."
Founded in 2007, Integrity Express Logistics provides third-party freight brokerage. Its owners bring more than 30 years of logistics experience to their company. Integrity Express Logistics specializes in less-than-truckload, truckload and intermodal freight brokerage, and assists clients to resolve everyday freight needs and challenges. The Cincinnati Enquirer named Integrity Express Logistics to its Top 100 Workplaces last year, the Goering Center at University of Cincinnati named the company to its 2015 list of Top Workplaces, and Transport Topics, a trucking and freight industry newspaper, named Integrity Express logistics among the top 40 on its 2015 Top Brokerage Firms list.

Source:
