Public Statements
Creform Starts Construction on $4 Million Manufacturing Facility in Georgetown
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Unknown

Today Gov. Matt Bevin applauded Creform Corp., a material-handling systems company, for breaking ground on a $4 million production facility in Georgetown projected to create 10 full-time jobs.
"Creform's decision to locate their new production facility in Kentucky is a testament to the quality of our workforce and the desirability of our location," said Gov. Bevin. "It is exciting to see a world-renowned company continue to invest in our community. This partnership will help strengthen Creform's relationships with Toyota and automotive suppliers throughout the state. This is a natural fit, and I look forward to many years of continued growth."
Creform will build a 35,000-square-foot facility in the Lanes Run Business Park in Scott County to produce pipes and joints used to construct racking systems, as well as produce automated guided vehicles used for shuttling materials inside automotive factories. The company currently operates an administrative office in Georgetown.
Creform leaders expect to open the new facility by December and plan to hire an electrical controls engineer, electrical technician and mechanical design engineer among other positions. Creform executives decided to locate in Georgetown thanks to growth in its robotics business, proximity to current and potential customers and Kentucky's logistical advantages.
Atsuhiko Yazaki, president and CEO of Creform Corp., expressed his appreciation at the groundbreaking ceremony.
"For over a quarter of a century, Creform Corporation has contributed to the U.S. economy as a U.S.-based company. As a result of our teamwork, we have received many generous reviews from so many customers, which has made us the company we are today," Yazaki said. "This expansion into Kentucky would support more customers and help the local economy."
"We sincerely appreciate the many Kentuckians who support and encourage Creform Corporation to take this new step forward," he added. "We will continue to strive to be an engaged and productive member of the state's corporate community. I love Kentucky!"
Creform, a subsidiary of Yazaki Kako Corp. based in Shizuoka, Japan, designs, produces and sells pipe and joint components and systems for customizable racks and other factory-floor structures. Those structures help factories efficiently contain, organize and distribute parts at work stations and along assembly lines. It supplies those systems and its automated guided vehicles to automotive-industry customers.
Yazaki Kako Corp. developed the Creform product in 1966 and the name was coined as shorthand for "create-a-form." Though originally developed for the construction of portable greenhouses and parking structures, Creform has since expanded into the areas of manufacturing, commercial use and household items.
Creform's U.S. headquarters is located in Greer, S.C. The company has provided products for Toyota and automotive parts suppliers for years, and has maintained a relationship with Toyota Motor Manufacturing Kentucky since 1993. Creform also operates sales offices in Asia, North America and Europe.
Sen. Damon Thayer, of Georgetown, said he appreciated the company choosing to expand into manufacturing in Scott County.
"I thank Creform for its investment in Scott County," Sen. Thayer said. "This move will further energize our regional economy while providing additional jobs for hard-working Kentuckians, and I welcome the news of the company's expansion."
Rep. Tom McKee, of Cynthiana, welcomed the news of Creform's move into manufacturing locally.
"This is great news for Scott County, especially the families who will benefit from this investment and these new jobs," Rep. McKee said. "I want to thank Creform for making this move, and I appreciate what our state and local leaders have done to help make this possible."
Rep. Chuck Tackett, of Georgetown, said Creform's expansion adds momentum to Scott County's recent progress.
"It's always exciting to see economic growth in Scott County, currently the fastest-growing county in Kentucky," Rep. Tackett said. "We welcome Creform's expansion and hope to see more of that in the future."
Georgetown Mayor Tom Prather noted Creform adds momentum to the community's growing business climate and thriving economy.
"Creform's decision to expand its operations attests to the great business climate in Georgetown and Scott County. The company's new facility also speaks to our goal of meeting the needs of our existing businesses," Mayor Prather said.
Scott County Judge-Executive George Lusby pointed to the importance of helping existing Scott County businesses succeed.
"I could not be more pleased with Creform taking the opportunity to grow and expand its operations at the Lanes Run Business Park," Judge Lusby said. "Our economic model of making sure our existing base is well-pleased is what is most critical to our success."
To encourage the investment and job growth in the community, the Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) in September 2015 preliminarily approved the company for tax incentives up to $250,000 through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.
Additionally, KEDFA approved Creform for up to $50,000 in tax incentives through the Kentucky Enterprise Initiative Act (KEIA). KEIA allows approved companies to recoup Kentucky sales and use tax on construction costs, building fixtures, equipment used in research and development and electronic processing.
Creform can also receive resources from the Kentucky Skills Network. Through the Kentucky Skills Network, companies are eligible to receive no-cost recruitment and job placement services, reduced-cost customized training and job training incentives. Last year, the Kentucky Skills Network trained more than 84,000 employees from more than 5,600 Kentucky companies.
For more information on Creform, visit www.Creform.com.
A detailed community profile for Georgetown (Scott County) can be viewed here.
Information on Kentucky's economic development efforts and programs is available at www.ThinkKentucky.com. Fans of the Cabinet for Economic Development can also join the discussion on Facebook or follow on Twitter. Watch the Cabinet's "This is My Kentucky" video on YouTube.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=85
