Public Statements
Luxco Breaks Ground on Bardstown Distillery
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: May 2, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin joined local officials and executives from Luxco, a distilled spirits company, in breaking ground on an approximately $30 million distillery in Bardstown that will create 34 full-time jobs.
"As the world's undisputed bourbon capital, Kentucky welcomes the addition of Luxco's distillery to our thriving and proud tradition," Gov. Bevin said. "Ideally situated, we know Luxco will find itself right at home among the distinguished members of the Commonwealth's bourbon industry. Locating in Bardstown will present Luxco and its visitors with opportunities they wouldn't find elsewhere."
Construction of Luxco's first stand-alone, wholly-owned distillery marks a significant milestone in the company's history. Luxco currently contract distills its bourbon brands -- Rebel Yell, Ezra Brooks and Blood Oath -- through relationships with other distilleries.
This new facility will give Luxco 100 percent control of quality and production volume of its bourbon. With its ideal location in Bardstown and picturesque setting, Luxco hopes to establish the distillery as a premier destination on the Kentucky Bourbon Trail. The distillery gives Luxco a well-defined place around which to center its brands' heritage, a critical element in attracting bourbon consumers searching for authentic products and experiences.
The campus will include an 18,000-square-foot distillery and visitors' center with a tasting room and event space. Additionally, Luxco will construct up to six barrel warehouses on its 70-acre site off State Highway 245. Construction will begin in the coming weeks with completion planned by late 2017.
"We are looking forward to building the distillery on this scenic property and in such a central location in Bardstown," said David Bratcher, president and COO of Luxco. "We intend the distillery to be a welcoming stop for those visiting the Kentucky Bourbon Trail and we are excited to bring our bourbon experience and brands to Nelson County."
"We are pleased with the support we have received from the Kentucky Economic Development Cabinet, the Nelson County Economic Development Agency and city and county government officials," added Luxco Chairman Donn Lux.
Founded in St. Louis, Mo. in 1958 by David Sherman Sr. and Paul A. Lux, under the name David Sherman Corp., Luxco produces, imports and markets within the spirits industry. The Lux family continues to own and operate the company and in 2006 changed the name to Luxco.
In addition to its bourbons, the company's products include Juarez Tequila and Triple Sec, Pearl Vodka, Everclear Grain Alcohol, Arrow Cordials, El Mayor Tequila, Exotico Tequila, Lord Calvert Canadian Whisky, St. Brendan's Irish Cream, Salvador's Cocktails and Yago Sant'Gria, among more than 170 labels in its beverage portfolio. Manufacturing, packaging, marketing and distribution take place at the company facilities in St. Louis, Cleveland and Cincinnati.
Sen. Jimmy Higdon, of Lebanon, said Luxco will be a good fit in Nelson County with the region's strong distilling presence.
"I welcome the news and thank Luxco for its investment in Nelson County and its distilling industry," said Sen. Higdon. "This move will further energize our regional economy while providing additional jobs for hard-working Kentuckians."
Rep. David Floyd, of Bardstown, said Luxco is a great addition to an area that is unmatched in bourbon production.
"It makes sense for Luxco to build their distillery in Bardstown, with the presence of the Kentucky Bourbon Trail," Rep. Floyd said. "Our area lends itself to the best bourbon production in the world. The addition of this new facility and the 34 jobs that will accompany the investment are testament to a robust business climate in Kentucky. I am proud to welcome Luxco to Bardstown, and to watch their growth into the future."
Bardstown Mayor John Royalty said the city looks forward to adding to its growing list of local distilleries.
"Bardstown is proud to add yet another distillery to our bourbon family," said Mayor Royalty. "We thank Luxco for their decision to locate in the heart of bourbon country, and we look forward to celebrating years of success with them."
Nelson County Judge-Executive Dean Watts pointed to Luxco's success as a major selling point.
"We are excited to have Luxco become part of our community," said Judge Watts. "Their history and success in the liquor industry will greatly enhance our county."
To encourage the investment and job growth in the community, the Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) preliminarily approved the company for tax incentives up to $1 million through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.
Additionally, KEDFA approved Luxco for up to $300,000 in tax incentives through the Kentucky Enterprise Initiative Act (KEIA). KEIA allows approved companies to recoup Kentucky sales and use tax on construction costs, building fixtures, equipment used in research and development and electronic processing.
In addition, Luxco can receive resources from the Kentucky Skills Network. Through the Kentucky Skills Network, companies are eligible to receive no-cost recruitment and job placement services, reduced-cost customized training and job training incentives. Last year, the Kentucky Skills Network trained more than 84,000 employees from more than 5,600 Kentucky companies.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=84
