Public Statements
Gov. Matt Bevin Makes Appointments to Kentucky Boards and Commissions
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: April 29, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin has made the following appointments to Kentucky boards and commissions:
Walter Maguire, Larry Brock and Michael Bolcas have been appointed to the Parole Board.
Walter F. Maguire, of Somerset, a retired circuit family court judge, is replacing Jaye Shannon Jones of Lexington, who resigned, to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term ending June 20, 2018.
Larry R. Brock, of Richmond, retiring police chief for the City of Richmond, is replacing Sarah G. Johnson of Mount Sterling, who resigned, to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term ending June 30, 2019, effective May 23, 2016.
Michael A. Bolcas, of Versailles, a former state probation and parole official, is replacing Lee M. Wise of Frankfort, to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term ending June 30, 2019.
Caroline Mudd has been reappointed to the Parole Board.
Caroline W. Mudd, of Lebanon, has been reappointed for a term expiring June 30, 2020.
The Kentucky Parole Board consists of diverse, experienced, and committed professionals who are honored to serve the citizens of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. The nine (9) full time members conduct hearings and reviews including parole and revocation hearings for convicted felons as well as a minimal number of youthful offender hearings.
The mission of the Kentucky Parole Board is to make decisions that maintain a delicate balance between public safety, victim rights, reintegration of the offender and recidivism.
All board members as well as additional support staff are members of the Association of Paroling Authorities International (APAI) and continuously utilize resources through APAI as well as the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) to enhance knowledge and expertise with regards to criminal justice and the parole process. The goal is to utilize research and evidence based practices in order to keep Kentucky on the cutting edge with advances in the field.
Marcus Carey and Carlo Wessels have been appointed to the Kentucky Board of Tax Appeals.
Marcus S. Carey, of Sparta, is replacing Mary M. Karns of Lexington, whose term expired, to serve for a term expiring April 16, 2020. Gov. Bevin has also designated Mr. Carey, a veteran attorney, as Chair of the Board.
Carlo R. Wessels, of Villa Hills, is replacing Cecil F. Dunn of Lexington, to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term ending July 26, 2019.
The Kentucky Board of Tax Appeals (KBTA) provides an independent, impartial and neutral forum for hearing and resolving disputes on tax issues in a timely, cost-effective alternative to the court system.
In order to ensure impartial decision making, the KBTA is organized under the Public Protection Cabinet and is completely independent of any of the taxing authorities that may appear before the board.
Gail Lively and Stephen Brunson have been appointed to the Kentucky Housing Corporation Board of Directors.
Gail F. Lively, of Louisville, is replacing Richard A. Vance of Louisville, representing interests of home construction industry, to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term ending October 30, 2019.
Stephen P. Brunson, of Fort Wright, is replacing Charles J. Reid of Owensboro, representing interests of financial lending, to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term ending October 30, 2019.
Kentucky Housing Corporation (KHC) invests in affordable housing solutions by offering an array of programs and services designed to develop, preserve, and sustain affordable housing throughout the state.
Created by the 1972 General Assembly, KHC is a self-supporting, public corporation of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and is governed by a 15-member Board of Directors. KHC is a quasi-government agency, which is administratively attached to the Finance and Administration Cabinet, and a portion of KHC's funds are derived from the interest earned through the sale of tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. From these proceeds, KHC has made homeownership possible for thousands of Kentucky families.
KHC also receives fee income for administering federal programs, including rental assistance that makes quality housing available to low-income Kentuckians. Other programs offered by KHC include rental housing financing, including administering Low-Income Housing Tax Credits, homeownership education/counseling, housing rehabilitation, homeless programs, home energy and repair initiatives, as well as loan servicing.
KHC works with many partners across the state to invest in and create affordable housing opportunities
David Eager has been appointed to the Board of Trustees of the Kentucky Retirement Systems.
David L. Eager, of Louisville, is replacing Daniel L. Bauer of Louisville, whose term expired, to serve for a term expiring March 31, 2020.
Mr. Eager is a partner in Eager, Davis & Holmes, LLC, of Louisville, which provides marketing and client service consulting to investment management firms. Mr. Eager also assists organizations that are interested in making equity investments and acquisitions in the investment management industry.
Mr. Eager previously spent two years as Driehaus Capital Management's Director for Product Development. He began his career at Gerber Products Company where he was responsible for the firm's retirement plan assets including running the in-house equity portfolio. From Gerber, Mr. Eager went to A.G. Becker (later SEI) where he helped open their Houston office and served Becker clients in Texas.
In 1978, Mr. Eager joined Meidinger, Inc., where he ultimately ran their investment consulting unit. After Mercer's acquisition of Meidinger, he ran the Mercer-Meidinger investment consulting.
William D. Donan has been appointed to the Mine Safety Review Commission.
William D. Donan, of Louisville, is replacing William M. Cox of Madisonville, to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term ending May 23, 2019. Gov. Bevin has also designated Mr. Donan, a longtime attorney, experienced coal industry official and former member of the Commission, as chair of the Commission.
Recognizing that the highest priority and concern of the Commonwealth must be the health and safety of the coal industry's most valuable resource--the miner--resulted in the creation of the Mine Safety Review Commission (MSRC).
The three (3) member commission, each of whom is required to meet the criteria of a Court of Appeals judge and complete the state's 40-hour New Miner Trainer Program, is appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Kentucky state senate.
The commission conducts hearings concerning licensed premises and both certified and noncertified personnel involved in coal mining, who are charged with willful and repeated violations of Kentucky's mine safety laws and placing miners in imminent danger of serious injury or death.
Mark F. Sommer has been appointed to the Kentucky Lottery Corporation Board of Directors.
Mark F. Sommer, of Louisville, is replacing Walter F. Maguire of Somerset, who resigned, to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term ending November 28, 2019.
The Kentucky Lottery Corporation Board of Directors oversees operations and management of the Kentucky Lottery, which was first established in 1989 after a constitutional ballot referendum establishing the lottery was approved by the voters of Kentucky. Kentucky Lottery has provided billions of dollars in college scholarship and grant programs since its inception 27 years ago, as the lottery continues to strengthen its mission to support education in the Commonwealth.
Mark Haines has been appointed to the Personnel Board.
Mark O. Haines, of Glasgow, is replacing Tommy W. Chandler of Providence, who resigned, to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term ending January 1, 2018.
The Personnel Board was established to safeguard the "merit system" for state government employees and to serve as an impartial adjudicator of employee-employer disputes for state government. The Personnel Board is composed of seven (7) members. Five (5) are appointed by the Governor and two (2) are elected by state merit employees. Each member serves a four-year term, with the terms being staggered.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=83
