Public Statements
Gov. Matt Bevin Announces Kentucky Horse Racing Commission Appointments and Reorganization
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: April 27, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin today announced twelve new members to the Kentucky Horse Racing Commission and a revamped commission structure to enhance the focus on one of Kentucky's signature industries. New members include retired Hall of Fame jockey Pat Day, Breeders' Cup Director Bret Jones, and Ken Jackson, founding member of the North American Standardbred Breeders Association.
"These individuals encompass the character, competence and commitment to the Commonwealth we need to elevate Kentucky's horse racing industry," said Gov. Bevin. "We are fortunate to have men and women of high caliber and integrity willing to serve in these roles."
Kentucky Horse Racing Commission Appointees announced today are:
Frank Kling, Villa Hills (2-year term) as commission Chairman: Kling is Chairman and CEO of FK Holdings, a multi-national holding company headquartered in Cincinnati. Mr. Kling has an accounting degree from Thomas More College and is a former of the commission. Kling and his wife are thoroughbred breeders.
John Roach, Lexington (2 -year term) as commission vice chairman: Roach is a former Kentucky Supreme Court Justice who is passionate for horse racing and has participated in stallion syndications including Congrats and Pioneer of the Nile.
Lesley Howard, Lexington (4-year term): Played integral role in startup venture that created Stonestreet Farm, which is known for racing Curlin and Rachel Alexandra. She is on the board of directors of the Gluck Equine Research Center and a supporter of Bluegrass Farms Charities and New Vocations, a racehorse retaining program. Howard has an accounting degree from the University of Kentucky.
Dr. David Richardson, Louisville (4year term): Chairman of the Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association's Graded Stakes Committee. Dr. Richardson has published more than 350 medical articles and book chapters. He is an equine drug expert.
Mark Simendinger, Edgewood (3-year term): Former President of Turfway Park Race Course in Florence and the only President and GM in Kentucky Speedway history.
Brereton C. Jones, Jr., Midway (4-year term): Founding member of the Kentucky Thoroughbred Association's 2020 campaign--a group developed to educate and give a voice to the industry's under-40 generation. He's been a Breeder's Cup Board Director since 2011.
Pat Day, Louisville (4-year term): World-renowned champion jockey who is in the horse racing Hall of Fame and is respected throughout the industry. During his career, Day won all three Triple Crown races, the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness Stakes, and the Belmont Stakes.
Doug Hendrickson, Maysville (3-year term): Former racing commissioner who is widely acclaimed. President of Limestone Associates in Maysville.
Kerry Cauthen, Lexington (4-year term): Owner of Four Star Sales. Cauthen is a breeder and helped develop the Breeders Fund.
Kenneth Jackson, Lexington (3-year term): University of Kentucky and University of Louisville graduate with degrees in finance and law. He was an original member of the U.S. Trotting Association Blue Ribbon Breeders Committee. As a founding member of the North American Standardbred Breeders Association, Jackson is a Standardbred expert.
Gerald Holt, Munfordville (3-year term): Horse owner and breeder. Since the 1970's he's logged 474 races. Mr. Holt also brings geographic diversity and representation from small breeders and racing stables.
Dr. Stuart Brown, Versailles (2-year term): His practice specializes in the area of equine reproduction. He was named 2014 Veterinarian of the year by the Kentucky Veterinary Medical Association.
The Secretary of the Public Protection Cabinet, the Secretary of the Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet, and the Secretary of the Cabinet for Economic Development are also ex-officio voting members on the commission.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=77
