Public Statements
Gov. Bevin Appoints Florence Businessman to Public Service Commission
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: April 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Matt Bevin has appointed Robert Cicero, a Florence businessman, to the Kentucky Public Service Commission (PSC).
"Bob Cicero's experience as an independent businessman and his background as an accountant will be an asset to an agency that makes decisions affecting the lives of nearly every Kentuckian," Gov. Bevin said. "I am grateful for his willingness to serve the Commonwealth in this key position."
Cicero was appointed to a serve the remainder of a term that expires on July 1. He is eligible for reappointment to a full four-year term.
Since 2011, Cicero has been co-owner of High Performance Coolers LLC, which sells high-end coolers for personal and commercial uses. He previously was owner of MCM Clinical Research LLC and chief financial officer and treasurer of Aristech Acrylics LLC, both in Florence.
Cicero holds a Master of Business Administration degree from the Joseph M. Katz Graduate School of Business at the University of Pittsburgh.
"I am delighted to have someone with Bob's extensive knowledge of the issues facing Kentucky businesses join the Public Service Commission,'' Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet Secretary Charles G. Snavely said.
Cicero's appointment gives the three-member PSC the quorum it needs to issue orders and leaves it with one vacancy.
"I am thankful to Governor Bevin for entrusting me with the responsibility of serving Kentucky as a member of the PSC," Cicero said. "I am committed to doing my utmost to see that the utilities under PSC jurisdiction provide safe and reliable service at rates that are fair, just and reasonable."
The PSC is an independent agency attached for administrative purposes to the Energy and Environment Cabinet. It regulates more than 1,500 gas, water, sewer, electric and telecommunication utilities operating in Kentucky and has approximately 85 employees.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=76
