Public Statements
Gov. Bevin to Promote Kentucky's Manufacturing Advantages in Europe
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: April 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin will attend the Hannover Messe Fair in Hannover, Germany this week as part of a five-day trip through Europe to strengthen existing ties and build new relationships with business leaders.
At Hannover Messe, Gov. Bevin and other state officials will meet on Tuesday with companies that have Kentucky facilities, as well as prospective businesses, before traveling in Germany, France and Belgium to meet with executives throughout the rest of the week.
"This trip provides an incredible opportunity to sell the benefits of locating in Kentucky to a number of the world's premier manufacturers," Gov. Bevin said. "Kentucky stands out globally as an exceptional location for manufacturing. Our delegation's mission is to actively recruit international companies and showcase why they should choose the Commonwealth for their next major project. We enjoy a strong economic relationship with European companies - they currently own and operate 180 facilities in the state and employ nearly 29,000 Kentuckians. We intend to build on that existing strength."
Hannover Messe, taking place April 25-29, is the world's largest industrial fair with approximately 6,500 exhibitors and more than 200,000 visitors annually from more than 70 countries. The event began in 1947 and covers all areas of industrial technology. This year's themes include industrial automation, digital factory, energy, research and technology and industrial supply. Nearly 1,300 speakers from throughout the world will discuss the future of industry on a global scale.
Several organizations representing the Commonwealth will take part in this year's event, including the Kentucky Innovation Network, KentuckyUnited and the Cabinet for Economic Development.
"There is no better way than speaking in person with industry executives at Hannover Messe and during our Europe trip, to demonstrate our state's commitment to providing first-class service to existing and potential corporate partners," said Erik Dunnigan, the Cabinet's acting secretary. "This trip takes abroad our messages about Kentucky's vibrant economy, advanced manufacturing capabilities and location advantages that rank second to none."
Kentucky is home to 450 internationally owned facilities that employ nearly 90,000 people statewide. Those companies represent 33 countries and all of Kentucky's key industries: automotive, food and beverage, aerospace, rubber and plastics, healthcare, distribution and logistics, primary metals and chemicals.
For more information on Hannover Messe, visit www.HannoverMesse.de. Stay up to date on the latest news from Hannover and the Kentucky delegation by following along on social media with hashtags #HM16USA, #SelectUSA, #HM16 and #KentuckyMakes.
Information on Kentucky's economic development efforts and programs is available at www.ThinkKentucky.com. Fans of the Cabinet for Economic Development can also join the discussion on Facebook or follow on Twitter. Watch the Cabinet's "This is My Kentucky" video on YouTube.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=75
