Public Statements
Advanced Business Solutions Plans $2.5 Million Louisville Expansion
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: April 25, 2016
Location: Unknown

Advanced Business Solutions (ABS), which designs and implements software for the medical and banking industries, plans to buy a nearby building to expand its Louisville operations with a $2.5 million investment and 10 full-time positions, Gov. Matt Bevin and Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer announced today.
"As a Jefferson County corporate citizen of more than 20 years, Advanced Business Solutions has proved to be a great partner for both the local community and Kentucky," Gov. Bevin said. "The company's decision to expand comes as welcome news. It means more jobs and positive economic impact, as well as a stronger IT industry in the Commonwealth."
ABS will purchase a 12,000-square-foot building near its current 6,000-square-foot facility on Brownsboro Road to accommodate the expansion. The new building will allow the company to grow its business volume and better serve its customers through expanded services and hiring of top talent. The investment will also allow expansion of the company's tiered help desk, which offers remote computer support to clients across the country.
"As the banking and medical industries increasingly rely on digital resources for their day-to-day operations, Advanced Business Solutions sees the opportunity to further support our clients and develop new relationships," said Mark Lewis, CEO of ABS. "This new building will give us the resources to respond to those opportunities. I'm proud to remain and expand in Louisville's tech community and grateful for the state's assistance to that end."
Mayor Fischer said the community is proud of the growth of its corporate citizen of more than two decades.
"It's always exciting when a company that has called Louisville home for more than 20 years chooses to remain here and grow their business," Mayor Fischer said. "The investment made by Advanced Business Solutions is a testament to Louisville's commitment to being a leader in the fast-growing business services sector and increases our technology-based workforce."
Lewis founded ABS in 1995 to develop software and IT strategies, especially for complex industry issues. The company provides personalized services, including help desk, and on-site emergency response, for clients. ABS currently employs more than 50 people at its original Brownsboro Road location.
Sen. Ernie Harris, of Prospect, thanked ABS for its investment and noted said the project will have a positive impact on the region.
"I thank Advanced Business Solutions for its continual investment in Jefferson County. This move will further energize our regional economy while providing additional jobs for hard-working Kentuckians, and I welcome the news of the company's expansion," Sen. Harris said.
Rep. Reginald Meeks, of Louisville, noted that the announcement strengthens the community's claim as a leader in information technology.
"Advanced Business Solutions has been a great asset to our community, so this decision to expand comes as welcome news," Rep. Meeks said. "This move also further solidifies our community's reputation as the state's chief economic engine, especially when it comes to information technology. I want to thank the company and those local and state officials who worked with ABS to help make this possible."
To encourage the investment and job growth in the community, the Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) preliminarily approved the company for tax incentives up to $170,000 through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.
In addition, ABS can receive resources from the Kentucky Skills Network. Through the Kentucky Skills Network, companies are eligible to receive no-cost recruitment and job placement services, reduced-cost customized training and job training incentives. Last year, the Kentucky Skills Network trained more than 84,000 employees from more than 5,600 Kentucky companies.
For more information on Advanced Business Solutions, visit www.AdvancedBusinessSolutions.com.
A detailed community profile for Louisville (Jefferson County) can be viewed here.
Information on Kentucky's economic development efforts and programs is available at www.ThinkKentucky.com. Fans of the Cabinet for Economic Development can also join the discussion on Facebook or follow on Twitter. Watch the Cabinet's "This is My Kentucky" video on YouTube.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=73
