Public Statements
Auto Industry Supplier Thai Summit to Create 216 Jobs With New Bardstown Facility
Statement
By: Matt Bevin
Date: March 31, 2016
Location: Frankfort, KY

Thai Summit America Corp., which supplies stamped and welded parts to automakers, plans to build a $110 million facility in Bardstown -- its first in Kentucky -- creating 216 full-time positions, Governor Matt Bevin announced today.
"With a reputation for quality products earned across three decades in the U.S., Thai Summit makes a welcome addition to both Kentucky's automotive industry and the Nelson County economy," Gov. Bevin said. "Kentucky's auto industry directly employs nearly 90,000 people and constitutes a major part of our economy. The addition of Thai Summit speaks to our continuing momentum and the benefits of location and existing customer base that Kentucky offers. We look forward to a long-lasting and beneficial relationship."
Thai Summit executives plan to begin construction in May on a 220,000-square-foot facility in the Nelson County Industrial Park. On completion of first-phase construction at the end of 2016, the factory will begin delivering stamped and welded aluminum assemblies to the Ford Kentucky Truck Plant in Louisville. The company's investment also covers the cost of presses and other equipment.
"We look forward to establishing Thai Summit's first Kentucky facility and supplying our customer, Ford Motor Co., with the quality products that it has come to expect and rely upon from us," said Chumpol Rangson, president and CEO of Thai Summit America Corp. "Our new location will also help us take advantage of other business opportunities in Kentucky's automotive manufacturing industry."
Established in 1985 in Howell, Mich., Thai Summit America Corp. -- a Thai Summit Group company -- also supplies other Ford facilities, Chrysler and other automotive manufacturers. It offers remote laser welding, 3-D white light measurement and high-strength steel capabilities. Thai Summit currently operates facilities in North America and Asia.

Source:
