Public Statements
Innovative Workforce Training Program KY FAME Adds Chapter in Northeast Region
Statement
By: Matt Bevin
Date: March 8, 2016
Location: Frankfort, KY

One of the Commonwealth's nationally recognized workforce training programs, the Kentucky Federation for Advanced Manufacturing Education (KY FAME), expanded to northeast Kentucky and the SOAR region, Governor Matt Bevin announced today.
Through KY FAME, high school graduates and adults can earn an associate degree in advanced manufacturing while gaining hands-on, paid experience at a sponsoring manufacturer. The apprenticeship-style, education-and-training program addresses a need for more technically skilled workers in advanced manufacturing.
"With this new KY FAME chapter, local employers and the Kentucky Community and Technical College System take a leadership role in creating a pipeline of highly skilled employees to grow the regional and statewide economy," said Governor Bevin. "Congratulations to the northeast Kentucky region for forming this latest chapter. It will join in the growing success of KY FAME in educating and training Kentuckians to become one of the world's most highly skilled and in-demand workforces."
Northeast KY FAME participants will enroll in the Advanced Manufacturing Technician (AMT) program at one of Maysville Community and Technical College's (MCTC) four campuses. Students attend classes two days a week and work at a sponsoring manufacturer 24 hours per week. After completing the five-semester program, students receive an associate degree in applied sciences.
With the practical skills gained during their paid work experience, KY FAME graduates often take full-time positions with their sponsoring companies. Graduates can also continue their education toward bachelor's degrees in engineering or business.
Other KY FAME chapters include the Bluegrass Region (central Kentucky), Greater Louisville, Northern Kentucky, Elizabethtown/Lincoln Trail, Greater Owensboro, Cumberlands, Southcentral and West Kentucky regions. The goal is to eventually expand the program to all corners of the Commonwealth.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=49
