Public Statements
Bevin Administration Files Suit to Stop Unlicensed Abortion Clinic
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: March 3, 2016
Location: Frankfort, KY

The Governor's Office today announced that the Cabinet for Health and Family Services has filed a lawsuit against Eubanks & Marshall of Lexington, P.S.C. to prohibit it from operating a facility in which it has performed abortions without a license and a required emergency transfer agreement.
"Last month it was brought to our attention that EMW in Lexington is operating without a license," said CHFS Secretary Vickie Yates Glisson. "Our inspectors visited the location and confirmed that EMW is unlicensed and does not have the required ambulance transfer agreement in place to protect women in the case of emergency. Furthermore, the inspector found the facility in an unsanitary condition. Regrettably, the location had not been inspected since 2006. There are laws in place to protect our citizens, and we will ensure the laws are upheld."
The complaint points out that EMW knowingly, intentionally, fraudulently, deceitfully, with unlawful design, willfully, and with deliberate misrepresentation, or by careless, negligent, or incautious disregard for Kentucky law, operated an abortion facility without an ambulance service transfer agreement.
Background:
Introduction to the Complaint
Kentucky law very clearly states that an abortion facility must first be licensed before it can perform abortions. Nevertheless, the Defendant operates--and has operated for some time--an unlicensed abortion clinic in Lexington.
A recent inspection of the Defendant's Lexington facility uncovered that the facility exists solely to perform abortions. Therefore, it does not qualify for the licensure exemption provided to private physicians' offices. It is an abortion facility, and as such, the law requires that it be licensed.
The licensure requirements for abortion facilities exist for the purpose of protecting the health and safety of the women who receive abortions at such facilities. Among these requirements are transfer agreements, which provide a contractual relationship and procedures on which patients can be transferred to a hospital in the event that an emergency occurs during an abortion. Kentucky law requires abortion facilities to have transfer agreements with both a hospital and an ambulance service that can transport patients to the hospital. The Defendant has a transfer agreement with a hospital, but not with an ambulance service. Its only plan is to call "911" in the event of an emergency. This does not comply with Kentucky law and jeopardizes the safety and lives of the Defendant's patients.
Kentucky law also requires that abortion facilities not maintain expired medication, and that the facilities be kept clean. The Defendant's facility in Lexington fails these requirements. At the time of the most recent inspection--the first inspection by the Cabinet since 2006--the facility maintained a significant quantity of expired medication, and the facility was unsanitary. Again, the facility falls below the standards required by Kentucky law.
In the interest of enforcing Kentucky law and protecting the health and safety of women who receive services at the Defendant's Lexington abortion facility, this Court should impose statutory penalties upon the Defendant and enjoin the Defendant from performing abortions at that facility until such time as it is appropriately licensed.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=46
