Public Statements
America Sednair Moves Into Manufacturing With Opening of $1 Million U.S. Headquarters In Mayfield
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Feb. 23, 2016
Location: Frankfort, KY

With a ribbon cut today on its new U.S. headquarters in Graves County, America SednAir Compressor System Inc. officially adds manufacturer to its lengthy list of attributes.
The company, which imports, exports, maintains, repairs and retails parts for industrial air compressors systems, operated for 10 years from a warehouse. Its new $1 million facility in Mayfield spans 10,600 square-feet, giving America SednAir space to hire 11 new employees and begin production of air coolers -- essentially heat exchanges -- that chill compressed air for large-scale compressors.
"America SednAir built a successful business in western Kentucky over the past decade and grew its customer base worldwide," said Governor Matt Bevin. "Now -- with a highly respected name in its industry -- America SednAir's move into manufacturing further reinforces Kentucky's stature as a place recognized around the world for top-quality products. I am proud of all those involved in this homegrown success story and excited to assist America SednAir in their future growth."
The new facility -- which includes office space, manufacturing, shipping-and-receiving areas -- puts the company closer to both customers and parts suppliers.
"America SednAir looks forward to operating from our new facility and the advantages that will bring. As a supplier to many local compressor companies, Graves County provides a strategic location advantage for our company," said General Manager Shane Jennings. "We very much appreciate the state, county government and other agencies that provided assistance during our relocation."
In 2006, America SednAir was established in Paducah. From its warehouse, the company built its business primarily importing air coolers from its sister plants internationally and selling them in North America. It also retails locally sourced compressor parts worldwide.
Paper mills, power plants, petroleum facilities and industrial manufacturers from automotive and aerospace parts suppliers to office furniture makers use high-volume compressor systems to run pneumatic machinery and operate other equipment.
To encourage the investment and job growth in the community, the Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority in June 2013 preliminarily approved the company for tax incentives up to $150,000 through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.
In addition, America SednAir is eligible to receive resources from the Kentucky Skills Network. Through the Kentucky Skills Network, companies are eligible to receive no-cost recruitment and job placement services, reduced-cost customized training and job training incentives. Last year, the Kentucky Skills Network trained more than 84,000 employees from more than 5,600 Kentucky companies.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=38
