Public Statements
Camtech Manufacturing Solutions Opens New Facility in Science Hill
By: Matt Bevin
Date: May 22, 2017
Location: Frankfort, KY

Gov. Matt Bevin today joined Camtech Manufacturing Solutions LLC, a factory automation, machining and custom engineering services provider, in Science Hill to opening a new headquarters, which already allowed the company to grow employment from five to 20.
"One of Kentucky's great strengths is our expertise in engineering and manufacturing," said Gov. Bevin. "With companies like Camtech growing and adding jobs, the Commonwealth is expanding the pool of resources needed to help manufacturers plan, implement and begin production. I am grateful to Camtech for their significant investment in this new facility and look forward to seeing how their innovative, forward-looking approach will continue to transform Kentucky and the world, for years to come."
Among its many services, Camtech designs, engineers, builds and installs robotic cells that automate production for factories. The custom-built 16,200-square-foot facility in Science Hill provides more than twice the production and engineering space as its previous building in Somerset and nearly four times the office space.
The additional room is translating into more customers, company revenue and employees. As well, Camtech is expanding its parallel lines of business, including machining of custom parts, fabrication of factory-floor structures -- such as decks, ladders, enclosures and mezzanines -- design services and on-site engineering support for a range of manufacturing industries.
"The Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development and state government officials have been vital in enabling Camtech's access to incentive programs. I would like to thank them for their dedication in guiding us through the often complex world of the government-business partnership," said Chris Daniels, Camtech founder and president.
"From here, with our new plant and expanded workforce, we can set our goals higher and wider: To provide the highest quality, most technically advanced automated manufacturing systems in North America. We are committed to achieving that objective with an ecologically sustainable operational model and by serving the community. We are humbled to be welcomed as part this beautiful county and to represent this proud state."
Previously, Daniels managed a machine shop before leaving in 2009 and founding Camtech. Relying on his connections with Japanese automotive suppliers, Daniels built a reputation for designing and assembling systems that integrate robotic processes with production lines.
Sen. Rick Girdler, of Somerset, welcomed growth in the business community.
"I am excited to witness the growth of Camtech here in Science Hill," Sen. Girdler said. "Kentucky's manufacturing industry is booming, and many of our own home-grown companies like Camtech are at the forefront of that expansion. I thank Mr. Daniels and his company for their commitment to Kentucky's workforce and look forward to their continual success in Pulaski County."
Rep. Tommy Turner, of Somerset, said the investment reflects the strong business environment of the region.
"Helping to make it easier to create good-paying jobs for our people is what government is all about," Rep. Turner said. "Our part of the state has many great things to offer, and it's exciting to see a quality company like Camtech recognize the great potential we have."
Pulaski County Judge-Executive Steve Kelley said Camtech sets a standard for small, professional-service-oriented businesses.
"I'm glad to support business development across Pulaski County," Judge Kelley said. "It's especially significant when the business in particular is a locally founded one. Camtech's expansion of its physical footprint and addition of new employees gives us all reason anticipate their ongoing growth."
Science Hill Mayor William J. Dick said he supports and looks forward to the company's success.
"I'm proud to see our business community expanding with the new Camtech Manufacturing Solutions facility opening and its employment growing," said Mayor Dick. "I want the Daniels family and all of Camtech's employees to know their success is ours and the City of Science Hill will work alongside them to help the business continue to grow in the future."
To encourage the investment and job growth in the community, the Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) in June 2015 gave the company final approved for tax incentives up to $300,000 through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.
In addition, Camtech can receive resources from the Kentucky Skills Network. Through the Kentucky Skills Network, companies can receive no-cost recruitment and job placement services, reduced-cost customized training and job training incentives. In fiscal 2016, the Kentucky Skills Network provided training for nearly 95,000 Kentuckians and 5,000 companies from a variety of industry sectors.
For more information on Camtech, visit www.camtechengineering.com.
A detailed community profile for Pulaski County can be viewed at www.bit.ly/PulaskiCountyKy.
Information on Kentucky's economic development efforts and programs is available at ThinkKentucky.com. Fans of the Cabinet for Economic Development can also join the discussion on Facebook or follow on Twitter. Watch the Cabinet's "This is My Kentucky" video on YouTube.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=364
