Public Statements
Governor Bevin Takes Action to Restore Racial Balance on University of Louisville Board
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Jan. 14, 2016
Location: Frankfort, KY

Governor Matt Bevin today filed pleadings with the Franklin Circuit Court expressing his agreement that the composition of the University of Louisville Board of Trustees is not in compliance with Kentucky law as it lacks the minimum number of racial minority members required by KRS 164.821(5).
"Today we took a necessary step to resolve the case regarding racial imbalance on the University of Louisville Board of Trustees. The racial minority representation is insufficient and will be corrected," said Governor Bevin.
In his filings, Governor Bevin agreed with the Kentucky Justice Resource Center that, under current U.S. Census data, the University of Louisville Board of Trustees must have at least three racial minority members in order to comply with Kentucky law.
"It is my intention to comply with the requirements set by law in making appointments, not only to the University of Louisville Board of Trustees, but to every board and commission," Bevin continued.
In October, the Kentucky Justice Resource Center filed a lawsuit against then-Governor Steve Beshear, asserting that he had violated KRS 164.821(5) by failing to appoint a sufficient number of racial minority members to the University of Louisville Board of Trustees. Governor Beshear responded with a Motion to Dismiss the lawsuit. Governor Bevin today filed a Motion to withdraw that pending Motion to Dismiss, and he also filed an Answer to the Amended Complaint setting forth his position on this matter. It is Governor Bevin's desire and intention to comply with the requirements of Kentucky law in making appointments to boards and commissions.
The Governor's office will present this Motion in the Franklin Circuit Court Division II on Monday, January 25, 2016 at 9:00 AM.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=12
