Public Statements
Gov. Bevin Joins in Fight Against Controversial EPA Regulation
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: March 15, 2017
Location: Frankfort, KY

Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin has joined with 10 other states in requesting that the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reconsider a controversial regulation pushed through during President Barack Obama's final week in office.
"Our administration is proud to join this multi-state petition," said Gov. Bevin. "The RMP Rule is yet another example of the federal government attempting to solve problems at the local level and creating more such problems in the process. We do not need any more unnecessary red tape choking economic growth or the financial stability and security of our communities. Kentucky's environmental professionals are well-trained and the most qualified to determine what, if any, additional safety measures are needed on the part of industries within our state."
The Bevin Administration, along with Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Kansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, West Virginia and Wisconsin, is asking EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to reconsider the final rule on Accidental Release Prevention Requirements: Risk Management Programs Under the Clean Air Act (RMP) issued on Jan. 13, 2017, and delay the implementation of this "arbitrary, capricious" and unconstitutional regulation.
The EPA regulation affects a broad array of industries nationwide, from oil and gas refining to agriculture to general manufacturing.
"The States strongly believe  that the new RMP Rule is a deeply flawed approach that is detrimental not only to chemical safety but also to the safety of our communities as a whole," stated the letter. "The rule changes, developed with a goal of ensuring greater safety, instead create significantly greater risk. The RMP Rule threatens homeland security and local communities by requiring sensitive information about chemical and other facilities to be publicly disclosed without adequate safeguards and without any demonstrable benefits."
"The States believe these requirements reveal a serious flaw with potentially fatal consequences--a top-down approach to incident and emergency response by drafters of the rule who lack real experience in incident response that could have a cost in loss of life and property," the letter noted.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=306
