Public Statements
Gov. Bevin to Address, Recruit Businesses at SelectUSA Investment Summit in D.C.
By: Matt Bevin
Date: June 16, 2017
Location: Frankfort, KY

Gov. Matt Bevin, Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development leaders Sec. Terry Gill and Executive Officer Vivek Sarin, and officials from KentuckyUnited will attend the 2017 SelectUSA Investment Summit in Washington D.C. next week, engaging with executives from companies around the world and working to develop opportunities for investment and job creation in the state.
Gov. Bevin is scheduled to speak at the summit on Monday, reaffirming the state's commitment to building a welcoming environment for global companies and discussing the state's actions to do so. Attracting international investment creates news jobs for Kentuckians and positive economic impact for communities across the state.
"We're making tremendous strides in growing Kentucky's business community. Already this year, we shattered the commonwealth's all-time, full-year corporate investment record. Companies the world over are discovering our many advantages, including a central geographic location, a robust logistics industry, a highly skilled workforce, low energy costs, excellence in engineering and manufacturing and our increasingly strong pro-business climate," Gov. Bevin said. "Business expansion in Kentucky is on a roll and internationally owned companies -- which already employ more than 105,000 Kentuckians -- and domestic businesses alike, are taking notice."
The three-day summit begins Sunday at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center. This year's theme, "Grow with US," will focus on the nation's innovative business climate.
Terry Gill, secretary of the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, said the theme reflects across Kentucky.
"Kentucky's success in attracting new corporate investment this year puts us on track to create the highest number of new jobs in a decade," he said. "We're helping put in place innovative workforce-development programs that ensure our current and future corporate partners can hire the skilled employees they need. These efforts adjoin the many advantages our state already offers to internationally based businesses."


Source:
