Public Statements
Uniform and Textile Services Provider UniFirst Plans $12 Million Expansion in Owensboro
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Oct. 28, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin today announced UniFirst Corp., one of North America's largest workwear and textile service companies, will add up to 25 jobs to support a $12 million expansion of its Owensboro distribution center.
"The growth of UniFirst in Owensboro shows that forward-thinking companies in Kentucky are receiving the resources they need to expand. We are grateful for their continued investment in the Commonwealth," Gov. Bevin said. "We extend our congratulations to the company's local and national management teams and look forward to their continued success."
The project will add 40,000 square feet to UniFirst's existing building to total approximately 360,000 square feet of production, packing, office and shipping space. Installing state-of-the art technology will allow UniFirst to process greater volumes of goods, afford faster and more accurate response times, and further improve customer service to its 300 business customers coast-to-coast while maintaining quality. The company plans to add up to 25 employees in the next three years.
"This addition will allow us to service existing customers more efficiently and effectively as well as accommodate future business growth," said UniFirst General Manager Dave Roberts. "When we embarked on this expansion process, we looked at several options including expanding here, in other locations, or building a new facility elsewhere. Ultimately, the advantages of growing here in Owensboro -- the region's workforce, leveraging the economies of scale and building on the connection we already have with the community -- made the most sense."
Established in 1998, the Daviess County distribution and order-fulfillment center employs about 375 people, making and distributing shirts, pants, jackets, caps and safety items. The facility brands and supplies those items for global corporations.

Source:
