Public Statements
SCA to Expand Bowling Green Personal Care Plant, Add 20 Jobs
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Oct. 28, 2016
Location: Unknown

SCA, a global hygiene and forest products provider, will increase its production and product diversity in Bowling Green with a nearly $24 million investment expected to create 20 jobs, Gov. Matt Bevin announced today.
"I'm grateful that SCA, an award-winning member of the state's manufacturing sector, will increase its presence in Bowling Green. The fact that SCA chose to invest and grow its product line shows Kentucky is making the right moves to attract industry," Gov. Bevin said. "As we enhance Kentucky's workforce training programs, cut regulations that hold back companies, and improve our overall business climate, we further distinguish Kentucky as a manufacturing center of excellence where industry wants to locate and expand."
SCA currently employs 140 workers at its Warren County location, which manufactures adult incontinence products under the Tena brand name. SCA plans to install a new production line that will increase production capacity, provide new products and improve its competitiveness.
"We're proud to have been a part of the Bowling Green community for the past 28 years," said Russ Johnson, site manager at SCA. "This latest investment in the facility shows not only confidence in our team members, but also confidence in the ability of this region to continue to provide a top-notch manufacturing workforce. We are very thankful for the efforts of this community that help enable continued growth for our plant."
SCA was founded in 1929 in Sweden and has grown into a leading global hygiene and forest products company. It currently employs 44,000 people and sells products in about 100 countries. The Bowling Green operation -- established in 1988 and part of the company's North American Personal Care sector -- was fully acquired by SCA in 1995.
Sen. Mike Wilson, of Bowling Green, said the announcement shows a commitment to the local economy.
"I am pleased to hear of SCA's expansion here in Bowling Green," he said. "Not only will this additional investment create more Kentucky jobs, but it will also show other businesses that Warren County is serious about our economic partnerships."
Rep. Michael Meredith, of nearby Brownville, said SCA developed a strong relationship with the community.
"As a business with a longstanding presence in Bowling Green, I welcome the news of SCA's $24 million expansion," he said. "This investment will both create new jobs in our community and continue the momentum for our regional economy, and I thank SCA for their continued partnership with Warren County."
Bowling Green Mayor Bruce Wilkerson welcomed the company's new investment and jobs.
"The City of Bowling Green congratulates SCA on their expansion project," said Bowling Green Mayor Bruce Wilkerson. "We look forward to their growth and the impact both SCA and their employees will have on our community."
Warren County Judge Mike Buchanon said SCA's presence and additional commitment to the area are points of pride.
"We are extremely fortunate to have this industry leader in our community," said Judge Buchanon. "Their record for success on both national and international levels combined with their commitment to environmental sustainability is certainly something to be proud of. We congratulate them on their expansion project in Warren County."
To encourage the investment and job growth in the community, the Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) in September preliminarily approved the company for tax incentives up to $450,000 through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.
In addition, SCA can receive resources from the Kentucky Skills Network. Through the Kentucky Skills Network, companies can receive no-cost recruitment and job placement services, reduced-cost customized training and job training incentives. Last year, the Kentucky Skills Network trained more than 84,000 employees from more than 5,600 Kentucky companies.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=181
