Public Statements
Hopkinsville-Based Bed Wood and Parts to Expand, Add 42 Jobs
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Oct. 26, 2016
Location: Frankfort, KY

Bed Wood and Parts LLC, an automotive aftermarket supplier of domestic and exotic wood bed kits for pickup trucks, plans a $3.7 million expansion of its operation near Hopkinsville, a project expected to create 42 full-time jobs, Gov. Matt Bevin announced today.
"Bed Wood and Parts exemplifies what we hope small companies in Kentucky achieve with the Commonwealth's business initiatives," Gov. Bevin said. "This expansion will see the company grow from a local startup into a recognized go-to source in its industry. The substantial increase in employment also will benefit residents in Christian County. I want to thank Bed Wood and Parts for its commitment to south western Kentucky and to the state."
Located between the Hopkinsville and Crofton, Bed Wood and Parts plans to more than double its square footage to nearly 23,000 feet and add new equipment. The expansion will spike its employment from six to 48 full-time workers and help meet increasing demand from customers.
"Bed Wood and Parts' new manufacturing space and equipment allows us to increase our core production capabilities in key areas, provide enhanced operational efficiencies and exceed customer expectations for rapid order fulfillment, better meeting the needs of our customers," said Bed Wood and Parts founder and CEO Jeff Major. "Our team is excited about the growth we are experiencing in Kentucky and this expansion represents a commitment to continue to build on the success our team has accomplished."
Since locating in Christian County in 2006, Bed Wood and Parts grew its product lineup to include more than 20 species of wood for classic truck, SUV and station wagon restoration and modification projects. Major founded the company after recognizing the need for manufactured accessory components while working on a personal custom truck project. Major's passion evolved into a thriving business providing, among other products, a real wood bed liner named RetroLiner® for all General Motors, Dodge, Ford and other pickup trucks that have a metal bed floor.
The company also plans to distribute various products online through both Wal-Mart and Amazon, including the patented WoodBone® Tailgate Butcher Block, which fits across the inside of truck tailgates. The product is seeing increased popularity among hunters and for athletic and motorsports-event tailgating.
Sen. Whitney Westerfield, of Pembroke, noted the jobs that will be added within the region.
"I am pleased to hear of Bed Wood and Parts' expansion," Sen. Westerfield said. "This move by and established economic partner in our community will bring even more jobs and opportunities to our region, and I thank this dedicated company for its vested interest in Christian County."
Rep. Myron Dossett, of Hopkinsville, acknowledged the company's commitment to the community.
"Bed Wood and Parts has long played a vital role in our community, and I am thrilled to learn of this new expansion," he said. "This $3.7 million investment will not only create 42 high-wage jobs, but provide a positive economic boost for our community. This news adds to Bed Wood and Parts' already positive reputation in our area, and I am confident their partnership with Christian County will only continue to strengthen."
Christian County Judge-Executive Steve Tribble shared his enthusiasm about the announcement.
"We are pleased to see Bed Wood and Parts make a significant investment in Christian County," Judge Tribble said. "We are very proud of the company's growth and investment in our region."
To encourage the investment and job growth in the community, the Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) in August preliminarily approved the company for tax incentives up to $1 million through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.
In addition, Bed Wood and Parts can receive resources from the Kentucky Skills Network. Through the Kentucky Skills Network, companies can receive no-cost recruitment and job placement services, reduced-cost customized training and job training incentives. Last year, the Kentucky Skills Network trained more than 84,000 employees from more than 5,600 Kentucky companies.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=201
