Public Statements
Gov. Bevin Congratulates HAHN Automation on Opening Expanded Facility, Creating 20 jobs in Northern Kentucky
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Oct. 13, 2016
Location: Frankfort, KY

Gov. Matt Bevin today congratulated HAHN Automation Inc., a Germany-based full-service supplier of custom automation equipment for the automotive, household and pharmaceutical industries, on opening its expanded manufacturing operations in Northern Kentucky.
In 2013, HAHN Automation announced its plans to invest $3 million for an expansion in Hebron that would create 20 full-time jobs.
"HAHN Automation has been an excellent corporate partner to the Commonwealth for 15 years," said Gov. Bevin. "The automotive and pharmaceutical industries, two areas of strength for Hahn, help drive Kentucky's economy, and this latest expansion highlights the company's continued commitment to the state and the Northern Kentucky region."
HAHN Automation's 21,000-square-foot expansion accommodates future growth and brings the facility's total size to 46,000 square feet. The construction project broke ground in May and will finish this month. As originally designed, the facility's layout accommodated a potential expansion such as the one celebrated today.
"We are excited to start the next phase of our growth in Northern Kentucky, which has been a tremendous source of talented workforce, quality customers and strong partnerships," said John Baines, president of HAHN Automation. "Our expansion is the result of the tremendous growth and success we've achieved as a leading advanced manufacturing company."
Founded in Germany in 1992 by Thomas Hӓhn and Stephan Dillenburg, HAHN Automation provides engineering services to manufacturers. The company now provides complete design and manufacturing of industrial automation systems. Its products range from simple manual workstations to sophisticated, fully automated assembly and inspection lines.
HAHN established its Hebron operation in 2001 where it employs 75 full-time workers, 50 of whom are Kentucky residents.
Sen. John Schickel, of Union, shared gratitude for the project.
"The successful expansion of HAHN Automation is great news for Hebron and Northern Kentucky," Sen. Schickel said. "Yet again our state has proven to be competitive on a global scale, and I am pleased to see this company continue to invest in our local and state economy."
Rep. Diane St. Onge, of Lakeside Park, said the expansion will build on an already strong relationship with the community.
"I want to congratulate HAHN Automation for this major milestone, and thank them for their commitment to our region," she said. "We are home to a hardworking and dedicated workforce that will continue to partner well with HAHN Automation in the expansion. I look forward to working with their business in the future and seeing continued success for them and for our community."
Boone County Judge-Executive Gary Moore said the project reflects on the area's advanced manufacturing prowess.
"Congratulations to HAHN Automation," he said. "We are proud to be a worldwide location for a company that is at the forefront of innovation in advanced manufacturing. HAHN's growth truly highlights the strength of advanced manufacturing in our region and the success of NKY Boost, Tri-ED's business retention and expansion program. We look forward to continued partner and additional opportunities with HAHN in Northern Kentucky."
To encourage the investment and job growth in the community, the Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) preliminarily approved the company for tax incentives up to $400,000 through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.
Additionally, KEDFA approved HAHN Automation for up to $100,000 in tax incentives through the Kentucky Enterprise Initiative Act (KEIA). KEIA allows approved companies to recoup Kentucky sales and use tax on construction costs, building fixtures, equipment used in research and development and electronic processing.
HAHN Automation also can receive resources from the Kentucky Skills Network. Through the Kentucky Skills Network, companies can receive no-cost recruitment and job placement services, reduced-cost customized training and job training incentives.
Last year, the Kentucky Skills Network trained more than 84,000 employees from more than 5,600 Kentucky companies.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=196
