Public Statements
Lakeshore Learning Materials to locate distribution center in Midway, create 262 full-time jobs
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Aug. 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin today announced Lakeshore Learning Materials, a developer and retailer of high-quality educational products, will locate a distribution center in Woodford County's Midway Station industrial park with an investment of more than $47.4 million projected to create 262 full-time jobs.
"Over the past 60 years, Lakeshore Learning Materials has established itself as a highly regarded brand in the world of education," Gov. Bevin said. "This multi-generational family company is a great fit for the Commonwealth. Their core values are well aligned with Kentucky values. Their community orientation, history of product innovation, and deep roots in both entrepreneurism and education are exemplary. It's with great joy that we welcome Lakeshore to Kentucky and thank them for choosing to invest and create jobs in the Bluegrass region."
Lakeshore's construction of a 500,000-square-foot fulfillment and distribution facility in Midway will allow the company to be more centrally located to its customers. Company leaders expect the building will be operational by November 2017.
"Lakeshore was drawn to Kentucky by its wonderful sense of community and the state's rich history of supporting families, education and businesses like ours," said Bo Kaplan, Lakeshore's president and CEO. "We truly feel like we've found a home here, and we can't wait to become an active part of the Midway community."
Ethelyn Kaplan, a homemaker from Omaha, Neb., founded Lakeshore after relocating her family to Oakland, Calif. to open a toy store in 1954. The business soon began focusing on learning materials, moving to Carson, Calif., and launching its first catalog in 1958. Lakeshore started developing its own products in 1988, and today the company provides teachers and parents with innovative educational products for children from birth through sixth grade. Lakeshore now employs more than 2,000 people across the U.S. and is in its third generation of Kaplan-family ownership.

Source:
