Public Statements
Gov. Matt Bevin Joins Suit to Protect Kentuckians and Physicians from New Illegal Obamacare Mandate
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Aug. 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin today joined a lawsuit against yet another Obama Administration regulatory overreach that affects Kentucky's taxpayers and violates the medical judgment and conscience rights of doctors and health care professionals across the country.
"The Obama Administration continues its attacks on the constitutional rights and religious freedoms of Kentuckians," said Gov. Bevin. "It is both appalling and illegal for the federal government to force Kentucky taxpayers to foot the bill for sex-change operations. That is a ridiculous misuse of power by the Obama administration. I intend to fight this type of liberal foolishness at every turn and will stand firm in protecting the rights and values of Kentuckians."
Last month, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services implemented a new rule "interpreting" the definition of "sex" within the Affordable Care Act. As the Obama Administration has attempted to do in other instances, this new rule interprets "sex" as a state of mind, not a biological fact. When it enacted the law, Congress used the term "sex" as a biological category. The Obama Administration is now trying to redefine the law so that the term "sex" means ones' "internal sense of gender which may be male, female, neither, or a combination of male and female." But the President does not have the power to rewrite law.
The impact of this new rule on Kentucky and health care workers is significant. Not only does the rule require taxpayers to fund all treatments designed to transition to a different sex, it also forces health care workers, including physicians, to provide controversial services. Under the new rule, a physician who believes that certain treatments are not in a patient's best medical interests may be in violation of federal law. And a physician who, for religious or conscientious reasons cannot perform a particular procedure, chooses to instead refer a patient to another health care provider may also be determined to be in violation of this new rule.
Kentucky taxpayer dollars will not fund this lawsuit.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=145
