Public Statements
Louisville Plate Glass Opens New Production Facility, Plans to add up to 90 Jobs
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Aug. 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin today congratulated Louisville Plate Glass, a century-old manufacturer of architectural window and building-panel glass, on opening a $5 million production facility, a project expected add up to 90 jobs.
"Louisville Plate Glass is setting a great example for all manufacturers by recognizing and acting on an opportunity to expand. The result is the creation of 90 new jobs in Kentucky," Gov. Bevin said. "In addition to providing state-of-the art manufacturing space, this new facility also increases LPG's capacity and product range. We applaud this innovative vision and look forward to the company's continued success."
During a ceremony today, U.S., state, local and company officials cut a ribbon on LPG's 60,000-square-foot building at 4301 Chefs Way in Louisville's Newburg neighborhood. The facility adds manufacturing space and, for the first time, a glass-tempering line, a high-capacity automated cutting line, and water-jet fabrication, enabling production of heavy glass doors and fabricated shower enclosures. Previously, LPG purchased pre-tempered glass sheets to fabricate its high-strength products.
"We couldn't be more thrilled than to open our new manufacturing plant today," said LPG President Bill Stone. "This new facility and the hires we're making to staff it will help us even better serve our market footprint in the central U.S. Most important, by our actions today we have secured an iconic Louisville company for decades into the future."
Founded in 1911, LPG manufactures insulated glass, heavy laminated glass and spandrel or opaque glass used to mask floor slabs and building mechanicals in glass-walled buildings. It also distributes building panels, flat glass and fire-rated safety glass. Its customers include contractors and construction companies throughout Kentucky, Indiana, Ohio and Tennessee.
Stone repurchased LPG in 2009 during the Great Recession from United Glass Corp, a company in which he was a founder. His partners had wanted to shutter LPG and turn over its markets to their Atlanta facility. However, Stone felt an obligation to his staff to restore LPG to its status as a major industry player. The result was a comeback. LPG revived its sales and employment following the Great Recession.
With the new location in the works, Stone sold LPG earlier this year to Florida-based Aldora Aluminum & Glass Products as a matter of succession planning. The Louisville facilities and products are keeping the LPG name. Aldora has facilities in Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Orlando as well as Charleston, S.C. and Charlotte, N.C.
During the company's ribbon cutting event today in Louisville, Kentucky Education and Workforce Development Cabinet Secretary Hal Heiner spoke on behalf of Gov. Bevin.
"I want to salute Bill Stone for once again bringing great jobs and economic opportunity to Kentucky," Sec. Heiner said. "His commitment to our commonwealth is unsurpassed -- both as a model business leader and as a tireless civic advocate. Bill has dedicated his life to moving Kentucky forward, and I am proud to celebrate this historic day with him and the Louisville Plate Glass family."
Sen. Denise Harper Angel, of Louisville, welcomed the new facility and said the local workforce is ready to fill any jobs openings.
"Louisville and Jefferson County welcome the growth and new jobs at Louisville Plate Glass' new production facility," she said. "Our community has a skilled workforce ready to meet the company's future labor needs. Louisville Plate Glass has been a good corporate partner and we look forward to continuing that relationship."
Rep. Tom Burch, of Louisville, expressed gratitude for the company's decision to expand its Louisville presence.
"I'm extremely pleased to see Louisville Plate Glass take this step and invest so much while adding these new jobs," he said. "This is great news for our community, and I want to thank our local and state economic development officials for helping to make this possible."
Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer said LPG has been a long-time corporate citizen in the city's advanced manufacturing sector.
"With the addition of a new facility with state-of-the-art capabilities, I am confident that LPG has strategically aligned itself for great future success," Mayor Fischer said in a statement congratulating the company. "With its roots in Louisville dating back to 1911, we are thrilled that LPG continues to expand and grow its workforce where it first began."
To encourage LPG's investment and job growth in the community, Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) in December 2015 preliminarily approved the company for up to $650,000 in tax incentives through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.
In addition, LPG can receive resources from the Kentucky Skills Network. Through the Kentucky Skills Network, companies can receive no-cost recruitment and job placement services, reduced-cost customized training and job training incentives. Last year, the Kentucky Skills Network trained more than 84,000 employees from more than 5,600 Kentucky companies.
For more information on LPG, visit www.louisvilleplateglass.com.
A detailed community profile for Louisville can be viewed at www.bit.ly/LouisvilleJeffersonCo.
Information on Kentucky's economic development efforts and programs is available at www.ThinkKentucky.com. Fans of the Cabinet for Economic Development can also join the discussion on Facebook or follow on Twitter. Watch the Cabinet's "This is My Kentucky" video on YouTube.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=135
