Public Statements
Perry County Sanitation District No. 1 Receives $500,000 Appalachian Regional Commission Grant
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Aug. 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

The Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) approved funding for a $500,000 grant for the Perry County Sanitation District No. 1. Funds will be used to expand and upgrade the area's existing wastewater collection system to provide sewer service for 30 households and the Chavies Elementary School.
"Providing better infrastructure in Kentucky's Appalachian-region communities is one of our administration's highest priorities," said Gov. Matt Bevin. "Through this expansion and upgrade, we are making sure the elementary school students, as well as every other citizen of communities like Chavies, have proper access to these critical services."
The proposed project is Phase I of four planned phases to add customers until the entire community of Chavies is provided wastewater service. The project will install 11,245 linear feet of sewer force main, 30 grinder pumps and one lift station to serve Kentucky Highway 28 area from Combs Branch Road to the Chavies Elementary School, including the Noodle Creek Area.
"It is great to see this funding approved by the Appalachian Regional Commission for the Perry County Sanitation District No. 1," Sen. Brandon Smith said. "With this $500,000 upgrade to our sewer service and wastewater collection system, it will certainly improve the quality of life for those in the district. I appreciate the consideration from the ARC."
Applications for ARC funds, available to Kentucky's 54 most eastern and south-central counties, are submitted to DLG. To learn more, visit https://kydlgweb.ky.gov/FederalGrants/ARC.cfm.
The Appalachian Regional Commission (www.arc.gov) is an economic development agency of the federal government and 13 state governments focusing on 420 counties across the Appalachian Region. ARC's mission is to innovate, partner, and invest to build community capacity and strengthen economic growth in Appalachia to help the Region achieve socioeconomic parity with the nation.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=133
