Public Statements
Thoroughbred Aviation Maintenance to Add 15-Job Location in Eastern Kentucky
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: June 9, 2017
Location: Frankfort, KY

Gov. Matt Bevin announced today Thoroughbred Aviation Maintenance Inc., which provides aircraft maintenance, avionics, painting and structural repair, along with overhauling and refurbishment, will open a 15-employee operation at Big Sandy Regional Airport in Martin County.
"We are excited to see this continued growth of Kentucky-based Thoroughbred Aviation Maintenance," Gov. Bevin said. "This new Martin County facility is further proof that Kentucky offers the qualified workforce and resources needed to support our growing aviation and aerospace industry. We are grateful to Thoroughbred for its commitment to multiple operations around our state and wish the company well in all its future ventures."
Thoroughbred, headquartered in Georgetown, has purchased a hangar in Martin County to house the new operation. The location will help Thoroughbred service clients and attract new business in Eastern Kentucky, Southeast Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia.
"We at Thoroughbred Aviation Maintenance are excited to bring the first aviation repair service to this region and to establish new employment opportunities for the Eastern Kentucky workforce," said Todd Case, president of Thoroughbred Aviation Maintenance.
"We realize this region has one of the most talented workforces in the country and will help our business grow."
Founded in 1988 as Thoroughbred Helicopters, the company sold to RJ Corman Railroad Group in 2005 and was renamed RJ Corman Aircraft Maintenance. In the past several years, it grew steadily, adding services including avionics, aircraft painting, refurbishments and a wide array of parts sales.
In 2016, Case and his business partner, Joe Otte, Thoroughbred's vice president, acquired the company and reinstated the Thoroughbred name. It currently operates four Kentucky locations: Georgetown, Danville, Somerset and Richmond. Clients include private and corporate general-aviation fixed wing and helicopter customers, primarily in Kentucky, Tennessee and Ohio. Thoroughbred also maintains contracts with flight schools, federal government agencies and law enforcement departments in Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee, Indiana, Arkansas and Illinois.
Sen. Ray Jones, of Pikeville, said officials are ready to help the company succeed in the region.
"This is welcome news. The investment and commitment to locate an aviation maintenance facility in Martin County will provide much-needed jobs and a boost to the economy. The community is also prepared to assist Thoroughbred and stands ready with a dedicated workforce to meet any labor needs. We look forward to seeing the company grow and prosper."
Rep. Chris Harris, of Forest Hills, noted the significance of the company's presence in the region.
"Todd Case is a real asset to Eastern Kentucky and I'm grateful he is making this commitment to bring these new jobs to Martin Count," Rep. Harris said. "Aviation has tremendous potential in Kentucky and it's exciting to see new viable ventures like Thoroughbred Aviation taking off in our region."
Martin County Judge-Executive Kelly Callaham commented on the company's leadership.
"Thanks to One East Kentucky for their assistance with this project. Thoroughbred Aviation will be of great help to our airport. Todd Case and his team are wonderful people," Judge-Executive Callaham said.
"The aviation and aerospace industry is a top target for our organization and region. I'm extremely excited that Thoroughbred is our first announcement in this sector to kick off the aggressive recruitment of this industry. We are happy to have partnered with Thoroughbred to secure $88,000 from AEP Kentucky Power's KEAP Grant program, which was developed to specifically assist economic development projects like this one," said One East Kentucky President and CEO Chuck Sexton.
For more information on Thoroughbred Aviation Maintenance, visit www.ThoroughbredAviationMaintenance.com.
A detailed community profile for Martin County can be viewed at http://bit.ly/MartinCounty.
Information on Kentucky's economic development efforts and programs is available at ThinkKentucky.com. Fans of the Cabinet for Economic Development can also join the discussion on Facebook or follow on Twitter. Watch the Cabinet's "This is My Kentucky" video on YouTube.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=380
