Public Statements
Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Certification Program Announced
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: Aug. 5, 2016
Location: Unknown

Today Gov. Matt Bevin, Finance and Administration Cabinet Sec. William M. Landrum III, bill sponsors State Representatives Dean Schamore and Russell Webber, and Department of Veteran Affairs Commissioner Norman R. Arflack participated in the kickoff announcement of the new Kentucky Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (KySDVOSB) Certification program that became effective July 15.
"A key objective of this administration is to promote a robust economic climate in Kentucky. This will help businesses to create an abundance of quality job opportunities," said Gov. Bevin. "As a military veteran, small business owner and Governor, I am honored to support other veterans in their entrepreneurial endeavors, especially through this newly established Certification Program."
The SDVOSB Certification Program was created by House Bill 183 and is modeled after the Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprise (MWBE) program administered by the Finance and Administration Cabinet.
"In my 30 years of military service, I saw the triumphs and sacrifices our men and women in uniform, along with their families, made for our country," said Sec. Landrum. "I am extremely pleased to bring this program to our veterans, most especially our service-disabled veterans."
"Kentucky veterans are fortunate to have veteran-dedicated and forward-thinking leaders like Governor Bevin and Secretary Landrum always seeking ways to ensure our veterans can succeed in civilian life," said Norman Arflack, Commissioner of the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs.
In order to apply for certification, a disabled veteran must provide proof of his or her disability. Kentucky's application process is streamlined if the SDVOSB is already verified and in good standing with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Center for Verification and Evaluation, Veterans First Verification Program.
The application is online at vetbiz.ky.gov.
Kistler Consulting, LLC, a construction company that is certified at the federal level, is the first company to submit an application for state certification.
"I was surprised to learn veteran owned businesses were not included in the Commonwealth's diversity programs when I started Kistler Consulting, LLC in 2014. I would like to thank Governor Bevin and everyone who participated in creating House Bill 183. I look forward to exploring the opportunities this new program will present."
"I was proud to sponsor this legislation, because I believe we should do all we can to help those who sacrificed so much for our country," said state Rep. Dean Schamore of Hardinsburg. "Making the public more aware of businesses owned by these brave men and women will hopefully encourage more customers to shop with them. I'm positive this will have a major impact as the program moves forward."
"I am honored to have played a key role in the creation of the Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Program, which will promote expansion among SDVOSBs in Kentucky," said Rep. Russell Webber, R-Shepherdsville, the main co-sponsor of the bill and whose district includes Fort Knox. "As a businessman myself, I am very committed to economic growth in Kentucky. My district includes many veterans, to which I am grateful for their service, and humbled to make available this type of entrepreneurial opportunity."
Nearly 60 Kentucky companies are already certified at the federal level and are encouraged to apply for Kentucky certification as the process will be streamlined for them. Approximately 70 companies have self-identified themselves as service-disabled in the state's procurement system. KySDVOSB staff has contacted these companies to let them know about Kentucky's new program. All SDVOSB companies in Kentucky are encouraged to apply.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=132
