Public Statements
Netherlands-Based Eurotrol to Create 10 to 15 Jobs in Elizabethtown
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: July 14, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin today announced Eurotrol, a Netherlands-based supplier of medical quality-control products, plans to build a state-of-the-art distribution center in Elizabethtown that will initially create 10 to 15 full-time jobs.
"Healthcare as an industry continues to gain momentum across the Commonwealth, and innovative companies like Eurotrol are the primary reason for that growth," said Gov. Bevin. "This company's sole purpose is to improve the accuracy and efficiency of healthcare services. That's a mission we can all appreciate and support. Elizabethtown will make a great fit for Eurotrol as it provides an abundance of logistical advantages. We look forward to assisting Eurotrol here in Kentucky to help ensure their continued success for many years to come."
Eurotrol will build a 10,000-square-foot facility in the T.J. Patterson Industrial Park on North Black Branch Road in Elizabethtown. Company leaders expect to break ground late this year and anticipate expansions in the future. The facility will serve as the Eurotrol's principle distribution hub for North, Central and South America, receiving and shipping equipment that ensures the accuracy and precision of laboratory instruments used to test patients' blood.
Company leaders cited Elizabethtown's central location and access to the UPS Worldport hub in Louisville as deciding factors in choosing the location. For Eurotrol, efficient and timely shipping is essential for its sensitive products.
"This investment in distribution infrastructure puts Eurotrol in a strong position to take on larger manufacturing commitments and, at the same time, more effectively distribute our products to customers worldwide," said Bart Maas, the company's president and owner. "In addition, this will increase the quality of healthcare."
Dr. Anton Maas, a clinical chemist in Netherlands, founded Eurotrol in 1988. Currently, Eurotrol has developed more than 300 products, many of which are one-of-a-kind, that cover a wide range of medical tests. Its products are used primarily by hospital clinical laboratories and point-of-care sites. The company supplies all major European countries, the U.S., Japan, Australia and Canada and other nations.
Sen. Dennis Parrett, of Elizabethtown, said Eurotrol will be a great fit with the community's skilled workforce.
"I join the Hardin County community in welcoming Eurotrol to Elizabethtown," Sen. Parrett said. "Our community stands ready to fill the job needs with dedicated and skilled workers. We appreciate Eurotrol's investment in our community and look forward to a long, profitable relationship."
Rep. Jim DuPlessis, of Elizabethtown, congratulated the company and said the new facility will contribute to the area's economy.
"The addition of Eurotrol in Elizabethtown is very exciting for our community and our families," he said. "Eurotrol is a leader in the healthcare industry and will bring an array of employment opportunities to our region. This type of economic growth is paramount to the success of our community, and our Commonwealth."
Elizabethtown Mayor Edna Berger welcomed the company to the city.
"This is wonderful news for our city," Mayor Berger said. "We wholeheartedly welcome Eurotrol to our community and look forward to celebrating with them as they break ground."
Hardin County Judge-Executive Harry Berry said companies like Eurotrol are essential to the growth of a strong local economy.
"Establishment of Eurotrol's operations in our community is a welcomed addition to our industrial and manufacturing family," he said. "Attracting and keeping growing companies is essential to a community's economic development, and a qualified and dependable workforce is the key to successful employers. The marriage of our strong workforce with a growing company like Eurotrol is an excellent match for both them and our community."
For more information on Eurotrol, visit www.Eurotrol.com.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=128
