Public Statements
Gov. Bevin, More Than A Bakery Execs Break Ground on 310-Job Facility in Versailles
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: July 11, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin today joined local officials and representatives from More Than A Bakery LLC., an extension of a century-old family business based in Indiana, to break ground on a 310-employee facility in Versailles.
More Than A Bakery, affiliated with Richmond Baking Co., plans to invest about $57.1 million in its new operation. The bakery will produce cookies, crackers and other baked goods by contract for major food brands and retailers.
"Today is a significant day for More Than A Bakery and the people of Woodford County," said Gov. Bevin. "The promise of 310 jobs gives us reason to celebrate. The company's significant investment in the local economy makes this groundbreaking event all the sweeter. We appreciate the determination and growth of multi-generational family companies like Richmond Baking and wish the company many years of continued success."
Construction of More Than A Bakery's 250,000- to 300,000-square-foot building at Big Sink Road and Fieldview Drive in Versailles will begin in mid-August and company leaders expect the facility to open by the end of 2017. The plant will locate on more than 100 acres to allow for future expansion. More Than A Bakery represents Richmond Baking's third world-class bakery and distribution operation.
"Our family members are very excited about this new facility in Woodford County. This bakery will allow us to expand our capacity, serve our customers and create a very unique work experience for the citizens of this region. We plan to be a good neighbor in this area for quite a long time," said Bill Quigg, president of Richmond Baking.
The Quigg family purchased a neighborhood bakery in Richmond, Ind. in 1902 which produced cookies, breads and cakes. The bakery traces its beginnings back to 1855 with the opening of David Hoerner's bakery. The Quiggs grew the company nationally adding operations in Richmond, Ind. and Alma, Ga. employing nearly 350 workers.

Source:
