Public Statements
Logan Corp. to Hire 70 Employees for Newly Purchased Salyersville Manufacturing Plant
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: July 6, 2016
Location: Unknown

On the brink of closure only a year ago, Logan Corp.'s mining equipment plant in eastern Kentucky will move to a new building five times its current size, invest $2.6 million and hire 70 new employees to meet soaring demand for its new line of custom dump truck beds, Gov. Matt Bevin announced today.
"The turnaround of Logan Corp.'s eastern Kentucky shop exemplifies both innovative leadership and workforce flexibility," said Gov. Bevin. "It's important to recognize the regional effort it took to make this move feasible for Logan, with buy-in and collaboration from development and community partners in a multi-county area. We want to thank everyone involved, especially Logan's leadership team, for making this project a successful reality."
The Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) last week approved a loan and incentive package so Logan can move from its 27,000 square-foot Martin County facility to a 137,000 square-foot building in nearby Magoffin County. The company plans to keep its current 47 employees and hire 70 additional workers. The new building, a recently closed mining-related facility, is within commuting distance of the current one and could go operational this fall.
"In spring 2015 we were running the numbers to figure out how we could stay in business. The mining industry was going off a cliff," said John G. Horn, Logan senior vice president. "We had laid off people and were doing just a fraction of the business we had five years prior."
Turning to their previous experience in the truck-body industry, Horn and Randy Risner, Logan's general manager of manufacturing and engineering, decided to design and build custom dump truck beds. By Christmas they'd hired two sales people and orders poured in. The shop has delivered about 150 finished trucks but maintains a log of 150 orders. Because the current building is too small, they've turned away additional business.

Source:
