Public Statements
600 Jobs Now Available in Rockcastle County
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: June 17, 2016
Location: Unknown

Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) Co-Chairs U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers and Gov. Matt Bevin recently announced more than 600 jobs are now available at SourceHOV in Mount Vernon, Kentucky.
"We are thankful for SourceHOV's continued investment in Kentucky. We look forward to the further benefits that will come as they expand our relationship and partner with SOAR to provide jobs in our eastern counties," said Gov. Matt Bevin. "We are working every day to make the Commonwealth the best place in America to do business, and are grateful to SourceHOV for leading the way for others to follow."
CSRA was awarded a competitive federal contract from the Department of Veterans Affairs and subcontracted the work to SourceHOV to help digitize records and reduce the nationwide backlog of Veterans' claims.
"Our best resource is our people and this jobs announcement is a testament to the talent, hard-work and dedication of our workforce in southern and eastern Kentucky," said Congressman Hal Rogers. "I applaud SourceHOV for investing in our region and providing good jobs for more than two decades. It's this type of commitment that lets other companies know that Kentucky's Appalachian region is a great place to do business."
Dallas-based SourceHOV is partnering with the SOAR initiative by creating more jobs in southern and eastern Kentucky, as it continues to expand its transaction processing capabilities. SourceHOV is now hiring general clerks, team leads and quality assurance specialists with pay rates beginning at $10.52 an hour.
"SourceHOV has been a part of the Mount Vernon community for more than 24 years and contributes more than $11M to the Commonwealth of Kentucky," said Ron Cogburn, CEO of SourceHOV. "We're excited to expand operations in the area and offer even more opportunities."
About SOAR: SOAR is a network of Kentucky's Appalachian region, uniting 54 counties to expand job creation, enhance regional innovation, and improve the quality of life. Learn more about SOAR at soar-ky.org.
About SourceHOV: SourceHOV is a global Transaction Processing Services and Enterprise Information Management leader. SourceHOV provides services and solutions for high-volume, mission-critical organizations seeking to drive efficiency with their business processes. By leveraging specialized knowledge platforms that are powered by decades of expertise and customer-specific experience, we deliver innovative end-to-end solutions, incorporating data aggregation, workflow, analytics, payment processing, exception management and outcome resolutions.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=107
