Public Statements
El Toro Cuts Ribbon on New HQ in Louisville, Plans 60 New
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: June 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin congratulated executives from El Toro Internet Marketing LLC today for officially opening the company's new, larger headquarters, a $2.1 million project creating space for 60 new jobs.
"We are delighted to support El Toro's continued presence and growth in Louisville," said Gov. Bevin. "Kentucky offers many advantages for tech companies and El Toro is a great example of a company that has recognized and capitalized on those advantages."
Demand for El Toro's services from commercial customers in the automotive, health care and higher education space, and anticipated growth in political advertising campaigns fueled the company's search for a larger office. El Toro, which opened on Louisville's Distillery Commons district three years ago, renovated new office space at 124 N. 1st St. in the Whiskey Row neighborhood. The company currently employs 35 people. It expects to add the new jobs over the coming four years.
"There's a whole concept of density that we're seeing emerge in the Louisville tech community," said Stacy Griggs, El Toro president and CEO. "We need density and we're willing to help build it. My colleagues and I believe it's vital to build a robust community of technology companies -- to meet people, make introductions, make connections and discuss ideas. Higher density of tech companies makes this easier, that is why we chose to move downtown."
"Our employees love being downtown. The energy and after-work entertainment are simply fantastic for our staff," added David Stadler, vice president of ad operations and co-founder of El Toro.
El Toro helps advertisers target their audiences digitally by matching IP addresses to physical locations. This allows advertisers to aim messages at specific groups, such as college campuses, businesses and zip codes. Though political advertising made up less than 10 percent of El Toro's 2015 business, the company is seeing a significant increase this year as it continues to distinguish itself as an indispensable campaign-trail service.

Source:
