Public Statements
Pride Industries to Create 10 Jobs With Expansion in Union County
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: June 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin today announced Pride Industries Inc., an architectural building products manufacturer and installer, will expand its Union County operation with a $150,000 investment that will create 10 full-time jobs.
"When a Kentucky based, family owned company decides to reinvest and diversify with new products, we will do everything in our power to ensure that growth occurs right here at home," Gov. Bevin said. "The addition of Pride Industries' new production line not only means new jobs for north western Kentucky, but establishes the company as a leading source for aluminum composite metal wall panels which are increasingly in demand. We extend our congratulations to Pride and Union County on this expansion and look forward to many more years of continued growth in the future."
Pride's decision to expand comes in response to the rise in popularity of aluminum composite metal (ACM) wall panels. The company plans to buy new equipment to begin an ACM panel production line. ACM panels offer a well-insulated, affordable alternative to insulated sandwich panels often used on commercial buildings.
"With the purchase of the CNT Motion Systems Table Router System, we intend to diversify our established product line by entering into the aluminum composite metal ACM wall panel and architectural metal accessories markets," said company CEO Bart Pride. "We will provide a single source for fabrication and installation services that the growing markets in the region require. By turning product lead times from weeks into days, we will be able to more efficiently deliver an installed product in a schedule-driven industry."
Family-owned Pride Industries established in north western Kentucky in 1978 as a commercial insulation company specializing in sprayed cellulose insulation. In 1984, the company created Ultra Seam, which started as a marketing group and grew into a nationally recognized architectural metal roofing brand. Currently, two other Ultra Seam manufacturers, based in North Carolina and California, fabricate ACM panels.
Sen. Dorsey Ridley, of Henderson, offered his congratulations to Pride Industries for its expansion.
"Our region welcomes the growth and the new business that will be generated, and stands ready with a skilled workforce to meet any future needs," Sen. Ridley said. "Pride Industries has been a good corporate partner and we look forward to continuing that relationship to the benefit of the company, the community and the region."
Rep. Suzanne Miles, of Owensboro, welcomed the company's investment and new jobs.
"It's great to see a local company adding jobs as it introduces a new product to its Union County facility," she said. "I commend Pride Industries on its vision and congratulate it for following it through."
Union County Judge-Executive Jody Jenkins expressed gratitude for the new jobs coming to the community.
"I am very pleased that Pride Industries has chosen to expand at its location here in Union County," Judge Jenkins said. "As a result, it will allow us to have more people from our area going to work. The addition of new jobs is always welcomed and exciting news."
Donna Crooks, Kyndle interim president and vice president of economic development, said her organization takes pride in its role to help cater the new investment.
"It's always an exciting time when an existing company expands and chooses to grow its business here. Pride Industries is a great example of that," Crooks said. "Kyndle is proud to have had a hand in helping them with the expansion of their Union County operation resulting in capital investment and new job creation."
To encourage the investment and job growth in the community, the Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) in May preliminarily approved the company for tax incentives up to $100,000 through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.
In addition, Pride can receive resources from the Kentucky Skills Network. Through the Kentucky Skills Network, companies are eligible to receive no-cost recruitment and job placement services, reduced-cost customized training and job training incentives. Last year, the Kentucky Skills Network trained more than 84,000 employees from more than 5,600 Kentucky companies.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=94
