Public Statements
Gov. Bevin Makes Appointments to Kentucky Boards and Commissions
Press Release
By: Matt Bevin
Date: May 13, 2016
Location: Unknown

Gov. Matt Bevin has made the following appointments to Kentucky boards and commissions:
John R. Farris has been appointed as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Kentucky Retirement Systems.
John R. Farris, of Lexington, replaces Michael E. Cherry, of Princeton, whose term expired, for a term expiring March 31, 2020.
John R. Farris is the Interim Vice President of Investments and Chief Financial Officer at Centre College and Founder and President of Commonwealth Economics and LandFund Partners.
He began his career as an economist at the Center for Economics Research at the Research Triangle Institute. Mr. Farris continued his professional career as a senior economics consultant with the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation. From 2006--2007, Mr. Farris served as Secretary of the Finance and Administration Cabinet for the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
Mr. Farris served as an adjunct Professor of Economics and Finance at Centre College in Danville,
Ky. from 2008 to 2012. He currently sits on the Board of Directors for: Green Brick Partners (NASDAQ: GRBK), Kentucky Technology Inc., Kentucky Employers' Mutual Insurance and LandFund Partners, L.P.
Mr. Farris received a full-tuition fellowship to study economics and finance at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, where he was awarded a master's degree. Before attending Princeton, Mr. Farris studied economics and philosophy at Centre College from which he graduated, Phi Beta Kappa, attaining a Bachelor of Science degree in Economics and Philosophy.
Doreen Showalter Goodwin has been appointed as Family Court Judge for the 12th Judicial Circuit, Division 2.
Doreen Showalter Goodwin, of LaGrange, replaces the Honorable Tim Feeley, who resigned, for a term expiring in November 2016.
The 12th Judicial Circuit is comprised of Henry, Oldham and Trimble counties. Goodwin is a solo law practitioner and served as the master commissioner for Oldham County. She earned her juris doctor at the University of Louisville Louis D. Brandeis School of Law.
Robert D. Neace has been appointed to the Prosecutors Advisory Council.
Boone County Attorney Bob Neace, of Union, is replacing Christian County Attorney Mike Foster, who resigned, representing county attorneys from counties with a city containing a population greater than 20,000 to serve at the pleasure of the Governor.
Jane Rice Williams has been reappointed as an Administrative Law Judge in the Department of Workers' Claims.
Jane Rice Williams, of London, will serve for a term expiring July 14, 2020.
The Governor appoints, with the consent of the Senate, for a term of four years, not more than 19 administrative law judges (ALJs), each of whom shall be an attorney and shall have five years' experience in the Commonwealth in the practice of workers' compensation law or a related field and extensive knowledge of workers' compensation law{KRS 342.230 (3).} These ALJs conduct hearings, and otherwise supervise the presentation of evidence and render final decisions, orders or awards regarding workers' compensation claims.
Robert Alred, Jr., Anthony Felosi, Danny Castle and Joseph Gluck have been appointed to the Judicial Nominating Commission for the 26th Judicial Circuit and District of Kentucky.
Robert D. Alred, Jr., of Loyall, is replacing Tina R. Blanton, Wallins, whose term expired, for a term expiring January 1, 2018.
Anthony M. Felosi, of Wallins, is replacing Rosemary Hamm, Harlan, whose term expired, for a term expiring January 1, 2018.
Danny Castle, of Harlan, is replacing Jeremy O. Jackson, Baxter, whose term expired, for a term expiring January 1, 2020.
Joseph R. Gluck, of Cumberland, is replacing Julie A. Jackson, Harlan whose term expired, for a term expiring January 1, 2020.
The 26th Judicial Circuit and District consists of Harlan County. There are currently 61 nominating commissions in Kentucky, one for the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals, one for each judicial circuit and one for each judicial district. If the circuit and district have the same boundaries, then one commission serves both.
Each judicial nominating commission (JNC) has seven (7) members and is comprised of the chief justice of Kentucky (who also serves as chair), two attorneys elected by all attorneys in the vacancy's jurisdiction and four non-attorney Kentucky citizens who are appointed by the governor. The four citizens must equally represent the two major political parties.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=91
