Public Statements
Governor to Build on Broadband and Technology Success with Third Summit
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Aug. 29, 2014
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead continues to focus on growing a technology sector and increased access to broadband in Wyoming. He is hosting the third annual Wyoming Broadband Summit on October 21st in Cheyenne.
This event brings together leaders from technology and related sectors to discuss opportunities and challenges. This year Wyoming experienced incredible growth in broadband connectivity and expects more with the creation of the Unified Network. The Unified Network creates a 100 gigabit backbone of internet connections across Wyoming.
"Momentum is building in Wyoming's technology sector. This year we saw companies expand their operations here and we started work on the Unified Network. All of this bodes well for the future -- a future with more jobs and a diversified economy," Governor Mead said. "I look forward to the summit this October where we can hear what is up and coming for the remainder of 2014 and into 2015."
The summit is co-sponsored by the State of Wyoming, the Wyoming Business Council and LinkWYOMING. This year's summit features discussions about the way broadband impacts the economy; information on mobile, wireless and other communications; and success stories from different sectors in Wyoming.
The summit will take place at Little America in Cheyenne from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. There is no charge to attend.
"Broadband is recognized as an essential utility for the general public and for private businesses,' said Broadband Enterprise Architect Troy Babbitt. "Broadband is the underlying infrastructure that allows Wyoming citizens to get connected to the internet. Citizens have the opportunity to live and work in our great state, as well as compete in the global economy. The Governor's Summit is a great event that showcases all of the broadband initiatives taking place across the state to help attract new high tech industries, while increasing capacity for existing companies and individuals."
Initiatives from last year's summit include the Governor's Easement Task Force, which advises fiber construction projects within highway right-of-ways.
To register for the summit, visit www.broadbandwyo.com. For more information on summit registration, contact Troy Babbitt, Broadband Enterprise Architect at troy.babbitt@wyo.gov or 307.777.5648.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernortoBuildonBroadbandandTechnologySuccesswithThirdSummit.aspx
