Public Statements
Wyoming Moves Up in Pro-Business Ranking
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: July 15, 2014
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Wyoming is now ranked number two in the nation in an independent economic research firm's list of the Top Ten Pro-Business States for 2014. Wyoming rose from number five in Pollina Corporate Real Estate's ranking last year. This year's ranking is Wyoming's highest ever.
"In Wyoming we put a premium on having a climate that is conducive to starting and sustaining a business. The Pollina ranking shows that our work is going well and getting results. Most important, it reflects what we have seen - that the economy is expanding and diversifying," Governor Mead said. "More jobs and more businesses mean more opportunities and better salaries for the people of Wyoming. Those things are happening now."
The Pollina study was co-published with the American Economic Development Institute, a nonpartisan public policy and economics research group. Wyoming's number two ranking in the study is based on an analysis of workforce, taxes and other factors such as education.
"There is little question from a tax burden perspective, Wyoming is an excellent choice for doing business," said Brent Pollina, Vice President of Pollina Corporate Real Estate and co-author of the study. "From a corporate tax burden perspective, Wyoming is an excellent choice for doing business, far exceeding other western states like California, Washington and Oregon."
According to a media release from the firm, each year, Pollina Corporate Real Estate ranks the 50 states on how well each has or has not positioned itself to retain and create jobs as well as sustain America's middle class. Now in its 11th edition, the study has become an important tool for corporations to evaluate their current and future U.S. locations.
"This ranking is something companies across the country watch and Wyoming's high ranking will help in our business recruiting," Shawn Reese, CEO of the Wyoming Business Council, said.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/WyomingMovesUpinPro-BusinessRanking.aspx
