Public Statements
Governor Mead Creates ENDOW Initiative to Expand Wyoming Economy
Statement
By: Matt Mead
Date: Nov. 10, 2016
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Citing the need for a comprehensive approach to diversify the Wyoming economy, Governor Matt Mead announced today that he is creating the ENDOW initiative. The initiative will coordinate and expand ongoing efforts across the state, as well as produce measurable results expanding the Wyoming economy. He made the announcement during the Governor's Business Forum, hosted by the Wyoming Business Alliance.
The ENDOW acronym represents "Economically Needed Diversity Options for Wyoming."
"We need immediate and measurable results now," Mead told the forum audience. "We need to build on recent success in establishing technology as a fourth leg of Wyoming's economic strength. We need to build on the efforts to add value to coal, minerals and natural resources. We need to build on our success in a growing manufacturing industry."
Governor Mead cited several decades of economic studies and plans -- some dating to the period when his Grandfather, Cliff Hansen, was Wyoming's Governor. Many of these recommended addressing issues still pressing in 2016.
"For decades we have wanted to grow opportunities that keep our young people in Wyoming," Mead said. "We have known for more than 50 years that it is important to add value to our natural resources, to improve air service and to expand research. The problem with the past plans is that they have addressed the next four years -- or next eight years. These are connected with political terms and we need economic action that spans the next 20 years -- efforts that go beyond this Governor and the next."
Governor Mead and Greg Hill will co-chair an executive steering committee to establish a vision and action plan. Greg Hill is a senior executive with the Hess Corporation. As a graduate of the University of Wyoming's college of engineering, he has been active in multiple efforts to improve programs at UW and across the state.
The effort will include multiple state agencies, the Wyoming Business Council, the University of Wyoming and the state's community colleges.
Jerimiah Rieman of Governor Mead's staff will serve as the coordinator of the ENDOW initiative.
ENDOW will include current economic development efforts, including research into the creation of one or more industrial parks in Wyoming. The executive committee will be identified over the next several weeks.

Source: http://governor.wyo.gov/media/news-releases/2016-news-releases/governormeadcreatesendowinitiativetoexpandwyomingeconomy
