Public Statements
Governor: BLM Plan for Lander Area Shows Positive Cooperation
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: June 26, 2014
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead, the U.S. Director of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Wyoming Director of the BLM gathered this morning for the signing of the Record of Decision for the Lander Resource Management Plan (RMP). This plan guides management of more than two million acres of public land. This land is located in central Wyoming and the plan covers the next 20 years. Governor Mead along with local governments worked with the BLM on the plan.
"This is a reasoned plan that recognizes multiple-use for these public lands. The plan strikes a balance between energy production, livestock grazing, recreation and conservation. It incorporates Wyoming's plan for protecting Greater sage-grouse," Governor Mead said. "The BLM has worked closely with Wyoming for the best use of public land. The Lander RMP represents another step forward in a productive relationship between the BLM, the state and the public interest."

Wyoming's sage-grouse core area strategy protects key habitat aimed at a healthy population that does not need the protection of the Endangered Species Act. An endangered species designation would impact about 80% of the land in Wyoming. Governor Mead's 2011 Executive Order protects 80% of the population of sage-grouse in Wyoming with restrictions on only 24% of the land. The Lander RMP incorporates a state-based approach to sage-grouse protection.

"This is, in my view, the most significant step the BLM has taken on sage-grouse. It is good for Wyoming and the country to see the federal government work with states. States are in the best position to understand the dynamics of these issues and bring commitment and ingenuity to the process," Governor Mead said. "By adopting Wyoming's plan, the BLM has taken a holistic view, strengthening sage-grouse protection and making our strategy more effective."

The BLM plan also incorporates Wyoming's pipeline corridor plan, recognizes state leadership on air and water quality and adopts suggestions on designated development areas. Wyoming appreciates the cooperation and work of the Wyoming BLM under Director Don Simpson and the U.S. BLM under Director Neil Kornze.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorBLMPlanforLanderAreaShowsPositiveCooperation.aspx
