Public Statements
Governor Defends Wyoming During Wave of Federal Regulations
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: June 18, 2014
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead will continue to be aggressive in protecting Wyoming from a pile up of federal regulations. Governor Mead has taken a strong stand against federal overreach including filing more than 30 lawsuits involving the federal government. Recently, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released two proposed rules that could significantly impact energy production, power generation and agriculture.
"Having a true all of the above energy mix is important to Wyoming and to the people here, and it is important to the whole country. A sound energy policy is about maintaining affordable electricity and keeping the cost of living down in Wyoming and nationally," Governor Mead said.
A proposed rule for existing power plants published by the EPA today would mandate a reduction in CO2 emissions. Wyoming produces about 400 million tons of coal per year. It is the largest coal producer in the country, supplying 35 states with coal. Today's rule follows others, which could limit the construction of new coal-fired power plants or force the early retirement of other plants.
"These rules pile up and it seems like coal is targeted. We should try to make all energy sources better, but that should be done with more focus on innovations and new technologies. Wyoming is providing leadership through investments in coal and power generation," Governor Mead said.
Governor Mead expressed concern today over the EPA's proposed expansion of the Waters of the United States proposal. Governor Mead prefers to work cooperatively for reasonable regulations, but when reason fails he is willing to take legal action.
At today's news conference Governor Mead addressed Wyoming's economy. He noted that signs point to a good year for tourism - the state's second leading industry. Also, according to a recent report Wyoming had the second highest growth rate in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the nation in 2013.
"We were just rated second in the nation for the growth in our GDP. I am very pleased by that. Wyoming's unemployment is at 3.7% down almost four percent from 2010. More people are employed in Wyoming now than at any previous point in our history. These numbers show we are on a positive path," Governor Mead said.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorDefendsWyomingDuringWaveofFederalRegulations.aspx
