Public Statements
Thanks to Teams from Across Wyoming for Their Work Protecting Saratoga
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: June 2, 2014
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead and the Mayor of Saratoga expressed their appreciation for the hard work of volunteers, local officials, Wyoming National Guard troops, the Smokebusters and Homeland Security in protecting Saratoga and other areas in Carbon and Albany Counties. The North Platte River neared record levels during the last week, but the efforts to get ahead of the water were successful and water levels are now starting to recede.
"We are very pleased and thankful for the assistance from the Governor's office and the response from the volunteers, Wyoming National Guard, Smokebusters, and Homeland Security," Saratoga Mayor John Zeiger said. "Saratoga and Carbon County are in a better place because of their help. Our residents directly benefited from the advanced planning, teamwork and hard work."
Governor Matt Mead spoke with Mayor Zeiger on a regular basis over the last week.
"We saw near record levels in the North Platte through Saratoga. Mayor Zeiger and other local officials provided great leadership. We built up impressive sandbag barriers to protect people, homes and businesses. Men and women from across the state -- from volunteers to the National Guard -- came in to help. I thank all of them. They made a difference," Governor Mead said. "We will remain vigilant in Carbon County and in other parts of the state that are at risk for flooding."
In total these teams filled and placed more than 80,000 sandbags in Carbon County and placed sandbags in other parts of the state, including Albany, Big Horn, Fremont and Washakie Counties.
Four of the five Wyoming National Guard rapid response teams have demobilized. One team and Wyoming Office of Homeland Security personnel will remain in Saratoga to monitor conditions through at least tonight.
"The partnership among our Guard members, state agencies and volunteers is remarkable. We are pleased to be part of it," Major General Luke Reiner, Wyoming's Adjutant General said. "Although we are sending Guard personnel home, we remain vigilant and ready to respond in Saratoga or elsewhere in Wyoming."
The Wyoming National Guard and Wyoming Office of Homeland Security still have assessment teams working with local cities and counties in other parts of Wyoming.
"The initial planning efforts from the communities and Governor Mead's proactive strategy put us ahead in flood fighting efforts and ensured that we were in the right place -- at the right time," Wyoming Office of Homeland Security Director Guy Cameron said. "Placing assets and personnel in position early made an enormous difference in the outcome. We continue to monitor stream gauges during this runoff period. Teams will continue to observe water levels and respond to any flood threats."

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/ThankstoTeamsfromAcrossWyomingforTheirWorkProtectingSaratoga.aspx
