Public Statements
Industry Leaders Form Construction Safety Alliance
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: March 14, 2014
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead thanks leaders from the Wyoming construction industry for creating a Wyoming Construction Safety Alliance. The Governor notes the value of such a coalition to improve safety on the jobsite, where safety is imperative.
"Formalizing this Alliance is an important step. I thank those from industry for taking action -- it sends the message that safety is priority number one. As those in construction can share what works, better on the ground practices should result," Governor Mead said. "The state has resources in place to support workplace safety and provide grants for enhanced safety equipment and training. We are making progress on workplace safety and must remain focused to continue to see improvements."
Representatives from the Wyoming Department of Workforce Services (DWS) are supporting the Wyoming Construction Safety Alliance, including State Occupational Epidemiologist Dr. C. Mack Sewell. Dr. Sewell released a report outlining workplace fatalities and their circumstances by industry for 2012. This report can provide important data for those in the Alliance.
"The Construction Safety Alliance will provide more opportunity for Wyoming construction companies to share best practices regarding improving worker safety throughout the industry," said Joan Evans Director of the DWS. "I applaud the partnership forged today."

Several industry groups have formed over the past several years dedicated to promote safety in the workplace including the flagship coalition of the Wyoming Oil and Gas Industry Safety Alliance (WOGISA), the Wyoming Refinery Safety Alliance and the Transportation Safety Coalition. Although the DWS provides some assistance, these groups are run entirely by industry representatives. Each group has identified needs in its respective industry to improve the safety culture and well-being of workers.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/IndustryLeadersFormConstructionSafetyAlliance.aspx
