Public Statements
Governor to Participate in International Advanced Coal Technology Conference
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: March 13, 2014
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead and researchers from the University of Wyoming are traveling to Australia to participate in the 2014 International Advanced Coal Technology Conference. The focus of the conference is to address coal use and carbon capture, storage and utilization. The emphasis is on developing value-added products from coal. The conference brings together officials from the United States, China and Australia as well as private partners.
"Those involved in this research are looking at technologies to add value to coal and its use now and in the future," Governor Mead said. "We in Wyoming have much to offer to this work and much to gain from it. The advancement of coal research will benefit Wyoming, its people and the coal industry. I fully support it."
The conference is part of an ongoing international collaboration among policy makers, developers of technology and industry leaders from the United States, Australia and China. The group meets every other year to discuss research and advanced coal projects underway across the globe. This is the fourth conference.
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO), the University of Wyoming, the University of Queensland, and the Shaanxi Provincial Institute of Energy Resources and Chemical Engineering are the conference supporters this year.
The University of Wyoming's School of Energy Resources is also participating in the conference, which takes place at the CSIRO Queensland Centre for Advanced Technologies.
Governor Mead will have the opportunity to speak about Wyoming coal and also to learn more about Australia's coal industry. He will tour coal export facilities in Australia and conduct meetings with various companies.
"Australia exports millions of tons of coal each year to Asian markets. These same countries are interested in Wyoming coal. I look forward to visiting and seeing a vibrant coal port to better understand the benefits and challenges associated with this method of export," Governor Mead said.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernortoParticipateinInternationalAdvancedCoalTechnologyConference.aspx
