Public Statements
Governor Has Productive Trip to Nation's Capital
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Feb. 25, 2014
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead met with his fellow Governors, members of the President's Cabinet and the Council of Governors in Washington, DC. From February 21st to 24th the National Governors, Western Governors' and Republican Governors Associations held their winter meetings in Washington. Governor Mead also visited with the President at the White House.
"As I say often, I believe strongly in states' rights and with those rights come states' responsibilities," Governor Mead said. "The Governors from across the nation take their responsibilities seriously. We continue to innovate and provide leadership in many arenas. I shared our success in developing a Wyoming energy strategy, which is being implemented. I spoke about our work to create more opportunities by expanding infrastructure and access to broadband. Wyoming will be one of the first states to put in a unified network, increasing connectivity across our state with the next generation of technology."
Governor Mead spoke directly with the Secretary of the Interior, Sally Jewell; the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Gina McCarthy; Secretary of Energy, Ernest Moniz; Secretary of Defense, Chuck Hagel; Secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson and the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
"I met directly with the directors of federal agencies that impact Wyoming. We do not always see eye to eye but I believe having an open dialogue is necessary," Governor Mead said.
Governor Mead is one of ten members of the Council of Governors. This Council is appointed by the President and is charged with working with key federal officials on matters related to the National Guard and homeland defense. The Council met Monday.
"I, along with several other Governors, asked the President to support the current size and structure of the National Guard. The Guard has taken on a more significant role in national defense since 9/11 and it plays an important role in civil emergencies," Governor Mead said.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorHasProductiveTriptoNation%E2%80%99sCapital.aspx
