Public Statements
Governor Proposes Test Facility for Carbon Research
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Jan. 23, 2014
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead is proposing Wyoming and private partners invest in a world-class research center to develop and test new uses for carbon captured from coal-based power plants. The goal is to develop new markets for carbon in addition to enhanced oil recovery. As carbon capture technology advances across the country there will be more CO2 than can be used for that process. Wyoming coal is sent to 34 states and not all of them have enhanced oil projects available.
"Wyoming and many private companies have invested significantly in carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) research. I want to advance the conversation to look at what happens when CCS technology is commercially viable and to try to add value to CO2, which has significant potential as a resource," Governor Mead said. "I am asking the Legislature to look closely at the idea of Wyoming joining with utilities, power plants and other private companies to build a test center - essentially setting up a laboratory for a select group of scientists to experiment with uses of carbon."
Governor Mead is proposing that the State set aside $15 million to cover some capital costs for the center and for University of Wyoming research to take place there. In Wyoming there is lot of demand for CO2 to be used in enhanced oil recovery. This test center would be complimentary to work on enhanced oil recovery.
"Wyoming has an opportunity to make strides in establishing new beneficial uses of CO2," Governor Mead said. "I believe this would be best suited to occur in a location that incorporates real world conditions -- namely, the heart of coal country."
Wyoming is home to the largest coal mines in the United States and provides 40% of the nation's coal. Coal in turn provides 37% of America's electricity. There are several private companies that would be involved with this project and they would work with the University of Wyoming's School of Energy Resources.
Governor Mead recognizes that this plan is still in its early stages. As a result, he is proposing to set aside the $15 million and it would not be spent until an implementation plan has been reviewed by the Legislature and approved by the Advanced Conversion Technology Task Force and the Governor.
"There are many details that need to be worked out on this proposal, but I want Wyoming to maintain a position of leadership when it comes to carbon research," Governor Mead said. "This is a bold project, but it could position Wyoming and the country well to ensure we have a diverse energy portfolio for generations to come."
The State of Wyoming has been in talks with Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, a not-for-profit wholesale power supplier headquartered in Colorado and serving power to Wyoming electric cooperatives, about Tri-State's pursuit of an inducement prize for research on this issue. The test center could be used by Wyoming researchers and competitors seeking the prize.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorProposesTestFacilityforCarbonResearch.aspx
