Public Statements
Governor to Build on Broadband Success with Second Summit
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Oct. 1, 2013
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead is hosting the second annual Wyoming Broadband Summit on October 29th in Cheyenne. The event brings together leaders from the technology sector in Wyoming to discuss opportunities and challenges in the industry. This year Wyoming has seen incredible growth in broadband connectivity with access to Ethernet internet in the state's schools increasing by 700 percent.
"Thanks to a public-private partnership we have improved internet access significantly, but we have more to do. This Broadband Summit is a way to get our emerging technology sector together in Cheyenne and inform industry, the public, state government and others about how to build on our successes," Governor Mead said. "One project I support is constructing a unified network. This should improve internet speeds and reliability for Wyoming schools and state offices, which in turns creates more access points for private industry. I hope to receive feedback about this proposal at the summit."
The summit is co-sponsored by the Wyoming Business Council, LINK Wyoming and the State of Wyoming. This year's summit features discussions about the role broadband plays in economic and social impacts, data centers, mobile and wireless connections, and other sectors in Wyoming.
The summit will take place at Little America in Cheyenne from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and there is no charge to attend."There has been plenty of positive work that has taken place since last year's summit, but there is a lot of work ahead of us as well," said Business Council CEO Bob Jensen. "Digital industries are growing in our state, largely due to improved internet connectivity and broadband capacity. The Governor's summit serves as a great stage to learn how better broadband access translates into better business in Wyoming."
Part of the work that has taken place since the inaugural summit last year is the development of a mobile testing app available to the public to map broadband performance around the state. The LinkWYOMING Mobile Test app has been available to the public since July 2013 and more that 750 people have downloaded it thus far. The app constantly collects data regarding broadband availability and performance across Wyoming. The free app is available on the Apple App store and Google Play store.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernortoBuildonBroadbandSuccesswithSecondSummit.aspx
