Public Statements
Governor: Adventures Abound in Wyoming
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: July 12, 2013
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead will be at the starting line next Thursday to send off competitors in the first Cameco Cowboy Tough Adventure Race. Starting on July 18th at Curt Gowdy State Park, elite qualifying racers from across the continent will start out on this race. For 3½ days straight they will mountain bike, canoe across Wyoming reservoirs, rock climb, orienteer, hike along historic trails and navigate white water. While top competitors take on these multiple challenges, Casper will host an entire weekend of adventures for people of all ages and abilities.
"The Cameco Cowboy Tough Adventure Race highlights the types of activities that the people of Wyoming can do on a regular basis. The weekend's events allow us to showcase these great outdoor resources to the nation," Governor Mead said. "I encourage people to head to Casper and take advantage of a weekend full of activities with their families and friends."
In addition to the Cameco Cowboy Tough Adventure Race, in Casper next weekend Rev3 Adventure and many great corporate partners are putting on two smaller adventure races and a 5K glow stick run/walk.
On Saturday, the VisitCasper.com Urban Adventure Challenge takes place. Teams will move from checkpoint to checkpoint as quickly as possible. Each checkpoint presents a different challenge -- including obstacles, a plunge into the North Platte River and even eating a burger.
"This is an Amazing Race meets Tough Mudder event. It will be challenging and fun for teams. The checkpoints are either destinations that your average visitor to Casper might explore for an afternoon or an obstacle the racers have to overcome. I hope we get lots of people coming out to try their hand at adventure racing," Aaron McCreight, CEO of the Casper Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, said.
On Sunday, the Jackson Hole Mountain Resort Family Adventure Race is an opportunity for families to get active together. Teams will have less than two hours to go through checkpoints. Rev3 Adventure's Mike Spiller said this race will end as the elite teams are finishing the Adventure Race in Casper. "We know Wyoming and Casper are adventure capitols and we wanted to offer families an activity to do together and bring out extra crowds on Sunday to finish up this great weekend," Spiller said.
For those looking for another activity on Friday there is the Rev3 Glow Run put on by the Wyoming Medical Center. This new trend in races offers a 5K or 1 mile option and participants will get a glow stick to light up the course. After the race there will also be a family movie shown on a jumbo-tron sponsored by Anadarko.
All weekend long the public is welcome at the Health and Fitness Expo hosted by the YMCA and Jonah Bank. This expo includes exhibits and activities for people of all ages and interests.
"Every weekend offers many options for outdoor activities in Wyoming," Governor Mead said. "The events in Casper are a chance to get out and compete or learn something new. I appreciate all the sponsors and volunteers who are working to make this Adventure Weekend a success."

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorAdventuresAboundinWyoming.aspx
