Public Statements
Wyoming Sends Strike Team to New Mexico to Fight Wildfires
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: June 5, 2013
Location: Cheyenne, WY

A strike team of firefighters from Wyoming has been sent to New Mexico to help with fires. Two large fires in New Mexico have displaced families from their homes. Like Wyoming, New Mexico, experienced an historic fire season in 2012.
The strike team consists of crews and firefighting equipment from Albany, Natrona and Washakie Counties along with a strike team leader from the Wyoming State Forestry Division. The Wyoming team is based in the Rio Rancho area of New Mexico on a patrol assignment. The team is prepared to move quickly to active fires in the northern part of New Mexico and will be there for approximately two weeks.
"All of us in the West know about fires and their impacts on people - from families to businesses. My thoughts are with the people of New Mexico," Wyoming Governor Matt Mead said. "Fighting wildfires takes resources from across the country. We are glad we are in a position to lend a hand to New Mexico."
New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez personally thanked the strike team from Wyoming and teams from other states today. "Governor Mead of Wyoming and I have a great working relationship, and I appreciate his willingness to help New Mexico with these valuable resources. I'm also appreciative to Governor Kitzhaber of Oregon and Jack Dalrymple of North Dakota," Governor Martinez said.
"The wildland fire community works together to achieve success. Being able to dispatch this strike team of engines to New Mexico from two volunteer departments and two full-time departments, under the leadership of one of our folks from State Forestry, shows how well the system works," said Wyoming State Forester Bill Crapser.
Wyoming residents should plan ahead and prepare their homes and property against the threat of wildfire again this year. The 2013 Wyoming fire season is forecasted to be normal, typically the fire season in Wyoming is most severe in July and August.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/WyomingSendsStrikeTeamtoNewMexicotoFightWildfires.aspx
