Public Statements
Governor Announces Statewide Anti-Impaired Driving Campaign
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: May 20, 2013
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead announced today that the Governor's Council on Impaired Driving is launching a statewide campaign to reduce drunk driving related fatalities and injuries in Wyoming. The Council was created by Executive Order on September 16, 2011 to work on ways to make Wyoming's highways safer through educational programs, proposed legislative changes and partnering with law enforcement for increased focused patrols. The purpose of the new multimedia campaign is to save lives by encouraging people to make the decision not to drive when they are legally impaired by alcohol.
"The new multimedia campaign is hard hitting and specific to Wyoming," said Governor Mead. "It will address the devastating emotional losses caused by drunk driving. The takeaway message will be clear: Don't drive drunk." The campaign stresses the individual, life-changing consequences of getting a DUI.
"Many of the accidents on our highways could have been prevented if people did not drink and drive. This media campaign is necessary to remind us of what too many Wyoming families know firsthand - there is a tremendous toll when you drive while impaired," Governor Mead said. "I thank the members of the Impaired Driving Council for their work putting this together and for helping to save lives."
The Governor's Council on Impaired Driving will measure its success against benchmarks on an annual basis and make any necessary changes to the media approach. "Although Wyoming has made progress since the Governor's Council was formed, the Cowboy State's DUI fatalities are still significantly higher than the national average, when adjusted for population," said Rich Adriaens, Sheridan Police Chief and Co-Chair of the Governor's Council. "In 2012, Wyoming had 954 alcohol-related crashes -- 391 of those resulted in injuries and 41people died."
The Governor's Council on Impaired Driving is led by Co-Chairs Rich Adriaens and Mike Blonigen, Natrona County District Attorney. Nearly two dozen concerned citizens from law enforcement, the Judiciary, Tribal representatives and others concerned about the problem participate in this Council.
For more information, and copies of Wyoming's new media campaign, visit http://www.wygcid.org.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorAnnouncesStatewideAnti-ImpairedDrivingCampaign.aspx
