Public Statements
Governor Recognizes Wyoming Medical Center for Moving to More Efficient Health Records
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: April 25, 2013
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead congratulates the Wyoming Medical Center (WMC) of Casper as the first Wyoming hospital to take advantage of a growing partnership that improves patient care. The WMC is joining the program "MyWy Health," which allows qualified physicians outside of the hospital to securely access information about their patients' care.
"Using technology to improve patient care across Wyoming is important. I am pleased to see the Wyoming Medical Center lead the way. Other hospitals are close behind. The secure exchange of electronic health information between qualified health care professionals benefits patients, reduces costs and protects patient information," Governor Mead said. "This is an example of how broadband technologies help make the quality of life in Wyoming even better."
The Wyoming e-Health Partnership is a public/private partnership, which developed "MyWy Health." It is a secure system for the exchange of electronic health information for Wyoming's medical professionals. The Partnership is helping health care providers securely access more complete patient history as they provide treatment.
"When patients travel to Casper from other communities or even when they see two different doctors in the same town, the participating physicians will have an up-to-date medical history of their patients," said Vicki Diamond, CEO of Wyoming Medical Center. "Our patients can be assured that their critical medical information can be quickly located and reviewed without long waits, filling out more paperwork or duplicate tests."
In partnership with the State of Wyoming and several key health care organizations, the Wyoming e-Health Partnership has launched "MyWy Health" to expand awareness of the benefits of having patient medical information available to treating providers in a safe and security-compliant exchange.
Lisa K. Brandes, MD, president of Wyoming e-Health Partnership, said, "The health information exchange is an incredibly important tool supporting Wyoming health care professionals and patients. Like Wyoming Medical Center, other Wyoming hospitals and physician offices who join this partnership can provide better coordination of patient care."
Diamond added, "We are pleased to be the first Wyoming hospital to join up. We look forward to the time when all Wyoming hospitals and providers have access to see their patients' data regardless of where the patient was cared for in the state."

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorRecognizesWyomingMedicalCenterforMovingtoMore.aspx
