Public Statements
Gov & Rev3 - Ready For Cowboy Tough Adventure This Summer
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: April 16, 2013
Location: Cheyenne, WY

The first ever Cowboy Tough Adventure Race will wind its way over several hundred miles highlighting adventure opportunities in Wyoming and challenging competitors from across the North America. The race will take place over the weekend of July 18-21. Governor Matt Mead and the race organizer, Rev3 Adventure, today thanked the corporate sponsors that have come on board to help make this a first-class event. Rev3 Adventure and the corporate partners will also run other adventure events around Casper, Wyoming over that weekend, which means people of all ages and abilities will have options for participating.
"I am pleased that this race is coming together so well. Rev3 is doing a great job and now we have an excellent group of corporate partners who also want to promote Wyoming and the many adventures we have to offer here," Governor Mead said. "These companies reflect Wyoming and I look forward to seeing them in July as the adventures start."
The title sponsor for the Adventure Weekend is Cameco Resources, which is headquartered in Cheyenne and is America's largest uranium mining company. "We are excited to be associated with something that celebrates Wyoming and makes use of the amazing resources of our state while respecting the environment," said Paul Goranson, president of Cameco Resources. "And besides all that, it's going to be a lot of fun at the big weekend in Casper."
Casper's Wyoming Medical Center is the sponsor of Friday night's 5K Glow Run and Walk in Casper. Mary Lynne Shickich, Vice President, External Affairs, Community Development and Foundation for the Wyoming Medical Center said, "The adventure weekend isn't something we have seen much of in Wyoming and we're excited to be part of it. What a great opportunity to get outdoors and experience some healthy, family-friendly fun. Our new mission is to advance the health and wellness of the community and this race promotes our goals for central Wyoming."
Jackson Hole Mountain Resort (JHMR) is sponsoring the Family Adventure Race, which will take place on Sunday in Casper. "Jackson Hole Mountain Resort is eager to see adventure racing come to Wyoming. We have hosted many outdoor events that bring top level athletes from around the world to Teton County, WY and we know the benefits to our tourism economy. We have committed to a top sponsorship level as we believe this will showcase not only the incredible outdoor experiences and strong character, S.E. Wyoming has to offer, but also how businesses in Wyoming collaborate to leverage all our attributes," Jerry Blann, President of JHMR said.
"Anadarko is proud to partner with Governor Mead to bring this innovative event to the great State of Wyoming. Supporting the communities where we live and work is part of what we do," said Dennis Ellis, Government Relations Advisor for Anadarko Petroleum. As one of the largest energy producers, taxpayers and landowners in Wyoming, Anadarko employs over 700 people, while generating an average $340 million per year in state and local taxes and royalties to help pay for government services like Wyoming education, fire protection and law enforcement. Anadarko is sponsoring the Family Movie Night, which follows the Glow Run and Walk 5K on Friday.
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wyoming will be the premier volunteer sponsor. Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wyoming President and CEO, Rick Schum said, "Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wyoming is very pleased to join Governor Mead in bringing this exciting new adventure race to Wyoming. There is no better place than Wyoming to participate in outdoor activities, and we're particularly pleased that this race provides such outstanding opportunities to share the outdoor adventure with Wyoming's children and their families."
Wells Fargo has joined the team of sponsors as the results sponsor. The local Taco John's restaurant, the City of Casper and Jonah Bank are also sponsors of the Adventure Weekend.
Rev3 Adventure's Race Director, Michael Spiller, expressed his appreciation for the sponsorship. "It would not be possible to bring an event of this magnitude to the state without the support of these businesses," Spiller said.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorandRev3ThankCorporatePartnersLookForwardtoCowboyToughAdventureWeekendThisSummer.aspx
