Public Statements
Governor Will Help Mark 3rd Annual Veterans Welcome Home Day
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: March 20, 2013
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead and the Wyoming Veterans Commission are pleased to announce celebrations for the "Wyoming Veterans Welcome Home Day" on Monday, April 1. The day of welcoming was codified in state law in 2011 during the 61st legislative session.
All Wyoming veterans, especially those from the Korean War, Vietnam War, and other veterans who were not properly thanked upon their return home are invited to attend and receive the welcome and thanks of a grateful state.
"Honoring those who have served is critical. It shows our pride in America and shows those who are serving now or will serve that we are indebted to them for their sacrifice," Governor Mead said. "For those who served and did not come home to a handshake and a supportive nation it is long past due that we pause, honor you and welcome you home."
Ceremonies will commence in Sheridan at 8:30 am at the Sheridan VA Medical Center Auditorium, 1898 Fort Road hosted by the Sheridan VA Medical Center.
Ceremonies in Riverton will commence at 11:00 am at the REACH Foundation Club House, 622 N. 8th Street hosted by the Veterans of Fremont County.
Ceremonies in Afton will commence at 1:40 pm at the Afton/Lincoln County Community Center, 150 S. Washington hosted by VFW Post # 4797.
The final ceremony of the day will commence in Rock Springs at 4:00 pm in the atrium of the Whisenand Student Center, Western Wyoming Community College, 2500 College Drive hosted by Western Wyoming Community College, American Legion Post # 24, and the Sweetwater County Veterans Services Office.
The ceremonies will feature remarks by Governor Matt Mead, Major General Luke Reiner, the Adjutant General of Wyoming, and Veterans Commission Chairman Pete Quinnell of Gillette and Vice Chair Lee Alley, a Distinguished Service Cross recipient of the Vietnam War. Local officials and veterans from the community will also be speaking. Receiving lines will be formed so Wyoming residents can join the effort to thank our veterans.
"Wyoming veterans who served and sacrificed will be thanked for their efforts and welcomed home. It is never too late to say "thank you,'" said Pete Quinnell, Chairman of the Wyoming Veterans Commission.
All Wyoming communities are encouraged to host celebrations to honor Wyoming veterans who may not have been thanked for their service or properly welcomed home.
For more information, contact the Wyoming Veterans Commission at (307) 777-8151.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorWillHelpMark3rdAnnualVeteransWelcomeHomeDay.aspx
