Public Statements
Governor Appoints Kara Brighton to Public Service Commission
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Feb. 7, 2013
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead has appointed Kara Brighton to the Wyoming Public Service Commission (PSC). She will replace Deputy Chairman Commissioner Steve Oxley who is retiring. The PSC regulates public utilities that provide services to consumers in Wyoming and ensures public utilities in Wyoming provide safe and reliable service at reasonable rates. Brighton's appointment is subject to confirmation by the Wyoming Senate.
"I am pleased Kara is willing to join the Public Service Commission, which works diligently on behalf of Wyoming utility customers," Governor Mead said. "Kara did a great service for the people of Wyoming in working on the North Platte River Settlement Agreement and I appreciate her continuing commitment to the state."
Brighton is partner at the law firm of Hageman & Brighton. She previously worked for the Wyoming Attorney General and has an undergraduate degree from the University of Wyoming. Brighton serves on the Board of Advisors for the University of Wyoming College of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
"I am honored Governor Mead would consider me to serve such an important role for the people of Wyoming," Brighton said. "I look forward to working with Commissioners Minier and Russell and delving into the various facets of utility regulation and safety."
"I thank Commissioner Oxley for his years of work on the PSC and his leadership in national and western electrical transmission organizations. He has helped tackle some challenging questions facing Wyoming and the nation," Governor Mead said.
Commissioner Oxley said, "Most of my 30 years of service to the State of Wyoming have been with the Public Service Commission, the last six as Deputy Chairman. The Commission has given me the opportunity to work on important issues for Wyoming and the West, and it has allowed me to make some of the best friends I ever had. There was never a day in all this time that I did not look forward to coming to work."

Source:
