Public Statements
Governor Welcomes New Eastern Shoshone Tribal Liaison
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Jan. 28, 2013
Location: Cheyenne, WY

The Eastern Shoshone Business Council has appointed Sara Robinson as its new Tribal Liaison. Robinson replaces Edward Wadda who was killed in a car accident in 2012.
Governor Matt Mead said he looks forward to working with Robinson. "The Tribal Liaisons in Wyoming play an important role in maintaining and enhancing the relationship between state and tribal governments and our communities. We all continue to miss Eddie and know Sara will build on his successes," Governor Mead said.
Robinson served on the University of Wyoming Board of Trustees and the Eastern Shoshone Business Council. She has been an educator on the Wind River Reservation and has been a public defender. Robinson has her bachelor's in education and a law degree from the University of Wyoming.
"I am very honored to be selected to serve. My focus will be on representing my people, the Eastern Shoshone, and through this service I believe we can move several issues forward to benefit the Wind River Reservation, Fremont County and the State of Wyoming," Sara Robinson said.
Darwin St. Clair Jr., Chairman of the Eastern Shoshone Business Council, said, "We were fortunate to have a number of well qualified applicants apply for the position. The Eastern Shoshone Business Council is excited to have Ms. Sara Robinson representing the Eastern Shoshone Tribe. She brings a wealth of knowledge and years of experience that will assist us with our government to government relationship we enjoy with the State of Wyoming. She will be a great asset as we continue to improve our efforts in maintaining a positive relationship with the State."
Robinson's appointment was effective January 14, 2013. She joins Gary Collins who is the Tribal Liaison for the Northern Arapaho Tribe.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorWelcomesNewEasternShoshoneTribalLiaison.aspx
