Public Statements
Governor Announces Microsoft Will Build Large Data Center in Wyoming
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: April 9, 2012
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead announced that Microsoft will build a data center near Cheyenne, Wyoming. The $112 million data center will bring high-paying, technology jobs to the state.
"I believe Wyoming is positioned to be a leader in the technology sector and data centers will be a catalyst for growth," Governor Mead said. He first announced his goal of recruiting data centers when he started campaigning for governor. "Wyoming is a perfect fit for data centers. We have abundant, affordable energy. Our naturally cool climate decreases costs for data centers and we have redundant fiber optics. Microsoft's decision recognizes that Wyoming is a hand and glove fit as a leading site for data centers and technology-related companies. I congratulate Microsoft. Welcome to Wyoming."
"Microsoft is excited to once again expand its cloud infrastructure and services capacities for our customers in Wyoming and the region," said Christian Belady, general manager of Data Center Services in Microsoft's Global Foundation Services' group. "We greatly appreciate the work that the Governor, the economic development team, and local officials in Cheyenne and Laramie County have done to make Wyoming a smart place for Microsoft to do business. This new data center will enable the best possible delivery of services to our current and future customers. My team and I look forward to engaging in the deployment of our latest data center solution in Cheyenne."

This data center will serve the Mountain West region for Microsoft. The company will build the data center in phases and will eventually employ approximately 40 people. The first phase will result in the creation of 17 new jobs with median wages that are 150% above the county's average wage and Microsoft expects to have the facility operational in the spring of 2013.
Governor Mead thanked staff from Cheyenne LEADS and the Wyoming Business Council who worked with Microsoft and its location scouts. "This is a competitive process and Wyoming must continue to ensure it is positioned to attract more data centers and technology companies. Our people, including those at the Business Council and LEADS, are an asset in Wyoming's efforts," Governor Mead said.
"We are very pleased to welcome Microsoft to our community. We believe they will be great community partners and will find Cheyenne a wonderful place in which to thrive and expand," Randy Bruns the CEO of the Cheyenne LEADS said. "I believe that this announcement, once again, illustrates how important it is to have property available and ready for economic development."

"We thank Microsoft for its decision to locate this important facility in Wyoming. We are confident they will see the benefits of this decision for years to come," said Bob Jensen, CEO of the Wyoming Business Council. "We appreciate the support of the communities and their local economic development officials from across the state that helped during this process, including the great work of Cheyenne LEADS, the Legislature and the Governor. This is a shining example of how economic development teamwork benefits our state."

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorAnn.aspx
