Public Statements
Governor to Mark "Wyoming Veterans Welcome Home Day" 2012
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: March 19, 2012
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead will sign a proclamation declaring March 30, 2012 the second annual Wyoming Veterans Welcome Home Day. This proclamation encourages people to thank all Wyoming veterans, especially those Korean War and Vietnam War veterans who were not properly thanked upon their return home.
"Last year was the inaugural "Wyoming Veterans Welcome Home Day,' and it was a moving experience to get out across the state to thank veterans in person. I was joined by so many others, all of us wanting to express our gratitude for what these veterans gave. The people of Wyoming realize that every veteran must have a proper welcome home, and this annual day gives us an opportunity to provide one," Governor Mead said. The Wyoming Veterans Welcome Home Day was codified in state law in 2011.
The Wyoming Veterans Commission announced that there will be several celebrations for "Wyoming Veterans Welcome Home Day" on Friday, March 30.
The ceremony in Wheatland will begin at 8 a.m., at the Wheatland 4H building, 59 Antelope Gap Road, hosted by American Legion Post # 10.
The ceremony in Gillette will begin at 10 a.m., at American Legion Post # 42, 200 Rockpile Ave.
The ceremony in Worland will begin at 1 p.m., at American Legion Post # 44, 129 S. 7th St.
The ceremony in Laramie will begin at 3 p.m., at the University of Wyoming Vietnam War Memorial located on the UW campus grounds east of the corner of 9th and Ivinson streets and southwest of the Old Main Administration building.
The final ceremony of the day will begin in Cheyenne at 5 p.m., at American Legion Post # 6, 2001 E. Lincolnway.
Each ceremony will feature remarks by Governor Matt Mead; General Luke Reiner, the Adjutant General of Wyoming; Veterans Commission Vice Chair Lee Alley, a Distinguished Service Cross recipient of the Vietnam War; and other veterans and local officials. Receiving lines will be formed so Wyoming residents can join in thanking our veterans.
The ceremony at the University of Wyoming will feature the rededication of the University of Wyoming Vietnam War Memorial and will be led by University President Tom Buchanan.
"Wyoming Veterans who served and sacrificed will be thanked for their efforts and welcomed home. It is never too late to say thank you," said Herm Emmett, Chairman of the Wyoming Veterans Commission.
Wyoming communities are encouraged to host their own celebrations to honor Wyoming Veterans who may not have been thanked for their service or welcomed home.
For more information, contact the Wyoming Veterans Commission at 307- 777-8151.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernortoMarkWyomingVet.aspx
