Public Statements
Governor in Leadership Role at National Governors Association
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Feb. 24, 2012
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead is traveling to Washington, DC on Saturday to participate in the National Governors Association Winter Meeting. Governor Mead will be co-chairing the Special Committee on Homeland Security and Public Safety session. He will also continue his service on the Council of Governors. That Council is a group of ten governors chosen by the President to advise the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the White House Homeland Security Council on matters related to the National Guard and civil support missions.
"The National Guard will be the dominant topic of these conversations as we look at the Guard's changing role in our states and national defense," Governor Mead said. "It is an honor to work for the men and women who serve in our military and our National Guard. We continue to see the Guard's commitment to our state and country, from their service in Afghanistan to keeping Wyoming communities safe during last year's record snowmelt."
The session of the Special Committee on Homeland Security and Public Safety will be broadcast live on CSPAN at 12:30 p.m. MST, Sunday, February 26th.
The National Governors Association meetings provide an opportunity for Governor Mead to discuss important topics with other governors and with members of the President's Cabinet. Last year Governor Mead met with the Secretary of the Interior about more coal leases. Subsequent to that discussion 5 lease sales were held in 2011. Those sales give Wyoming about $100 million in revenue per year for 5 years.
"The National Governors Association is a great chance to hear from other states and to share Wyoming's views," Governor Mead said.
Governor Mead also serves on the NGA's Natural Resources Committee, which covers agriculture, energy, the environment, and natural resources issues.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorinLeadershipRoleatNationalGovernorsAssociation.aspx
