Public Statements
Governor Mead Says Wyoming is in a Position of Strength
Statement
By: Matt Mead
Date: Feb. 13, 2012
Location: Cheyenne, WY

In his State of the State address Governor Matt Mead said Wyoming is in a strong position. He said the State should remain fiscally conservative while making important investments. In the address, which Governor Mead made before a Joint Session of the Wyoming Senate and House of Representatives, he expressed optimism about the State's future.

"We have small businesses that are thriving, teachers that are innovating, community colleges and a university that continue to advance. We have a citizenry that while small in numbers is big in spirit and accomplishment. Hard-working citizens in every sector make our state strong," Governor Mead said.
Governor Mead did sound a note of caution and said continued fiscal restraint is necessary. He noted that natural gas prices have declined, decreasing the revenue for Wyoming. "National and global uncertainties and energy price fluctuations require us to redouble our efforts to keep the economic recovery going and growing in Wyoming. Jobs and the economy must remain top priorities," Governor Mead said. He added that he has proposed a budget that slows the growth in government and does not include deep across-the-board cuts.
Much of Governor Mead's address focused on the budget for the next two years. He said it is necessary to continue to invest in Wyoming. He is proposing $100 million for highways and $168 million for cities, towns and counties. "Our communities are a source of great pride, and we want them to have what they need to compete and to prosper.
After all, it's on Main Street where businesses grow and jobs are created, not in the Capitol building," Governor Mead said.
Governor Mead mentioned technology and data centers as opportunities for economic growth. He supports another $15 million for infrastructure to support large data centers or tech companies. He also said Wyoming must continue to look for public-private partnerships to increase access to high speed broadband for citizens everywhere. Governor Mead supports consolidating information technology (IT) services in one agency in state government and said that Senate File 33 will move such consolidation forward.

Source:
