Public Statements
Governor Asks EPA to Respond to Wyoming's Questions on Pavillion Test Wells
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Jan. 17, 2012
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead sent a letter to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency saying that the State of Wyoming still has not received a response to questions raised by scientists and engineers working for the State. Governor Mead said a response would provide clarifications to draft report findings from two test wells drilled near Pavillion, Wyoming.
Governor Mead wrote that the majority of the State's questions remain outstanding. "I ask you to work with me to ensure that the EPA responds to the remaining questions and requests for information as quickly as possible. The response is necessary to conduct a complete analysis and interpretation of the data and findings contained in the report. Those responses will clarify information for both the public and the peer panel as they review and comment on the report."

Governor Mead pointed out that the public comment period on the draft report ends in less than two weeks and without a full response from the EPA and time to assimilate that response it will be difficult to comment. "Therefore, I request that EPA, in addition to posting its responses to the questions on its Pavillion webpage now, also extend the public comment period for an additional 30 days from the date requested information is publicly provided. This extension will provide the public and the peer panel opportunity to review additional information provided by EPA's response and to consider it in their comments," Governor Mead wrote.

"Both Wyoming and the EPA should have a common goal of an unbiased, scientifically supportable finding open to the public. I believe providing answers and information, making these available to the public and the peer review panel, and extending the comment period accordingly are the best ways to accomplish this," Governor Mead wrote to Administrator Jackson.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorAsksEPAtoRespondtoWyoming%27sQuestionsonPavillionTestWells.aspx
