Public Statements
Governor Mead Proposes Reduction in Ongoing Spending While Making Important Investments
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Dec. 1, 2011
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead announced his first biennial budget today. That budget, for the 2013-14 biennium, strikes an important balance between fiscal restraint and capitalizing on opportunities to invest in services with significant impacts for local communities, highways and education.
"Wyoming is financially strong and we have an opportunity to invest in our future while recognizing we must always be good stewards of public dollars," Governor Mead said. To this end, he proposes a reduction in ongoing spending of over $17 million. "The standard budget in Wyoming has more than doubled over the last ten years. While the State has accomplished a great deal during that decade, we see flat revenue projections ahead and we must recognize that the previous rate of growth is not sustainable."
Governor Mead's proposal reserves $87 million dollars unappropriated from the state's general fund available for legislative consideration and over $400 million that can go to savings. "This leaves significant funding to the discretion of the Legislature for that body to bring its thoughts and expertise to bear on the priorities of the State. Recognizing the value of services the State provides also requires an acknowledgement that budget reductions should be done with careful consideration of the consequences. Therefore, I prefer to leave dollars on the table rather than have agencies, in a very short time period, being asked to make 5 to 8 percent across the board cuts," Governor Mead said.
Governor Mead notes it is important to be cautious. "With projections showing that state revenue will flatten out over the coming years, with anticipated federal cuts, and with growing instability in other parts of the world, it is necessary to exercise restraint with ongoing spending. I believe my budget reflects our strong financial position now, while taking a measured approach going forward," Governor Mead said.







Source:
