Public Statements
Governor Mead Names Partner for Health Information Exchange
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Nov. 23, 2011
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead asked the Wyoming e-Health Partnership, Inc. to take the lead in the Health Information Exchange (HIE) initiative for Wyoming. The Health Information Exchange facilitates sharing of health information among doctors' offices, labs and hospitals within a community and across the state.

"This technology will serve Wyoming patients and their families as they access healthcare," Governor Mead said. "Connecting providers and patients will help patients receive better care. I am pleased to see this initiative get underway."

The HIE will eventually allow patients and providers to access health information from other locations in-state and out-of-state, including emergency care. Patient privacy and the security of health information are tightly controlled to prevent any unauthorized use. Patients will determine who has access to their health information and who does not.

"Bringing a secure Health Information Exchange to Wyoming is a collaborative effort between public and private entities and we are pleased to take the next steps toward connecting the state," Governor Mead said. "This will give doctors access to a patient's medication list helping to prevent medication errors and can give access to patient history so that a doctor knows if a certain test has been done. All of this makes people safer and can reduce costs."

The Wyoming e-Health Partnership is a public/private non-profit partnership formed to improve healthcare delivery through the secure exchange of health information between providers and patients.

Partnership President Lisa Brandes, MD commented, "Our patients deserve to have the best quality healthcare and a secure Health Information Exchange promotes quality. It ties the pieces of the healthcare system together for better treatment and improved patient outcomes."

The Partnership works closely with the State of Wyoming and includes representatives from the Wyoming Medical Society, Cheyenne Regional Medical Center, Wyoming Medical Center, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wyoming, South Lincoln Medical Center in Kemmerer, and the Wyoming Hospital Association. For more information, contact Heather Roe Day at hroeday@ehealthwyo.org.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorMeadNamesPartnerfo.aspx
