Public Statements
Governor Mead Urges Wyoming Internet Users to Stay Safe
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Oct. 5, 2011
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead continues to push for better access to the internet in Wyoming, noting it is needed for businesses, education and health care. But, while access is important, Governor Mead also views cyber security as vital to protect the privacy of state residents.
"I am proud to sign a proclamation making October Cyber Security Awareness Month," Governor Mead said. "Internet access is integral in our lives now and it is a great equalizer, opening up Wyoming communities to almost any business, creating opportunities for our students they would not otherwise have, and providing options for our citizens seeking health care treatment in remote locations. Still, we have to protect ourselves when we are online."
Governor Mead points out that internet users and our information infrastructure face increasing threats. These include malicious attacks by viruses and the loss of privacy from spyware and adware. Each year there are significant financial and personal privacy losses due to identify theft and fraud. Each person who uses the internet can play an important role in securing cyberspace by increasing his or her awareness about computer security. Awareness of computer security essentials will improve the security of Wyoming's information infrastructure and economy.

The Governor's proclamation came in conjunction with similar declarations from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Multi-State Information Sharing and Analysis Center (MS-ISAC) and the National Cyber Security Alliance (NCSA).

The MS-ISAC was established in January 2003 to provide a collaborative mechanism to help states and local governments enhance cyber security. Wyoming's Department of Homeland Security and the Office of the Chief Information Officer provide a comprehensive approach to help enhance the security of this State. In addition, there are national organizations, such as NCSA, government agencies, private sector companies, and non-profit entities helping consumers, businesses, educational leaders, and youth protect themselves online.
To learn more about Cyber Security Awareness in Wyoming, please visit http://www.wyoming.gov/cybersecurity.aspx.
(In the photo above, Governor Mead signs a proclamation making October Cyber Security Awareness Month alongside Chief Information Officer Flint Waters (left) and Enterprise Security Coordinator Mike Crouch (right)).

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorMeadurgesWyomingInternetUserstoStaySafe.aspx
