Public Statements
Governor Mead Announces Collaboration to Address Alcohol Use
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Sept. 27, 2011
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead has announced the formation of a unique collaboration between the State of Wyoming, City of Cheyenne and F.E. Warren Air Force Base. The goal is to prevent underage drinking and to encourage responsible drinking practices by people 21 and over. The collaboration will focus attention on various techniques including best practices in prevention, education, media involvement and enforcement to meet this goal.
"Specifically this collaborative effort means the State and the City of Cheyenne can support and expand a model that was originally developed at F.E. Warren Air Force Base," Governor Mead said. "We all share the common goal of creating an environment where making safe and responsible decisions around the use of alcohol is supported at every level. The success of this endeavor will hinge on creative solutions arising from the combined efforts of multiple agencies and different levels of government, from the military to city councils."
"We all play a role in educating our young service members about the dangers and potential consequences of underage drinking. F. E. Warren strives to foster a culture of responsible choices for our Airmen and dependents and this collaboration will bring us closer to our unified goal of reducing underage drinking throughout our community," Colonel Christopher Coffelt said. Col. Coffelt is the Commander of the 90th Missile Wing at F.E. Warren Air Force Base.

"Alcohol was involved in 79% of the 19,000 arrests Wyoming law officers made in 2010, and it is the leading cause of vehicle crashes and deaths of our youth." Chief Brian Kozak of the Cheyenne Police Department said. "My hope is that through this collaboration, strict enforcement of underage drinking laws and aggressive DUI task force operations, we can prevent crime."
The Department of Justice's Office of Justice Programs (OJP) provided funding for the project. The Wyoming collaboration is an outgrowth of a larger effort developed between the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), the U.S. Air Force (USAF), the Department of Defense and the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP). It follows a review of dramatic results obtained from the "0-0-1-3" program developed at F.E. Warren AFB.
The program "0-0-1-3" is based on research by the National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and the National Academy of Sciences. This research underlined the importance of setting an unambiguous standard. "0-0-1-3" stands for:
路 0 - Zero drinks if you're under 21.
路 0 - Zero DUI's.
路 1 - One drink per hour.
路 3 - Three drinks max!
"Expanding this program will produce data and ideas for communities across Wyoming to keep citizens safe, especially young adults," Governor Mead said.
Colonel Coffelt added, "We at F.E. Warren look forward to addressing this issue in collaboration with our local government and community."

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovernorMeadannouncescollaborationtoaddressalcoholuse.aspx
