Public Statements
Governor Mead Gets the Ball Rolling in his First 100 Days
Press Conference
By: Matt Mead
Date: April 12, 2011
Location: Cheyenne, WY

At a news conference discussing his first few months in Office, Governor Mead said his administration had a productive start and moved forward on several of his priorities.

Governor Mead highlighted some of his efforts such as improving the efficiency of state government through Agency consolidation and Director commitment letters, securing additional funding for cities and counties, and standing up to the federal government by joining the Health Care Lawsuit and challenging the EPA.

"Generally the first 100 days have been very productive, certainly they have been very busy," Governor Mead said. "I remain challenged on trying to do as much as possible considering that it is hard to be everywhere at once, but we are trying to get around the state as much as possible."

The Governor added that he feels his biggest accomplishments up to now are that positive laws came out of the legislative session, that he has hired a good staff and that the Office has engaged with the public. "Our office is very open. I have met with as many people as possible. However you view the political spectrum, from right to left to middle, if groups want to meet with me I have tried my best to meet with them-not just to say I have done it, but it really is a good way to get a perspective . So, I would say that has been a very good accomplishment, making ourselves available to  Wyoming's citizens."

Among the accomplishments that the Governor emphasized were Executive Orders. Governor Mead reviewed past executive orders to see if any of them can be eliminated or modified. "We wanted to clean those up because in order for executive orders to be meaningful it's necessary that they be current and accurate. So, by executive order I am going to get rid of a lot of those executive orders and we're going to clean some of those up."

Governor Mead also spoke about the federal budget proposal and the language delisting wolves in Idaho and Montana which while omitting Wyoming maintained the Judge Johnson's decision, which is favorable to Wyoming. Governor Mead said if the delisting language passes it could be a path for Wyoming to follow in the future. "I am viewing it now as a model for something that could be done in Wyoming. I wish Wyoming could have been in there in the first place, but we are not. But, if we get something that is acceptable to Wyoming and the Fish and Wildlife Service hopefully they will say, "listen we did this for Idaho and Montana, Wyoming has a plan that is good let's do it for Wyoming as well.'"

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/GovFirst100Days04122011.aspx
