Public Statements
Governor in Opposition of Wild Lands Order
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Jan. 27, 2011
Location: Cheyenne, WY

The Wyoming County Commissioners Association has passed a resolution saying that the, "Association strongly opposes Secretarial Order 3310 on the basis that it is ultra vires and contrary to the clear delineation of authority between the Congress and the Department of the Interior and that it has been adopted without respect for mandatory procedures."
Secretarial Order 3310 directs the Bureau of Land Management to inventory and identify "Wild Lands" and protect them for their wilderness values.
Governor Matt Mead has already sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar asking him to rescind the "Wild Lands" Order. Governor Mead is deeply concerned about the implications of this order and their impact on the public. He wrote, "Only the elected Congress is given the power, by law, to designate official Wilderness areas. But, the policy seeks such designations by administrative fiat. With all due respect, the BLM cannot achieve these ends through this means."
Since Governor Mead wrote that letter the Wyoming County Commissioners Association passed its resolution and the National Association of Counties has added its support sending a letter to Secretary Salazar as well. That letter says, "NACo strongly opposes the actions by the Interior Department and maintains our members position opposing Federal land management agency actions that limit access and multiple use of lands that otherwise would be available to the public (i.e. Wilderness Study Areas, "Wild Lands", or any other defacto wilderness designation)."
"I am glad to stand shoulder to shoulder with the counties opposing the federal government on this Order," Governor Mead says. "Secretarial Order 3310 has serious implications at every level."
The Vice President of the Wyoming County Commissioners Association is Bob Rolston. He says, "Every one of our 23 counties will be impacted by this order. This order has the potential to take away revenue at a time when we are trying to come out of a recession and it will take away our way of life, too. Multiple-use of the public lands has shaped our culture and our communities."
"This really will have impacts on local economies in so many ways," Governor Mead says. "It will affect everything from oil and gas to ranching to tourism. All residents of Wyoming should be upset because their voices were not accounted for in the development of this order."

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/20110127.aspx
