Public Statements
Letter to Secretary Ken Salazar United States Department of the Interior
Letter
By: Matt Mead
Date: Jan. 17, 2011
Location: Unknown

Dear Secretary Salazar,
This letter is to advise you that I firmly oppose Secretarial Order 3310, which was released just before the Christmas holiday and while many gubernatorial offices, like mine, were in a state of transition. Though you will seek feedback from State BLM offices prior to issuing final agency guidance, the opportunity for public input on the policy itself was never afforded. The release of the policy as a done deal for states with a lot of public land, like Wyoming, invites suspicion. The Wild Lands policy has consequential uncertainty and yet an obvious motive -- to remove multiple-use
possibilities from public land through the designation of lands as "Wild."
The State of Wyoming and the people of Wyoming want and deserve a say in the land management policies that affect the well-being of our State and our citizens. The policy ignores the contribution of Wyoming's natural resources to the nation's economic sustainahility. It ignores the revenues our State and local governments depend on from mineral and other development. It fails to address the impact to ranchers, recreationalists, and all the others who rely on the lands for so many different reasons.
A Wild Lands designation will further drag out (if not permanently halt) the permitting process while local economies suffer. The BLM currently does not have the appropriate resources or track record for approval of plans and projects; and this will only make the problem greater and delays longer.
Only the elected Congress is given the power, by law, to designate official Wilderness areas. But, the policy seeks such designations by administrative fiat. With all due respect, the BLM cannot achieve these ends through this means. Please rescind the order for the reasons set forth in this letter and in the name of balance, transparency and the BLM's multiple-use mandate.
Sincerely,
Matthew H. Mead
Governor

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/Documents/Governor%20Mead%27s%20Response%20to%20DOI%20Secretarial%20Order%203310.pdf
