Public Statements
Matt Mead Sworn in as 32nd Wyoming Governor
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Jan. 3, 2011
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Matthew H. Mead was sworn in today as Wyoming's 32nd Governor in front of a crowd of 1100 at the Cheyenne Civic Center. The swearing in ceremony was viewed on a live feed by Wyoming schools and by soldiers in Iraq and Kuwait. The governor and First Lady Carol Mead then greeted the public in a reception in the Capitol Rotunda for two hours.
Also sworn in today and joining in the public reception at the Capitol were Secretary of State Max Maxfield, Treasurer Joe Meyer, Auditor Cynthia Cloud and Superintendent of Public Instruction Cindy Hill.
Governor Mead said in his Inaugural address that Wyoming "finds itself in a position any other state would envy. We have a balanced budget by law and by our fiscally conservative nature. We have great agriculture resources, we have great tourism. We have natural resources that, if managed well, can contribute to Wyoming's economy well into the future. But we have more than money and natural resources. We have clean air and water; we have open and unspoiled spaces that call to the resident and tourist alike."
Governor Mead said that he will focus on "Wyoming driven solutions to health care, to managing our wildlife, our water, our resources and our land." He described ways in which Wyoming is ready for a strong future, citing the record enrollment at the University of Wyoming, strong community colleges, Hathaway scholarships, the new School of Energy Resources at UW, the building of a supercomputer and the creation of testing for clean energy and coal gasification.
"We can attract new industries and diversify our economy through improved technology and connectivity," said Governor Mead.
He told the audience that he "ran for this office as a Republican," but that he pledges to serve all citizens, "not as Wyoming's Republican governor, but simply and proudly as Wyoming's governor."
Present at the ceremony were Wyoming's Congressional delegation: Senator Mike Enzi, Senator John Barrasso and Congressman Cynthia Lummis, as well as Wyoming Senate President Jim Anderson, Speaker of the House Ed Buchanan, Wyoming Supreme Court Chief Justice Marilyn Kite (who administered the oaths of office) and other dignitaries.
Governor Mead also welcomed the fourth grade class from Lusk, Wyoming, who are studying Wyoming history, urging them and all the students across the state who watched the ceremony live in their classrooms to prepare themselves to become Wyoming leaders tomorrow.
To access more about the Inauguration or to download audio clips, please go to http://governor.wy.gov/media.

Source: http://governor.wy.gov/media/pressReleases/Pages/MattMeadSworninas32ndWyomingGovernor.aspx
