Public Statements
Issue Position: Water
Issue Position
By: Matt Mead
Location: Unknown

* Retain, develop and use our water resources
* Resist out-of-state pipeline plans for the Green River
* Oppose federal efforts to increase control over our water
Wyoming is an arid state. Our water resources are precious and coveted by downstream states. We must allocate, protect and use all the water we can. Doing so is good not only for agriculture, but also for recreation, tourism, wildlife and industry. We need to put our water to a more full use for agriculture, industry, municipalities, recreation.
Wyoming is the headwaters of the nation. Each acre foot of water that has been appropriated to Wyoming that leaves our state is a loss to the state. We need to take a hard look at building new water storage facilities so that we can maximize our water resources.
While we are bound to the 1922 Colorado River Compact, Wyoming is not using its full allotment of water under that Compact. In water matters, as the saying goes, use it or lose it, and we want to use our full allotment here. Wyoming should not be expected to solve Colorado's water problem. As Governor, I'll be happy to provide Colorado with Wyoming goods, pipe them gas, send them electricity (they could even have our wolves!) but Wyoming should never allow the piping of water across and out of our state to solve the problem. I oppose the Colorado proposals to siphon the Green River.
Congress is considering, S. 787, Clean Water Restoration Act, which would change the Clean Water Act to regulate even more of our water -- our surface water. The proposed bill would not only increase federal control beyond navigable waters but, some have said, it would extend federal control to mud puddles. Federal government control over surface water would mean more interference with private property. I oppose this proposed change to the Clean Water Act. I applaud our Congressional Delegations' opposition to the S. 787 and Senator Mike Crapo's (R-ID) hold on the bill. As Governor, I will fight to protect our water.

Source:
