Public Statements
Issue Position: National Security
Issue Position
By: Matt Mead
Location: Unknown

* Support our country's war effort
* Support the Wyoming National Guard
* Remain vigilant about national security
Some in our country, sad to say, need reminded that we were attacked in 2001, and we are at war. We must always support our country's ongoing war effort. Returning home, Wyoming's brave men and women who have been deployed in the war effort and their families must have our full support. We must always support our troops here and abroad.
The threat is real. The recent guilty plea of Najibullah Zazi, a Colorado airport shuttle driver, on terrorism-related charges, as well as the attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound airliner on Christmas Day 2009 and the May 1, 2010 car bomb in Times Square in New York City which was ignited but disarmed before exploding, show that domestic security issues are still important. Those who would do us harm have not become complacent, and we must remain vigilant about national security.
The recent flooding in Albany, Carbon and Fremont Counties, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the earthquake in Haiti and the tsunami near Chile underscore the need for our National Guard should we have a national emergency in Wyoming. I will work to ensure that the Wyoming National Guard has the resources necessary to assist the people of Wyoming in an emergency like the recent flooding in Fremont County. As of the second week in June, over 200 National Guard personnel have been activated to help protect people and property in Fremont County.
As a former U.S. Attorney, who served on the U.S. Attorney General's Anti-terrorism Task Force, I am experienced on matters of national security and as Governor, I will be vigilant about such matters, and I am prepared to be. And at all times when I am Governor, I will provide full support to our troops and veterans. They take care of us--we must take care of them.

Source: http://www.meadforgovernor.com/issues/national-security
