Public Statements
Issue Position: Highway Maintenance
Issue Position
By: Matt Mead
Location: Unknown

Wyoming roads are the economic backbone of this state. In a rural state such as this, our roads, bridges and highways are an essential lifeline for new business development, the transport and export of our ag and mineral production, our tourism and, of course, our safety. Simply put, we are not keeping up with road maintenance. Everybody knows this -- we have all seen and experienced it. We all know that deferring maintenance does not ultimately save money; it costs more down the road because of further deterioration and rising repair costs. The question some have simply tried to sidestep or avoid entirely because it is a hard one is this: how do we fund the needed road maintenance so we can move Wyoming forward?
Our legislature has considered different options -- an appropriation (which has not provided nearly the funds needed for road repair and upkeep), a fuel tax or a toll road. The Governor does not pass legislation, and I am not proposing a new fuel tax. Only the legislature can implement a tax. I do remain open to looking at all reliable funding streams to address this deferred maintenance on our roads, bridges and highways. Of the alternatives looked at by our legislature, I think the toll road is the worst because of the huge costs associated with implementing it, which Wyoming citizens would pay, and because of the unfair distribution of the costs statewide. While I hope the budget picture will improve so appropriations can cover all road expenses, this has not yet materialized. And, as a candidate, I think it is important that my position on this be clearly stated. Other candidates for Governor have used semantics such as "blended funding streams" and "re-appropriating state funds". "Blended funding streams" is political talk for taxing; talking about "re-appropriating state funds" is classic avoidance of a direct answer. I do think that it is imperative that the federal government live up to its responsibility to adequately fund its share of the interstate highway system which includes I-80, I-90, and I-25. Neither you nor I have been able to put a lot of faith in the Federal Government"s promises in this arena. We must keep the pressure on while doing what Wyoming does best -- solving our own problems. As Governor, I will always address tough and unpopular issues head on rather than hiding behind double speak, evasiveness or blaming others. Wyoming needs good infrastructure to have a booming economy and move forward. As your Governor I will not ignore this critical issue.

Source: http://www.meadforgovernor.com/issues/highway-funding
