Public Statements
Issue Position: Protection of Property Rights
Issue Position
By: Matt Mead
Location: Unknown

Protection of State and Private Property Rights
* Protect our state's rights
* Protect private property rights
Wyoming should have a greater voice in its future -- not have its future dictated from Washington, D.C. We cannot sit dormant while the federal government treats us as no more than a great big park with a great big fuel pump. With determination and a strong voice, we will fight for our state's rights and join others in the struggle for more state self-determination. Whether it takes a lawsuit, joining with other state governors, use of the bully pulpit, or a combination of those things, as Governor, I will take up the fight for Wyoming's rights as a state.
The issue of states' rights is not just a talking point; it's a call to action. For example, we see states considering measures to oppose national cap and trade legislation. Wyoming and our country would be crippled by cap and trade. We must speak with a strong proactive voice in our State and join with governors in other states to provide leadership for our country. As Governor, I will do that. As the federal government becomes more saddled with debt and more unwieldy from sheer size and bureaucracy, states like Wyoming that are both fiscally disciplined and fundamentally sound will show the way, assuming the mantle of leadership while others follow our good example.
In large part, we owe our beautiful vistas, open spaces, clean environment, and recreational opportunities to private landowners. Private property rights and our land and water must be protected. The federal government, through laws like the Endangered Species Act and the proposed amendment to the Clean Water Act, continues to try to encroach on these rights. It's time for that to stop.
We must also insist that the Forest Service manage its forests in a way that the damage produced by beetle kill is reduced. A forest of dead trees moves us from multiple-use to no use. We should salvage some of those dead trees and reduce the fire risk.
I support Congressional work to reform the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) to stop it from funding radical environmental groups in their lawsuits or at the very least to give the rest of us equal funding to fight back. I support the Open EAJA Act of 2010. I oppose federal payments to environmental law firms -- a look at the taxpayers' dollars used to fund environmentalists in the snowmobile litigation alone is eye-popping--and in the absence of Congressional action would consider bringing suit against the EAJA.
As Governor, I will protect our unique Wyoming heritage. I'm firmly proud to call Wyoming home and to be an American. I say with heartfelt sentiment the Pledge of Allegiance and I disagree strongly with those who want to secede from our nation or use our National Guard troops against our own countrymen.

Source: http://www.meadforgovernor.com/issues/protection-of-state-and-private-property-rights
