Public Statements
Issue Position: Social Issues
Issue Position
By: Matt Mead
Location: Unknown

* Serve the needs of our State's older citizens well
* Confront substance abuse aggressively with prevention, enforcement and treatment
* Analyze suicide data and work at getting the rate down
There are social issues, such as population aging, substance abuse, and a reportedly high suicide rate, which need to be addressed. There are other issues like abortion and marriage that remain key to our way of life.
According to a recent demographic report, an employment slowdown may cause faster aging of our State's population. The percent of the Wyoming population age 65 and over in 2008 was about 12% and is projected to be over 20% in 2030. A higher proportion of those 65 and older live in rural areas. Wyoming also has a high proportion of early baby boomers (the earliest boomers born in 1946 turn 64 this year). With major life changes like retirement, living arrangements, or chronic disease, our State's older citizens will need more in the way of health care, transportation, and specialized housing. Our older citizens have worked for decades, raised children, nurtured grandchildren, and served Wyoming well in numerous ways.
Our programs need to keep up with the growth in assistance our older citizens need. We should make sure we maintain the necessary housing options and support services. For example, we should have the needed support programs in place for those who wish to remain in their own homes. We should also make sure senior centers receive funding for continued operation. Closing senior centers could result in isolating residents through living arrangements that are not right for them -- like living alone or living with others unwilling or unable to properly care for them. We owe senior citizens our best efforts to provide service that meets their needs.
Abuse and misuse of prescription drugs in Wyoming is an immediate and genuine concern and a deadly threat. This type of substance abuse, as well as other types (e.g., misuse of alcohol and use of methamphetamine, cocaine, marijuana, heroin) must be aggressively confronted with a three-pronged approach -- prevention, enforcement, and treatment. In the United States, the number of deaths involving controlled prescription drugs, particularly opioid pain relievers, such as oxycodone and hydrocodone, increased from 2001 through 2005. In fact, according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the number of deaths involving prescription opioids increased 114% from about 3900 in 2001 to 8500 in 2005. "Pharming parties" where young people take prescription drugs from home and then pool and ingest them are dangerous and are a social ill to be confronted.

Source:
