Public Statements
Issue Position: Transportation
Issue Position
By: Matt Mead
Location: Unknown

* Maintain our transportation infrastructure
* Work with counties and municipalities to address needs
* Examine funding streams
Our largely rural state must have its roads and bridges in good condition. Everyone -- our State and our country -- needs the major transportation routes, I-80, I-90 and I-25, to be in good condition. From rail lines, interstates, state highways to secondary roads, we have to fund our transportation infrastructure because it is an economic lifeline. If adequate infrastructure is in place, the export of our mineral and agricultural production, tourism, development of business that enhances our natural assets -- all have nearly limitless potential.
Many of our state highways double as the main streets of our communities. As Governor I will work in cooperation with our counties and municipalities to address infrastructure needs. I have serious reservations about the federal stimulus dollars and their impact on the national debt. My administration will continue to prudently monitor the release of these one-time federal dollars.
During difficult economic times I see tremendous opportunities to address the deferred maintenance across our state. We all know that it is cheaper to build and repair in the economic downtimes than in the boom times. We should not squirrel away every dollar under the mattress for the benefit of the state but to the detriment of our communities. The item that costs one dollar today will be many dollars in the coming years, and the interest we presently hope to make does not replace the value of a hard asset. Improperly funding maintenance now ultimately costs more later because of increased road damage and increased repair costs.
As Governor, I will make it a priority to use funds for needed infrastructure and maintenance of roads, bridges and public works. This keeps Wyoming contractors, city workers, and small business people working in our communities, their kids in our schools, and avoids transient populations. We will climb out of the slump much more quickly if we sustain our communities during difficult times. Looking at our roads, delayed maintenance is simply not a good idea. We should look at all funding streams. I am unconvinced that a toll on I-80 would be the answer. As Governor, I will pay special attention to the State's infrastructure needs so we can keep our economy and our daily lives moving.

Source: http://www.meadforgovernor.com/issues/transportation
