Public Statements
Issue Position: Immigration
Issue Position
By: Matt Mead
Location: Unknown

* Hold the federal government accountable for enforcement of immigration laws and for securing our southern border
* Work cooperatively with others to enforce federal law
Legal, not illegal, immigration helped build our great country. The best way we can show honor and respect to those who have come here legally is by addressing illegal immigration. I support the continuation of programs for legal immigrants to come work in Wyoming's agriculture and travel and tourism industries through H2-A and H2-B visas.
Regarding illegal immigration, I believe that our country's immigration laws must be enforced and our borders secured. I have an extensive law enforcement background. In addition to serving as a county prosecutor in Gillette and a federal prosecutor in Cheyenne, I served as United States Attorney for Wyoming from 2001 to 2007. As U.S. Attorney, among numerous other accomplishments, I vigorously prosecuted violations of immigration laws, increasing such prosecutions manyfold. As U.S. Attorney, I toured our southern border and was then, as I am now, deeply concerned that it remains unsecure. This is unconscionable considering we have men and women fighting terrorism and yet we still have an open border. Open borders also lead to many of the illegal drugs consumed in the country being brought across our borders.
The federal government has the responsibility to secure our country's borders and should not shirk that responsibility or add additional burdens on states by shirking it. Our unsecure southern border is like a house with a leaking roof. States are fed up. Arizona stepped up to address the issue as a state no longer able to wait for the federal government. I support their efforts. The federal government is responsible for fixing that leaky roof and securing the border and cannot pass that buck back to the states. Wyoming law enforcement has for years worked with federal immigration authorities to prosecute violations of immigration law. As Governor I would see this continue. Wyoming is not a border state but we will continue to ask state and local law enforcement to work on this issue in cooperation with federal officials.
We, as a country, have a fundamental right to say who comes into our country and that starts with a secure border.
Our state and our law enforcement officers must be fully supportive of federal laws that address illegal immigration and prosecute illegal immigrants who commit crimes in Wyoming and are working with others across our state to do so. As United States Attorney, I saw many examples of local officers working with federal enforcement officers to enforce federal law. But unless and until we secure the border we are not going to make real progress. Wyoming cannot arrest its way out of this issue. The border must be secured!

Source: http://www.meadforgovernor.com/issues/immigration
