Public Statements
Issue Position: Health Care and Quality of Life
Issue Position
By: Matt Mead
Location: Unknown

* Enhance the quality of life for Wyoming families
* Support strong law enforcement, with common sense treatment of juveniles
* Work for accessible, affordable health care
As Governor, I will tackle the tough issues that affect quality of life, like unemployment, health care, treatment of juveniles, domestic violence, services for persons with disabilities, teenage pregnancy, and the elderly. I want the best for Wyoming families now and in the future. We want safe, friendly communities and the ability to enjoy our great outdoors.
We should make sure that state agencies have specific missions in order to provide better service to families and so people do not get lost in the system. Wyoming Workforce Services is but one example of what can be done at the state level to improve quality of life for Wyoming citizens.
Wyoming must honor its commitment to the state retirement system. Like in the Code of the West, when you make a deal, you stick with it. The State must honor the deal. I was pleased to see the legislature address the issue this year by, among other things, increasing the employer contribution to the system.
As a former prosecutor, I recognize the value of good law enforcement, including the common sense treatment of juveniles. As Governor, in a law enforcement role, I will take an aggressive approach to dealing with drug dealers and those who prey upon our children. I will also work hard to see that our law enforcement officers have the resources needed to apprehend and convict violent felons and take them off the streets keeping our communities safe.
I support mandatory minimum sentences for those who assault or sexually abuse children and was encouraged that the issue was addressed in a law passed this budget session, creating a 25 year mandatory minimum sentence for adults convicted of first degree sexual abuse of children. With me, victims of crime are not a side note -- abused children, the sexually abused, victims of domestic violence, all victims must always be center stage in law enforcement decisions.
As for juveniles, some are treated too harshly and some are treated too lightly by the criminal justice system. Unsuccessful juveniles often mean unsuccessful adults. We should follow through with juvenile justice alternatives so that juveniles are a top priority.
Our State with its small population spread over a large rural area has health care issues unlike those of major urban areas. Our health care concerns include a shortage of medical personnel in rural areas, an aging population, the high cost of insurance and citizens who are willing to pay but deemed "uninsurable." Improvements in telemedicine, e.g., electronic medical records, and interstate insurance packages will help, but reforming health care won't be easy. Most importantly, we can solve the health care issues ourselves here in Wyoming, and as Governor I will tackle them.
Health care reform is not one size fits all. If health care is state-driven, it can be changed; if it is federally driven, it is mandated. I support health care reform at the state level. States have the ability to create innovative plans to fit individual needs. A health care reform demonstration project, created in the 2010 budget session, is an example of a state initiative which looks both for data and for solutions that may work for our state.
Wyoming should join with other states in the ongoing legal challenge against the recently passed federal health care law. In my view the law is unconstitutional and infringes on individual liberties. Our state's voice should be heard. Under the new federal law, the Federal government is meddling in one sixth of our national economy. The law will kill jobs, distress small businesses, and hurt future growth. The expansion of Medicaid, the mandate for individuals to purchase health insurance or be penalized -- these and other aspects of the federal law are not good for Wyoming or our citizens. This is not the time for our State to remain silent.

Source: http://www.meadforgovernor.com/issues/quality-of-life
