Public Statements
Issue Position: Outdoor Recreation
Issue Position
By: Matt Mead
Location: Unknown

* Promote outdoor activities like hunting and fishing
* Manage predators to maintain game herds and gain state control over wolves
* Enhance wildlife habitat and protect open spaces
While the campaign trail has put a dent in my fishing and hunting opportunities for this year, I am the proud owner of a lifetime Wyoming small game, bird and fishing license and a lifetime member of the NRA. I'm an avid outdoorsman -- love to hunt and fish. Simply put, I'm a sportsman and it is a tradition that I am passing along to my children.
We are blessed to live in Wyoming with abundant wildlife, open spaces, and access to the outdoors. As a businessman and rancher, I have worked, stewarded and loved the land my whole life. My experience of good land stewardship, built up over a lifetime of ranching, will come with me to the Governor's office if I am elected. I am committed to multiple-use of public lands and public access, and I support the Game and Fish's Access Yes Program. I do not believe we must choose between a vibrant energy economy and outstanding outdoor recreation. We can achieve a balance. The values of being deeply connected to the outdoors while encouraging appropriate development coincide. As Governor, I will hold firm on these issues of mutual importance.
A Wyoming writer recently described "his" huge ranch--the public lands of Wyoming. As citizens, we treasure our access to public lands for hiking, camping, photography, hunting, fishing, snowmobiling, mountain climbing, skiing and more. We have a greater sense of physical and mental well-being because of our activities on the land that is available to all of us. And when we look back on the most important memories of our lives, they are of being in the outdoors with our families. Access is precious in our checkerboard state and must be jealously guarded.
I grew up on the family ranch in Teton County, where my family has been ranching for four generations. We have personally dealt with the federal mismanagement of grizzly bears. We opposed bringing wolves into Wyoming as a threat to our livelihood. I know the negative impact predators have on both ranch animals and our big game herds. Large predators such as mountain lions, black bears, and grizzly bears need to be managed as trophy big game animals that can be hunted in Wyoming, but the Wyoming Game and Fish must ensure that these predators are not depleting our game herds. There must be a careful balance.
As Governor, I will continue the legal battle for state management of wolves. I will also find ways to compensate those who are adversely affected by wolves. The costs to private landowners, outfitters, guides and small businesses associated with bearing the burden of wolves should be spread among those who favor these predators. The expense should not be a detriment to the livelihood of people in Wyoming. We also know that while the federal government may draw arbitrary lines on a map for habitat areas, wolves do not respect boundaries, so I would actively engage the governors in our neighboring states on wolf management.
The Wyoming Wolf Management Plan designates areas that wolves should be classified as trophy game animals, but outside of this area they must be considered predators that can be shot on sight. The boundaries for wolves must be clearly marked but reasonably drawn. That does not mean that I support treating them solely as trophy big game animals, because they are predators and need to be treated as such.
In my view, the Wyoming Wildlife and Natural Resources Trust and the Hathaway Scholarships are the two single greatest investments we have made in the future of our state since the creation of the Permanent Mineral Trust Fund. Taking into account the budget constraints of the given year and the requirement that we have a balanced budget, I would continue to invest in the wildlife trust as funds are available. As Governor, I will be an advocate for hunters, anglers, campers, hikers and other outdoor enthusiasts, which includes supporting the continuation of the Wyoming Wildlife and Natural Resources Trust. I will support Wyoming's great state parks which provide so many outdoor opportunities for us all to enrich our lives.
When we talk about wildlife in Wyoming we also need to consider wind development. Planning and coordination from the State of Wyoming as wind projects move forward ensures we balance the desire to have wind development in Wyoming while protecting our wildlife and open spaces. With coordinated efforts, our State will be able to maximize energy development in a responsible, reasoned way and prevent haphazard growth, while providing a predictable path to those companies seeking to invest in Wyoming. Energy developers should not have to deal with multiple state agencies with different agendas. We should plan for transmission lines and collector lines so such lines do not, for lack of planning, end up making our state look like a plate of spaghetti.
I love Wyoming and our innumerable opportunities to hunt, fish, hike, camp, ski, canoe or just get out and get away. As Governor I will fight to protect and enhance these opportunities because they are so important to our quality of life.

Source: http://www.meadforgovernor.com/issues/outdoor-recreation
