Public Statements
Governor Appoints Robin Cooley and Martin Hardsocg to State Board of Equalization
Press Release
By: Matt Mead
Date: Feb. 24, 2015
Location: Cheyenne, WY

Governor Matt Mead announced today the appointment of Robin Sessions Cooley and Martin Hardsocg to the Wyoming State Board of Equalization. They replace Steven Olmstead whose term is expiring and Tom Glause who is now Wyoming's Insurance Commissioner. Appointees are confirmed by the Senate.
"Both Robin Cooley and Marty Hardsocg are experienced attorneys who have provided exemplary service to Wyoming throughout their careers. This is an important board that decides a full range of tax disputes - from individual homeowners to small business, up to multi-million dollar appeals by Wyoming's largest taxpayers. I have every confidence in their abilities to meet this challenge," Governor Mead said.
Robin Sessions Cooley serves as Deputy Attorney General of the Human Services Division, where she represents a variety of state agencies including the Department of Health, Department of Family Services, Department of Education and the Department of Transportation. She also teaches a Public Health Law Class as an adjunct professor at the University of Wyoming, College of Law. Working with these state agencies she has been involved in regulatory matters and is knowledgeable of state administrative hearing processes.
"I am looking forward to this new challenge and I appreciate the Governor's support and confidence in appointing me to this position," Cooley said.
Martin Hardsocg Jr. currently serves as Deputy Attorney General for the Civil Division and represents most of Wyoming's elected officials and a wide range of state agencies. He represented the state in defense of tax decisions before the Board of Equalization, and on appeal through Wyoming's courts for over a decade. Marty has extensive experience in state taxation matters and administrative law.
"I feel humbled and fortunate to have this opportunity to serve Wyoming's citizens on the State Board of Equalization, a tribunal I know well, and one that serves a vital, constitutional function within Wyoming's tax system," Hardsocg said.

Source: http://www.pitchengine.com/pitches/5354deee-4b08-4875-ac66-94ec6a356e92
