Public Statements
RI Commerce Corporation Hires new Chief Marketing Officer
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: June 10, 2016
Location: Unknown

Today, Rhode Island Commerce Secretary Stefan Pryor announced that Ocean State native Lara Salamano will serve as the new Chief Marketing Officer at the Rhode Island Commerce Corporation.
"Attracting tourists and businesses is essential to supporting and revitalizing the Rhode Island economy," said R.I. Commerce Secretary Stefan Pryor. "Lara's expertise in the marketing field, combined with her passion for her home state -- is what we need for these efforts."
Salamano, a native Rhode Islander, graduated from the University of Rhode Island and comes to the Commerce Corporation after serving as Vice President for Partner Marketing for Pop Media. In this role she oversaw and executed strategic ad campaigns for clients focused on a 360 degree approach to marketing, working across multiple demographics, target audiences, age groups, and platforms.
As the Chief Marketing Officer, Salamano will lead the coordinated, data-driven statewide marketing campaign to bring more tourists and more businesses to Rhode Island. She will start on July 11th, 2016.
"As a Rhode Islander, the opportunity to share Rhode Island's story with the world was an opportunity I could not miss," said Salamano. "Rhode Island has an untold number of treasures, from our lively history as shown at Gaspee Days to our world-class culinary experiences, and I look forward to working with Secretary Pryor, the Commerce team, and the regional tourism bureaus to share Rhode Island's compelling narrative."
"Lara makes a great choice for CMO," said Bob Billington, Blackstone Valley Tourism Director. "She will serve Rhode Island well."
"Tourism is a vitally important sector for the state, and this CMO will play an integral role in further growing our market share. I was pleased to take part in the CMO selection process that has led to identifying the right candidate for the position," said Martha Sheridan, president and CEO of the Providence Warwick convention and visitors bureau. "Lara is a native Rhode Islander that brings strong experience from the private sector and has the energy needed to move this program forward."
"Lara Salamano knows Rhode Island. She was born, raised and educated here," said Evan Smith, President and CEO of Discover Newport. "Her professional accomplishments have taken her from coast to coast and her desire to return to her roots is a testament to the opportunities and exceptional quality of life in this great state. Ms. Salamano is sincerely enthusiastic about the growth opportunity for travel and tourism in Rhode Island. She has an impressive track record and contagious energy when it comes to marketing on a global scale. This marketing experience makes her the ideal candidate to develop an inspirational brand buoyed by a comprehensive marketing strategy. With the support of the tourism regions, I have every confidence Ms. Salamano will be able to apply her remarkable talent and proven skill set to our industry and take it to the next level."

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27778
