Public Statements
Patrick Marr to Serve as Chief of Staff at Rhode Island Treasury
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: June 7, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Patrick Marr will assume the role of Chief of Staff for the Rhode Island Treasury on June 15, as Jeff Padwa returns to the private sector.
"Patrick Marr has a long track record of success at Treasury," said General Treasurer Seth Magaziner. "I have full confidence in his ability to continue moving our office forward as Chief of Staff. I thank Jeff for his service and wish him well in his future endeavors. Jeff played an instrumental role in my administration's early achievements to help reach a negotiated settlement to the state's pension reform, make Rhode Island Treasury one of the most transparent in the nation, and pursue lawsuits against fossil fuel companies that harm investors and cause environmental damage."
Marr currently serves as Deputy Treasurer and Chief Operating Officer, overseeing Treasury's Unclaimed Property and Crime Victims Compensation Fund programs as well as Information Technology, Human Resources, Reconciliation and the Central Business Office. He joined Treasury in 2007, serving both Treasurer Caprio and Treasurer Raimondo in a number of roles including Director of Finance and Information Systems. Marr is a graduate of Providence College.
"I'm humbled by the opportunity to serve as Treasurer Magaziner's Chief of Staff, and look forward to advancing our crucial work to serve the retirement needs of the members of the state's pension system, and developing policies and programs to help grow our economy and improve financial stability for all Rhode Islanders," Marr said.
"After nearly six years of public service it is time for me to return to the private practice of law," Padwa said. "It has been an honor to work with Treasurer Magaziner and such a talented and effective group of colleagues at the Rhode Island Treasury. Treasurer Magaziner is a thoughtful and energetic leader with a bright future. I will continue to support him wholeheartedly in all of his future endeavors."
Treasurer Magaziner also announced the appointments of Amy Crane as General Counsel, and Lisa Churchville as Chief Operating Officer. Crane has served as Treasury's Deputy General Counsel since January 2015. She previously served as the Senior Assistant City Solicitor for the City of Providence and regularly represented the city before the Superior Court. Churchville has served as the Director of the Rhode Island CollegeBoundfund since January 2016. She is the former President and General Manager of NBC-10 and has served on the boards of The Greater Providence Chamber of Commerce, Women & Infants Hospital and Bryant University.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27742
