Public Statements
Raimondo Submits Nomination for Postsecondary Council
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: June 7, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo has nominated Rachelle R. Green to the Rhode Island Board of Education's Council on Postsecondary Education. The Governor submitted her name to the Rhode Island State Senate for its advice and consent.
"We must support our students as they pursue their studies after high school," Raimondo said. "Our priority is to make it easier for graduates to attend college or other postsecondary programs after high school. By working together we can help our kids get the skills they need to succeed in the 21st century economy."
"I am very honored by this nomination," Green said. "I look forward to serving on the Council on Postsecondary Education, and thank Governor Raimondo for her consideration."
Rachelle Green, Esq., is a partner at Duffy & Sweeney, LTD, specializing in litigation and employment law. She previously worked as an associate attorney at McGovern, Noel & Benik, and then at Holland & Knight, when the firms merged. Green earned her law degree from the Georgia State University College of Law, finishing her last year at Northwestern University School of Law, and a Bachelor of Arts degree from the College of the Holy Cross.
She is a board member and former president of the Board of Directors for Big Brothers Big Sisters of the Ocean State, and a member of the Executive Leadership Team for the American Heart Association's Go Red for Women and the Rhode Island Public Radio Community Advisory Board.
Green will replace John J. Smith, Jr., whose term on the Board has ended.
"I also want to thank John for his service, and for working to improve postsecondary education in our state. I wish him the very best," continued Raimondo.
The Council on Postsecondary Education is Rhode Island's chief policymaking body for higher education, coordinating the state's public colleges and university (CCRI, RIC, and URI). Together with the Council on Elementary and Secondary Education, the Council on Postsecondary Education is part of the Board of Education that oversees the entire PK-20 education system in Rhode Island.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27745
