Public Statements
RIEMA to Host Free Disaster Preparedness Seminar for Pawtucket and Central Falls Senior Citizens
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: June 6, 2016
Location: Cranston, RI

The Rhode Island Emergency Management Agency (RIEMA), in partnership with the City of Pawtucket, the City of Central Falls, the Rhode Island Division of Elderly Affairs (RIDEA), the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH), Rhode Island Red Cross, and United Way 2-1-1 will host a free Disaster Preparedness Seminar event geared towards Rhode Island senior citizens on June 8th from 1 pm -- 3 pm at St. Mary's Hall in Pawtucket, RI.
The event will consist of a presentation by RIEMA and the Pawtucket/Central Falls Emergency Management Agency on the importance of developing a disaster-supply kit, making an emergency communications and medical plan, and knowing what local emergency resources are available to seniors.
Following the presentation, RIEMA and the supporting organizations will provide seniors with important resources and information, as well as assist them with registering with the RI Special Needs Emergency Registry and CodeRED, a rapid emergency notification system designed to deliver critical communications that notifies citizens about crucial life safety-related information. Additionally, light refreshments will also be made available courtesy of the Navigant Credit Union.
"We are excited to kick off the 2016 Atlantic Hurricane Season by hosting this important event for the Cities of Pawtucket and Central Falls," said RIEMA Director Peter Gaynor. "When preparing for hurricane season the needs of all members of a household should be considered. Senior citizens, in particular, can be more vulnerable and may need help with preparedness planning. Therefore, we will continue to work with local communities in an effort to broaden our preparedness outreach initiative to the Rhode Island senior citizen population."
"I want to thank our partners at the state level for coordinating with our communities to provide our seniors with the valuable skills they may need to survive a catastrophic event," said Pawtucket Mayor Donald Grebien. "This initiative enables the communities of Pawtucket and Central Falls to offer the type of quality, efficient, public safety services that our residents deserve." "Our local and state governments work very hard to provide the highest quality public services to the taxpayers in our communities," said Central Falls Mayor James Diossa. "Ensuring that our residents are equipped with the knowledge and skills to improve their quality of life is a priority for our public safety and health organizations. I'm thankful for the leadership of our local and statewide partners that were able to bring this proactive event together for the benefit of the community." "Seniors, in particular, can face a host of special circumstances that require even more foresight in planning for emergencies," says Division of Elderly Affairs Director Charles Fogarty. "Older adults and caregivers need to know what to do ahead of time so they've had time to put information in place, so they can build their confidence. If they know what they're going to do, it saves time, saves confusion, and gives them piece of mind."

Source:
