Public Statements
RIDOT Announces Schedule Change for Free Trains to Rhode Island National Guard Open House and Air Show
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: June 3, 2016
Location: Unknown

PLEASE NOTE: The train schedule has changed effective Thursday morning, June 9, 2016. Please check out this link for the latest information: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27766.
The Rhode Island Department of Transportation announced today a more robust schedule for free trains to this year's Rhode Island National Guard Open House and Air Show on June 11 and 12, adding two additional trains for visitors to one of Rhode Island's most popular and most attended events of the summer season.
Those going to the Air Show can catch the train at either Providence Station, 100 Gaspee St., Providence, or T.F. Green Station, at 700 Jefferson Blvd., Warwick. There will be two train departures per station to the Air Show, with three return trains stopping at both stations. Train fares will not be collected, and attendees will be asked to consider making a donation to Hasbro Children's Hospital when they arrive at the Air Show.
In this debut year of Air Show train service, the capacity of the trains is limited and is first come, first served. Free parking will be available at the State Offices parking lots and at the T.F. Green Station/Interlink parking garage. Space is limited at both locations. RIDOT will post signs and use its electronic highway message boards to direct attendees to the parking areas. RIDOT also will use its electronic message boards to indicate if the lots and trains are full. As always, parking is free at the Air Show. During the event, RIDOT will provide updates on train availability and traffic conditions on its social media sites on Facebook (www.facebook.com/RIDOTNews) and Twitter (@RIDOTNews).
The updated schedule, which is the same for both days of the Air Show, is as follows:
To the Air Show:
Depart Providence - 7:29 a.m.; Depart T.F. Green - 7:45 a.m.; Arrive Quonset - 8:15 a.m.
Depart Providence - 9:30 a.m.; Arrive Quonset - 10:15 a.m.
Depart T.F. Green - 11:15 a.m.; Arrive Quonset - 11:45 a.m.
From the Air Show:
Depart Quonset - 2:30 p.m.; Depart T.F. Green - 3 p.m.; Arrive Providence - 3:16 p.m.
Depart Quonset - 4:30 p.m.; Depart T.F. Green - 5 p.m.; Arrive Providence - 5:16 p.m.
Depart Quonset - 6:30 p.m.; Depart T.F. Green - 7 p.m.; Arrive Providence - 7:16 p.m.
The same rules regarding what attendees can bring into the Air Show are also in effect on the trains. Backpacks, coolers, bicycles and pets are not allowed. While the Air Show does allow visitors to bring lawn chairs and camp chairs into the event, attendees traveling on the train are asked to only bring collapsible camp chairs. More information on items you can and can't bring with you into the Air Show are listed online at www.rhodeislandairshow.com.
RIDOT, working in conjunction with the R.I. National Guard, the National Guard Association of Rhode Island, the Rhode Island Airport Corporation, the Quonset Development Corporation, Seaview Railroad, and the MBTA, is providing this service to make it easier for families to attend the show, and to limit traffic congestion on highways and local roads leading to the show at Quonset State Airport in North Kingstown. During this introductory pilot year, the service is maximized at six trips based on train equipment availability. RIDOT and the R.I. National Guard will monitor usage and evaluate the service for future Air Shows.
Commuter rail service between Providence, T.F. Green and the Wickford Junction station runs Monday through Friday, with continuing service to Boston on most trains. Last month, the MBTA modified its train schedule for improved service including better options for morning and after-work commutes and a late train for nights out or attending sporting events. Visit www.dot.ri.gov/CommuterRail for the latest schedule. Additionally, bus service is now available at Wickford Junction, providing a combined bus and train schedule with 80 stops per day and free parking.
Contact: Charles St. Martin 401-222-1362 x4007, 401-641-8934

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27709
