Public Statements
DEM Announces Annual Reclassification of Shellfish Waters, Seasonal Closures in Effect This Weekend
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 27, 2016
Location: Unknown

The Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management (DEM) today announced the reclassification of several areas of the state's shellfish harvesting waters. Areas in Sakonnet Harbor, Kickemuit River, and the East Passage have been reclassified based on water quality monitoring results. The changes take effect at sunrise on Saturday, May 28 - along with seasonal shellfish closures.
"Having clean bays, rivers, and coastal waters is vital to our state and our families," said DEM Director Janet Coit. "Digging for clams and other shellfish is a favorite pastime for Rhode Islanders and it also support the livelihoods of our commercial shellfishermen. I am proud of the work our team and many partners are doing to ensure the vibrancy of our waters so we can continue to offer excellent shellfishing opportunities."
Rhode Island has a diverse and dynamic commercial fishing and seafood industry. Steeped in tradition, the industry continues to thrive due to the health and abundance of local favorites such as quahogs and littlenecks. Last year, nearly 100 million pounds of seafood arrived to a Rhode Island port - with an ex-vessel value over $75 million and an export value of more than $1 billion. Some 28 million shellfish were harvested from Narragansett Bay and Rhode Island coastal waters.
As a result of improved water quality conditions, Sakonnet Harbor in Little Compton will open for shellfish harvesting on a seasonal basis this fall. It was previously closed year-round. This area is defined as south of a line from the light at the end of the Sakonnet breakwater to a point of land near the end of Goodrich Lane on the eastern shore of the Harbor.
No changes in shellfish classification will go into effect this year for Upper Narragansett Bay; however, monitoring following rain events allowed the Conimicut Triangle area to be opened an additional 11 days and Area A, 13 days in 2015. The lower portion of the Providence River is showing promise and may be reopened conditionally to shellfishing in future years; before this can happen, shellfish management plans must be developed to ensure long term viability of the shellfish stock in the area.

Source:
