Public Statements
RIDOT Announces Schedule for Free Train Service to Rhode Island National Guard Open House and Air Show
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

PLEASE NOTE: The train schedule has changed effective Thursday morning, June 9, 2016. Please check out this link for the latest information: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27766.
In an effort to make it easier for families to visit the Rhode Island National Guard Open House and Air Show, the Rhode Island Department of Transportation (RIDOT) for the first time is offering free train service to the show -- one of the most popular and most attended events of Rhode Island's summer season.
RIDOT, working in conjunction with the R.I. National Guard, the National Guard Association of Rhode Island, the Rhode Island Airport Corporation, the Quonset Development Corporation, Seaview Railroad, and the MBTA, will offer two trains in each direction to the Air Show, which takes place at Quonset State Airport in North Kingstown on June 11 and 12. In this debut year of Air Show train service, the capacity of the trains is limited and is first come, first serve.
Those going to the Air Show can catch the train at either Providence Station, 100 Gaspee St., Providence, or T.F. Green Station, at 700 Jefferson Boulevard, Warwick. There will be one train per station to the air show, but the return trains will stop at both stations. Train fare will not be collected, and attendees will be asked to consider making a donation Hasbro Children's Hospital when they arrive at the Air Show.
"The Air Show is one of the most beloved events of the summer, and draws tens of thousands of people," RIDOT Director Peter Alviti, Jr. said. "We're pleased to provide a transit option for the show for visitor convenience and to help reduce long traffic jams we typically see on highways leading to the show."
The schedule is the same for both days of the Air Show and is as follows:
To the Air Show:
Depart Providence - 8:44 a.m.; Arrive Quonset - 9:30 a.m.
Depart T.F. Green - 10:45 a.m.; Arrive Quonset - 11:15 a.m.
From the Air Show:
Depart Quonset - 3:00 p.m.; Arrive T.F. Green - 3:30 p.m.; Arrive Providence - 3:46 p.m.
Depart Quonset - 4:50 p.m.; Arrive T.F. Green - 5:20 p.m.; Arrive Providence - 5:36 p.m.
"The Rhode Island National Guard Open House and Air Show is an opportunity for many of our citizens throughout the state to meet and get to know the proud men and women of the Rhode Island National Guard," said Brig. Gen. Christopher Callahan, the Adjutant General and Commanding General of the Rhode Island National Guard. "The new train service will only enhance that opportunity and we look forward to welcoming all those who choose this new and exciting option."
The same rules regarding what attendees can bring into the Air Show are also in effect on the trains. Backpacks, coolers, bicycles and pets are not allowed. While the Air Show does allow visitors to bring lawn chairs and camp chairs into the event, attendees traveling on the train are asked to only bring collapsible camp chairs. More information on items you can and can't bring with you into the Air Show are listed online at www.rhodeislandairshow.com.
"The National Guard Association of Rhode Island would like to thank the Rhode Island Department of Transportation for its support of our Citizen-Soldiers and the communities that our Soldiers and Airmen proudly serve. It is our hope that this partnership will encourage people who've never experienced this amazing exhibit of America's best to come check us out," said Russel Donahue, President of the National Guard Association of Rhode Island.
Free parking will be available at the State Offices parking lots and at the T.F. Green Station parking garage. Space is limited at both locations. RIDOT will post signs and use its electronic highway message boards to direct attendees to the parking areas. RIDOT also will use its electronic message boards to indicate if the lots and trains are full. As always, parking is free at the Air Show. During the event, RIDOT will provide updates on train availability and traffic conditions on its social media sites on Facebook (www.facebook.com/RIDOTNews) and Twitter (@RIDOTNews).
Commuter rail service between Providence, T.F. Green and the Wickford Junction station runs Monday through Friday with continuing service to Boston on most trains. The MBTA this week modified its train schedule for improved service including better options for morning and after-work commutes and a late train for nights out or attending sporting events. Visit www.dot.ri.gov/CommuterRail for the latest schedule. Additionally, bus service is now available at Wickford Junction, providing a combined bus and train schedule with 80 stops per day.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27634
