Public Statements
Rhode Island's Fallen Veterans Honored in State House Ceremony
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Lt. Governor Daniel J. McKee was joined today by Governor Gina M. Raimondo, Brigadier General Christopher P. Callahan, Adjutant General of Rhode Island and Commanding General of the Rhode Island National Guard, and other state officials for the annual Remembrance Ceremony at the Rhode Island State House Garden of Heroes.
The Governor, Lieutenant Governor and other dignitaries honored Rhode Island's fallen veterans with a wreath-laying at the Garden, which was dedicated in 2005 to Rhode Island service members who have made the ultimate sacrifice for their country since September 11, 2001.
The ceremony was attended by loved ones of some of the 28 service men and women honored on the engraved monument in the Garden. The Reverend Robert L. Marciano, Colonel and Chaplain of the Rhode Island National Guard, presided over a moment of silence.
"Today we stand together and take a moment to honor the Rhode Island men and women who served our country bravely," said Lt. Governor McKee. "The laying of this wreath is a reminder to all who visit the State House of the courageous sacrifice these heroes have made for our nation."
"The service men and women we honor today put their lives on the line and made the ultimate sacrifice," Raimondo said. "They represent the best of our state: honorable, courageous and selfless. Together, in their memory, let's recommit ourselves to making our country, our communities and our families stronger so everyone has a chance to live in peace."
"It is my sincere hope that all Rhode Islanders pause and reflect on the true price of freedom as we lay a wreath today in honor of those who made the ultimate sacrifice defending our values, said Brigadier General Callahan. May we also remember the families of the fallen, who are reminded daily of the meaning of selfless service."
The Garden was established through legislation introduced at the request of former Lt. Governor Charles J. Fogarty. The Office of the Lieutenant Governor oversees the continued care of the Garden as its custodian.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27620
