Public Statements
Pawtucket Man Found Guilty of Child Molestation
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 24, 2016
Location: Unknown

Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin announced that today Joao Viera (age 76), of Pawtucket, was found guilty by a Providence County Superior Court jury of two counts of first degree child molestation and one count of second degree child molestation.
The jury returned the verdict in three hours after a weeklong trial presided over by Superior Court Justice Netti C. Vogel.
During the trial, the state proved that on or about June 29, 2011, Joao Viera molested a five-year-old girl who was visiting her grandmother at an apartment complex in Pawtucket. Under the pretense of accompanying the young girl to her friend's apartment, the defendant took the girl to his apartment where he molested her. Jurors saw surveillance video of the defendant leading the young girl into his apartment and then ushering her out approximately 48 minutes later. On the video, the defendant is seen shirtless and the victim's clothes askew.
The girl immediately reported the molestation to her mother, who in turn contacted the Pawtucket Police. The young girl was taken to Hasbro Children's Hospital for a physical exam followed by an interview at the Children's Advocacy Center at Day One in which she disclosed the abuse. The victim, who is now ten years of age, testified at the trial.
"The strength of this young girl to report the abuse when it happened and to share the horrific facts in a courtroom before her abuser and strangers is truly remarkable, and it is a testament to the support system of police, doctors, advocates, and prosecutors that are in place to support for victims of molestation and sexual abuse from when the abuse is first disclosed to when justice is served," said Attorney General Kilmartin.
The defendant, who has been held without bail since his arrest, was remanded back to the ACI pending sentencing.
Pawtucket Police Detectives Richard Laforest and David Silva led the investigation. Special Assistant Attorneys General Shannon Signore and Laura Nicholson, both of the Child Abuse Unit, prosecuted the case on behalf of the Office of Attorney General.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27613
