Public Statements
Treasurer Magaziner Nominates State Investment Commission, Retirement Board Members
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 19, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

General Treasurer Seth Magaziner today announced his nominations of the dean of Providence College's business school to serve on the State Investment Commission (SIC); and a Brown Medical School physician to serve on the State Retirement Board.
State Investment Commission:
Sylvia Maxfield is the Dean of the Providence College School of Business and a professor at the Simmons School of Management. She previously held teaching positions at Harvard and Yale. Maxfield has published seven books and dozens of scholarly articles. She serves on the boards of the Greater Providence Chamber of Commerce, Social Enterprise Greenhouse and the 21st Century Fund, among others. She earned her B.A. in government and economics from Cornell University, and her Ph.D. in political economy from Harvard University.
State Retirement Board:
Dr. Laura Shawhughes is a physician at The Miriam Hospital, and an assistant professor of medicine at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University. She earned her medical degree from New Jersey Medical School, where she was awarded the Glasgow-Rubin Achievement Citation and graduated with honors. She earned her B.A. from Wellesley College.
"I am pleased to nominate such eminently qualified candidates as Sylvia Maxfield and Dr. Laura Shawhughes to serve respectively on the State Investment Commission and the Retirement Board," Treasurer Magaziner said. "These crucial boards will benefit from the professional expertise that Dean Maxfield and Dr. Shawhughes bring, and I commend them for their commitment to serve our state."
The State Investment Commission is a 10-member volunteer body that is chaired by Treasurer Magaziner. The Commission, which meets monthly, oversees the investments of the Employees' Retirement System of Rhode Island.
The State Retirement Board is a 15-member volunteer body that is chaired by Treasurer Magaziner. The Board, which meets monthly, oversees the Employees' Retirement System of Rhode Island.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27580
