Public Statements
RIDOH Announces Awards to Strengthen Healthcare Workforce And Address Health Disparities
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 18, 2016
Location: Unknown

The Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH) and the Health Professionals Loan Repayment Board announced more than $823,000 in loan repayment awards today aimed at strengthening the healthcare workforce and narrowing health disparities by increasing the number of providers in medically underserved communities.
The awards went to 24 healthcare professionals, including physicians, dentists, nurses, and mental and behavioral healthcare providers. In accepting their loan repayment awards, the recipients have committed to practicing in underserved communities in Rhode Island for at least two years.
"The Health Professionals Loan Repayment Program is one of many innovative ways that we are expanding opportunity and bringing top-tier talent to Rhode Island," said Governor Gina M. Raimondo. "The healthcare industry is vital to the health of our overall economy. We need to continue making our state as attractive as possible for providers entering the workforce."
"Health and medical education can be expensive. This program helps remove barriers that may keep talented, motivated people from entering this field," said Elizabeth Roberts, Secretary of the Executive Office of Health and Human Services. "Innovative partnerships between federal and state government, community partners and employers, and health professionals are helping us draw the best and brightest workforce to Rhode Island."
"The Health Professionals Loan Repayment Program is essential to our work to eliminate health disparities by ensuring access to quality health services and care in every zip code in Rhode Island," said Nicole Alexander-Scott, MD, MPH, Director of Health and Chair of the Health Professional Loan Repayment Board. "One of the best ways to build healthy communities is to make sure that everyone receives the kind of sound, fundamental preventive care that these health professionals provide. I commend each of this year's recipients for helping us build a healthier Rhode Island."
Funding for the program comes from the federal government and from various health and community organizations. The Rhode Island Health Center Association solicited matching funds from many of these organizations.
"The recruitment and retention of health professionals is a critical need in order to have the necessary workforce to provide comprehensive medical services to Rhode Islanders, particularly in communities where access to care can be challenging. The loan repayment program is a critical tool necessary to help ensure an adequate supply of professionals," said Jane A. Hayward, president and CEO of the Rhode Island Health Center Association.
Contributions to the Health Professionals Loan Repayment Fund were made by the Rhode Island Foundation ($200,000), Neighborhood Health Plan of Rhode Island ($50,000), the Rhode Island Health Center Association ($50,000), Delta Dental of Rhode Island ($50,000), Landmark Hospital ($50,000), and CharterCARE ($50,000), Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Rhode Island ($30,000), and UnitedHealthcare Rhode Island ($25,000).
More information about the Health Professionals Loan Repayment Program, including a definition of a medically underserved community.
Health Professionals Loan Repayment Program Award Recipients
Ann Bisland Blackstone Valley Community Health Center; Primary Care Certified Nurse Practitioner
Stephanie Bursell Thundermist Health Center; Registered Dental Hygienist
Jennifer Cabrera Providence Community Health Center; Registered Nurse
LaShun Carroll Thundermist Health Center; Dentist
Danielle Cummings Thundermist Health Center; Dentist
Deborah Doran Thundermist Health Center; Licensed Clinical Social Worker
Sadie Elisseou Providence VA Medical Center; Primary Care Physician
Marileni Espinal Providence Community Health Center; Registered Nurse
Alice Eyo Blackstone Valley Community Health Center; Registered Nurse
Sarah Gambell Providence Community Health Center; Licensed Clinical Social Worker
David Greenblatt Comprehensive Community Action Program; Primary Care Certified Nurse Practitioner
Jennifer Hopgood Thundermist Health Center; Primary Care Certified Nurse Practitioner
Altug Koymen Providence Community Health Center; Primary Care Physician
Milton Liu Blackstone Valley Community Health Center; Dentist
Phina Mayu Blackstone Valley Community Health Center; Registered Nurse
Cristine McCormick Thundermist Health Center; Primary Care Physician
Suzanne McLaughlin The Medicine Pediatrics Primary Care Clinic; Primary Care Physician
Shayna Nadeau Thundermist Health Center; Licensed Clinical Social Worker
Kanchan Pande WellOne Primary Medical and Dental; Dentist
Jessica Salak Providence Community Health Center; Primary Care Physician
Lauren Schlanger Providence VA Medical Center; Primary Care Physician
Britni Simons Thundermist Health Center; Licensed Clinical Social Worker
Sara Watson Thundermist Health Center; Primary Care Physician
Tiffanie Waldeck-Napolitano Wood River Health Services; Dentist

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27564
