Public Statements
Raimondo Names New Commissioner of Energy Resources, Appoints Gold to Public Utilities Commission
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 13, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today nominated Marion Gold to be a Commissioner on the Rhode Island Public Utilities Commission (PUC). She also nominated Carol Grant to replace Gold as the Commissioner of the Office of Energy Resources (OER). The Governor will submit their names to the Rhode Island State Senate on Tuesday for its advice and consent.
An expert in the field, Gold has positioned Rhode Island as a leader in energy efficiency and renewable energy. She has driven growth in the clean and renewable energy sectors, led the completion of RI's first State Energy Plan, and worked in partnership with the RI Infrastructure Bank to launch new energy financing tools. Prior to her time as the Office of Energy Resources Commissioner, Gold was the Director of the University of Rhode Island (URI) Outreach and Energy Center and was the Manager of URI's Extension and Research Programs in Sustainable Horticulture.
"Under Marion's leadership at the OER, Rhode Island has emerged as a national leader on innovative clean energy programs and green job growth," Raimondo said. "In the past year, Rhode Island has seen 40 percent growth in green jobs. Marion has the deep experience and background to be an exceptional PUC Commissioner."
As a Commissioner, Gold will help lead the PUC as it begins to tackle the important issues of integrating renewables into the grid, bringing the electric system into the 21st century, and creating a robust green economy.
"I am honored to be selected to join the PUC," Gold said. "The PUC has been an important player in advancing Rhode Island's energy system, while doing great work on grid modernization. I'm excited to lend my expertise to these efforts and look forward to being considered by the Senate."
Gold holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan and a master's degree in environmental economics from Michigan State University as well as a Ph.D. in Environmental Sciences from the University of Rhode Island. She is the Vice Chair of the RI Executive Climate Change Coordinating Council.
Gold will replace Paul J. Roberti, who was appointed as a PUC Commissioner in 2009.
"I also want to thank Paul for his service, and for his work to protect the interests of Rhode Island ratepayers. I wish him the very best," Raimondo said.
Carol Grant joins OER with more than 20 years of experience in operations, strategic human resources, policy, law, and communications. Most recently, she served in leadership roles at two different renewable energy companies.
"I have the utmost confidence that Carol will build on Marion's great work creating new investment opportunities, reducing energy costs for our families and businesses, shrinking Rhode Island's carbon footprint, and ensuring a more reliable and sustainable energy system," Raimondo said. "Her unique experience at renewable energy companies will help bring us into a secure, cost-effective, and sustainable energy future."
As OER Commissioner, Grant will lead policy and planning for Rhode Island's nationally-recognized clean energy programs. She will ensure Rhode Island continues to excel in energy efficiency innovation and will take steps to expand local and regional renewable energy. She will also address the challenges of affordability, resiliency, grid modernization, and system integration.
"I look forward to helping Rhode Island move forward with an aggressive clean energy strategy, and continuing Marion's great work at OER," Grant said. "I'd like to thank Governor Raimondo for placing her confidence in me. I look forward to this exciting challenge, and I am eager to begin the process with the Senate."
Grant holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri and a Juris Doctor from the University of Michigan.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27524
