Public Statements
State Arts Council Announces New Show in T.F. Green Art Gallery
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 13, 2016
Location: Unknown

The Rhode Island State Council on the Arts (RISCA) announced today that a new art exhibition, entitled MEMORY'S LANDSCAPE, will be held from May 13 through September 1, 2016 at GREEN SPACE, a gallery at T.F. Green Airport in Warwick that presents the work of contemporary Rhode Island artists.
MEMORY'S LANDSCAPE features three artists whose works reference the tradition of landscape painting in various ways. Within this exhibit, the nostalgic paintings of Jonathan Small nod strongly to traditional landscape painting; the constructed works of Ernest Jolicoeur form places remembered; and the large, narrative canvases of Robert Dilworth explore memory, myth, folktale, and spiritual belief viewed through the lens of the African American experience, thus the human condition.
Nationally recognized and exhibited, Robert Dilworth has won awards, grants and fellowships too numerous to mention in a career spanning 40 years. Working full-time as an artist, Bob is also a Professor of Art in Painting, Drawing, and Design in the Department of Art & Art History at the University of Rhode Island and Director of the URI Main Art Gallery. Shown here, his large-scale, mixed media paintings reflect both his technical expertise and his interest in experimental processes.
Ernest Jolicoeur received his BFA from Rhode Island College and his MFA from Yale School of Art. His works, in which he assembles and reassembles elements to create new space, tread the line between the figurative and the abstract. Returning to Rhode Island after a ten-year hiatus in New York, Jolicoeur has exhibited widely and received numerous awards, including a RISCA Merit award and RISCA Fellowship. Additionally, Jolicoeur is an Assistant Professor at Salve Regina University.
Hailing from a family of artists, Jonathan Small continued this tradition himself, studying Fine Art at the University of Colorado, the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston and the Massachusetts Art Institute. Locally, he is active in the Providence Art Club, the Portsmouth Arts Guild and the DeBlois Gallery. Focusing recently on landscape, he frequently starts his canvases on location, later finishing them in the studio where he strives to capture the light and atmosphere of a place through his memories. The artists were selected for exhibition by an accomplished panel consisting of Peter Geisser, arts educator and public artist, Karen Harris, painter, and Hollis Mickey, RISD Museum educator and new media artist. RISCA thanks the panelists for their service.
The Airport Galleries, a partnership between the Rhode Island Council on the Arts and the Rhode Island Airport Corporation, promote outstanding work by artists living and working in Rhode Island. The galleries present art to an ever-changing audience of local, national and international travelers.
For installation pictures of this show, please visit the RISCA Flickr site - see link below
About RISCA: The Rhode Island State Council on the Arts is a state agency supported by appropriations from the Rhode Island General Assembly and grants from the National Endowment for the Arts, a federal agency. RISCA provides grants, technical assistance and staff support to arts organizations and artists, schools, community centers, social service organizations and local governments to bring the arts into the lives of Rhode Islanders.
About RIAC: The Rhode Island Airport Corporation operates T.F. Green Airport and the five general aviation airports in Rhode Island. A long-time supporter of public art in Rhode Island, the Rhode Island Airport Corporation has worked with the Rhode Island State Council on the Arts on a number of public art commissions for T. F. Green and Block Island airports.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27518
