Public Statements
Statement from Governor Gina M. Raimondo Regarding Trump Administration's Proposed ACA Repeal
Statement
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: March 7, 2017
Location: North Kingstown, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today released the following statement regarding President Trump's proposed repeal of the Affordable Care Act:
"President Trump's plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act puts thousands of Rhode Islanders at risk of losing the care they need and makes healthcare more expensive for thousands of Rhode Islanders who can least afford it. I will do everything in my power to oppose Trumpcare, which benefits millionaires at the expense of hardworking Rhode Islanders and would destroy our progress to provide affordable, quality healthcare to almost all of our people. We must not allow newly covered elderly and working Rhode Islanders to lose access to care. Rhode Islanders' lives are at stake.
"I spoke at length with President Trump's Health and Human Services Secretary during last week's National Governor's Association meeting, and told him the Trump administration should emulate Rhode Island to strengthen the ACA across the nation. I also requested his commitment that no Rhode Islanders will lose their health insurance as a result of the President's plan.
"The Affordable Care Act is working in Rhode Island. Ninety-six percent of all Rhode Islanders now have health insurance, and our state is home to one the lowest uninsured rates in the country. Most every Rhode Islander has a family member or friend who gets the care they need because of the ACA. We have successfully controlled Medicaid costs without reducing benefits or eligibility; some Rhode Islanders have actually seen their premiums decrease by as much as 5 percent. The ACA is also providing urgent funding for our battle against the opioid crisis that takes lives and impacts families from every walk of life. We cannot go backward on these crucial investments in the people of Rhode Island."

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/29802
