Public Statements
It's Time to Act on Regional Dispatch, Say McKee and Municipal Leaders
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 9, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Lt. Governor Daniel J. McKee, municipal leaders, the Rhode Island League of Cities and Towns, and municipal police, fire and rescue personnel today called on the General Assembly to pass legislation that would enable cities and towns to establish Regional Emergency Communication Districts (RECDs).
The group spoke at the State House in support of Senate Bill 2807 introduced by Senator Louis P. DiPalma. In attendance were Pawtucket Mayor and President of the Rhode Island League of Cities and Towns Donald Grebien; Providence Mayor Jorge Elorza; Bristol Town Manager Tony Teixeira; Central Falls Mayor James Diossa; Cumberland Mayor William Murray; Johnston Mayor Joseph Polisena; Lincoln Town Administrator T. Joseph Almond; North Providence Mayor Charles Lombardi; North Smithfield Town Administrator Paulette Hamilton; Smithfield Town Manager Dennis Finlay; and West Warwick Town Manager Fred Presley, who is president of the City and Town Managers Association. Representatives from Cranston, East Providence and Little Compton also attended.
Under Executive Order 15-06, Lt. Governor McKee is seeking ways to empower municipalities to collaborate and achieve efficiencies and achieve savings that benefit Rhode Island taxpayers.
"This is about providing relief to Rhode Island taxpayers by helping our cities and towns operate as efficiently as possible while maintaining or improving the quality of service," said Lt. Governor McKee. "This should not be seen as a threat - this is an opportunity. Let's do right by our taxpayers and deliver the best, most efficient services possible. The time to act is now."
In recent months, the city or town councils of Central Falls, Cumberland, Johnston, Lincoln, North Providence, Pawtucket and Smithfield passed resolutions in support of enabling legislation that would allow the creation of an RECD in northern Rhode Island.

Source:
