Public Statements
Sixto Javier Pleads Guilty to Armed Robberies in Providence and Cranston
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 5, 2016
Location: Unknown

Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin announced that Sixto Javier (age 20), of Providence, pleaded guilty on Wednesday before Superior Court Justice Robert D. Krause to robbery and firearm charges for his role in multiple armed robberies in Providence and Cranston. Under the terms of the plea, Javier was sentenced to 27 years with 17 years to serve and the remainder suspended with probation.
The charges stem from a series of robberies that occurred on August 24, 2015, where five victims were robbed at gunpoint on the streets of Providence and Cranston. On that morning, Javier conspired with co-defendant Daniel Mangru (age 21), of Providence, juvenile co-defendant Jonathon Morales (age 17), of Providence, and another juvenile to commit five first degree robberies. They targeted unsuspecting pedestrians. For each robbery, Morales acted as the driver, while the Sixto and Mangru jumped out of the car and robbed each victim at gunpoint with a .380 caliber pistol. As a result of these confrontations, two victims were pistol whipped and sustained injuries.
Last week, Morales pleaded nolo contendre before Family Court Judge Howard I. Lipsey to first degree robbery and conspiracy. Under the terms of the plea agreement, Morales received a certified sentence of 20 years with 12 years to serve and the remainder suspended with probation. Morales will begin his sentence at the Rhode Island Training School until a "modification hearing" takes place at which time a Family Court judge will determine if the sentence should be modified or continued to be served at the Adult Correctional Institution. The modification hearing must be held prior to the 19th birthday of the juvenile. Under certification, Morales is convicted and the sentence will extend into adulthood.
Co-defendant Daniel Mangru previously pled guilty to multiple counts, including first degree robbery and conspiracy, and is awaiting sentencing.
The investigation was led by Providence Police Detectives Emilio Matos and Tom Kane and Cranston Police Detective Donald Salvatore. Special Assistant Attorney General Joseph McBurney prosecuted the cases against the adult co-defendants and Special Assistant Attorney General Edward G. Mullaney prosecuted the cases involving the two juvenile offenders.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27451
