Public Statements
Raimondo Nominates Two Members to Board of Elections
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 4, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today announced her intent to nominate Diane Mederos and Dr. Isadore "Izzy" Ramos to the Rhode Island Board of Elections. Raimondo will submit their names to the Rhode Island State Senate for confirmation this week.
"The Board of Elections is important to our democracy, and we need to have strong leadership," Raimondo said. "Last month, I was proud to sign into law legislation that will allow Rhode Islanders to register to vote online. This is just one way we are working hard to make it easier for people to engage with government so that our state becomes a place of opportunity for all. I am confident that Diane and Izzy understand these priorities and will serve our state well, bringing their management experience and commitment to public service to this Board."
"I also want to thank Frank Rego and former Senator Rhoda Perry for their years of service on the Board, and I wish them the very best," added Raimondo.
"It is an honor to have been selected to join the Board of Elections," Mederos said. "I am excited to get to work."
"I look forward to serving on the Board of Elections, and thank Governor Raimondo for her dedication to protecting the integrity of the electoral process," Dr. Ramos said.
Diane Mederos is the former Town Administrator of Bristol. She served in that role from 2004-2012. She also previously worked as District Director for Congressman David Cicilline and as Bristol Town Clerk. Mederos holds a Master of Science degree in public administration from the University of Rhode Island, a Bachelor of Science degree in business administration from Roger Williams University and a Bachelor of Arts degree in English and elementary education from Rhode Island College. She lives in Bristol.
Dr. Isadore Ramos is the former mayor of East Providence. In addition, Dr. Ramos previously worked as an Assistant Superintendent for the East Providence School Department. His 35 years of service to the East Providence School Department were recognized in 2014 when the gymnasium at East Providence High School was named in his honor. He holds Bachelor and Master of Science degrees in education from the University of Southern Illinois, and a certificate of administration from Rhode Island College. He also earned a certificate of advanced graduate study from the University of Connecticut and obtained his Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Administration from the University of Connecticut. He lives in East Providence.
"Diane and Izzy are hardworking and have high ethical standards," said Raimondo. "Izzy rose through the ranks of the East Providence School Department, beginning as teacher and finishing his career as Assistant Superintendent. In that role, he oversaw personnel and human resources. Diane managed the town of Bristol for nearly a decade and focused her energies on professionalizing the office. She instituted a series of workshops and training sessions for all department heads to create an atmosphere that encouraged teamwork, accountability, and professionalism. These are important skills for the role at the Board of Elections. I urge the Board with its new appointees to have a fresh start with a new executive director."
The Board of Elections is the state agency responsible for protecting the integrity of the electoral process and for effectively and efficiently administering the provisions of election laws. The Board is composed of seven members who are appointed by the governor with the advice and consent of the Senate to serve nine-year terms. These are the first two members Raimondo has nominated to the Board.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27426
