Public Statements
CRF Frozen Foods Expands Voluntary Recall to Include All Frozen Vegetable and Fruit Products
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Unknown

The Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH) is advising consumers that CRF Frozen Foods is expanding its recall of frozen organic and traditional fruits and vegetables because of potential Listeria monocytogenes contamination.
This expanded recall includes all of the frozen organic and traditional fruit and vegetable products manufactured or processed in CRF Frozen Foods' facility in Pasco, Washington since May 1, 2014. All affected products have best by dates or sell by dates between April 26, 2016 and April 26, 2018. These include approximately 358 consumer products sold under 42 separate brands. A list of products and brands is available online.
The products being recalled may have been purchased in all 50 U.S. states. RIDOH is working with retailers in Rhode Island to ensure that these products are pulled.
Products include organic and non-organic broccoli, butternut squash, carrots, cauliflower, corn, edamame, green beans, Italian beans, kale, leeks, lima beans, onions, peas, pepper strips, potatoes, potato medley, root medley, spinach, sweet potatoes, various vegetable medleys, blends, and stir fry packages, blueberries, cherries, cranberries, peaches, raspberries, and strawberries.
Listeria monocytogenes can cause serious and sometimes fatal infections in young children, frail or elderly people, and others with weakened immune systems. Although healthy individuals may suffer only short-term symptoms such as high fever, severe headache, stiffness, nausea, abdominal pain, and diarrhea, Listeria infection can cause miscarriages and stillbirths among pregnant women.
Consumers should not eat the recalled products. Consumers who purchased these products may return them to the store where they were purchased for a refund, or simply discard them. Consumers with questions may call the company's consumer hotline at (844) 551-5595, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. EST.
Seven people from three states have recently become ill and were hospitalized due to Listeria. Some of these illnesses have been linked to CRF-manufactured or processed products. Two of these individuals later died, but Listeria was not the cause of death in either person.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27431
