Public Statements
Providence Teen Sentenced for Armed Robberies
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Unknown

Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin announced that Jonathan Morales (age 17), of Providence, pleaded nolo contendre on Thursday April 28, 2016 before Family Court Judge Howard I. Lipsey to first degree robbery and conspiracy. Under the terms of the plea agreement, Morales received a certified sentence of 20 years with 12 years to serve and the remainder suspended with probation.
Morales will begin his sentence at the Rhode Island Training School until a "modification hearing" takes place at which time a Family Court judge will determine if the sentence should be modified or continued to be served at the Adult Correctional Institution. The modification hearing must be held prior to the 19th birthday of the juvenile. Under certification, Morales is convicted and the sentence will extend into adulthood.
The charges stem from a series of robberies that occurred on August 24, 2015, where five victims were robbed at gunpoint on the streets of Providence and Cranston. On that morning, Morales conspired with adult co-defendants Sixto Javier (age 20), of Providence, and Daniel Mangru (age 21), of Providence, and another juvenile to commit five first degree robberies. They targeted unsuspecting pedestrians. For each robbery, Morales acted as the driver, while the adult co-defendants would jump out of the car and rob each victim at gunpoint with a .380 caliber pistol. As a result of these confrontations, two victims were pistol whipped and sustained injuries.
Co-defendant Daniel Mangru previously pled guilty to multiple counts, including first degree robbery and conspiracy, and is awaiting sentencing. Sixto Javier's case is currently pending.
The investigation was led by Providence Police Detectives Emilio Matos and Tom Kane and Cranston Police Detective Donald Salvatore. Special Assistant Attorney General Edward G. Mullaney prosecuted the case on behalf of the Office of Attorney General. Special Assistant Attorney General Joseph McBurney is handling the cases against the adult co-defendants.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27427
