Public Statements
Governor, First Gentleman Celebrate College Signing Day
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: May 2, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo and First Gentleman Andy Moffit, joined by Education Commissioner Ken Wagner, Providence Mayor Jorge Elorza, Senator Harold M. Metts and Representative Anastasia P. Williams celebrated the postsecondary plans of Rhode Island's high school seniors today by hosting a College Signing Day celebration at Central High School in Providence.
"We need to support every student who chooses to continue their education past high school," Raimondo said. "In today's economy, our kids need more than just a high school diploma. That's why we're doing everything we can to make it easier for them to attend college or technical programs after high school, from funding scholarship programs like Rhode Island's Promise to offering the SAT for free."
"College is the ticket to success for young people across our state," Moffit said. "As someone who has taught in the classroom and worked in the field of education for many years, I care deeply about giving every child the opportunity to make it in Rhode Island. I hope that celebrating College Signing Day becomes a tradition for years to come."
"Ensuring our students have the access and skills they need to continue their education is a top priority of my administration," Elorza said. "I join Governor Raimondo and leaders from throughout the state in congratulating all students who have committed to furthering their education and wish them the best of luck throughout their college careers."
"The faculty and staff at Central High School have created an empowering environment for our students," Providence Public Schools Superintendent Chris Maher said. "It is rewarding to see our graduating seniors excited and prepared as they move on to the next step in their education. Their commitment to learning is inspiring our younger students to strive for a better future, and we thank Governor Raimondo and the First Gentleman for taking the time to celebrate these achievements."
The event was streamed live on the Governor's Facebook page.
About Reach Higher The national Reach Higher initiative, championed by First Lady Michelle Obama, inspires students to complete an education beyond high school. While College Signing Day is traditionally centered on student athletes' college choices, the White House has expanded the concept to include all high school students pursuing postsecondary education. High schools across Rhode Island are participating in the effort to congratulate seniors on their college plans.
Reach Higher RI, led by the First Gentleman, is designed to rally behind students who are working to build the skills they need for jobs that pay.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27417
