Public Statements
Raimondo Launches Rhode Island Manufacturing Initiative
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Jan. 26, 2017
Location: Cranston, RI

The week after her State of the State address which focused on expanding opportunity to ensure that every Rhode Islander has a shot, Governor Gina M. Raimondo today released details about a new Rhode Island Manufacturing Initiative and signed an executive order establishing the Rhode Island Manufacturing Advisory Council. The Governor announced the new initiative during a visit to Luca + Danni, a Cranston-based jewelry manufacturer.
"For too many years, our state's leaders in government and business missed an opportunity to rebuild Rhode Island's manufacturing industry," said Governor Raimondo. "While the jobs may have left and the factories have closed, Rhode Islander's grit and determination is stronger than ever and we need to tap into it. The Rhode Island Manufacturing Initiative will give our manufacturing companies the tools they need to invest in their business and ensure that Rhode Island's workers have the skills they need to compete in the 21st Century advanced manufacturing economy."
"Rhode Island is an incredible place to start a business, raise a family and enjoy an amazing quality of life," said Fred Magnanimi, founder, CEO and creative director at Luca + Danni. "As a small business owner, I'm pleased to see the initiatives that Governor Raimondo is putting forth and we're excited to be one of the young companies helping to drive a renaissance in Rhode Island-based manufacturing."
The Rhode Island Manufacturing Initiative includes economic development incentives to encourage manufacturers to purchase new equipment, launch new product lines and hire new workers. Additionally, it expands successful training initiatives, including the Real Jobs RI program which is helping Electric Boat, among other companies, train hundreds of Rhode Islanders to fill maritime manufacturing jobs at Quonset.
"As a pioneer of the industrial revolution, manufacturing has fueled Rhode Island's growth for centuries," said Commerce Secretary Stefan Pryor. "The Governor's focus on manufacturing will help unlock the state's manufacturing potential and will further position the Ocean State as a manufacturing innovator."

Source:
