Public Statements
RI's Medicaid Program to Receive More Than $5 Million Under Settlement with Wyeth and Pfizer
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: April 27, 2016
Location: Unknown

Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin announced today that Rhode Island will share in a $784.6 million dollar settlement reached with Wyeth, a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer, Inc., to resolve allegations that Wyeth knowingly underpaid rebates owed under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program for the sales of Protonix Oral and Protonix IV between 2001 and 2006.
Under the settlement Wyeth and Pfizer agreed to pay $784.6 million to the United States and the States. More than $371 million of the settlement will go to states' Medicaid Programs, of which $5,463,754 will go to Rhode Island's Medicaid Program.
The settlement stems from two whistleblower lawsuits, U.S., al., ex rel. Kieff v. Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Civ. No. 03-cv-12366, and U.S., , et al., ex rel. William St. John LaCorte v. Wyeth, Civ. No. 06-cv-11724 which were filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The United States, 35 states and the District of Columbia intervened in the lawsuits.
"As the State continues to look for ways to contain increasing Medicaid costs while maintaining the same level of quality services to the populations it serves, this settlement adds significant non-taxpayer dollars to the bottom line. Our Medicaid Fraud Control Unit continues to play a critical role in holding these large pharmaceutical companies accountable for their actions that cost the State money and have consistently investigated them when they fail to play by the rules," said Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin.
Wyeth, Inc. was a Delaware corporation with its headquarters in Madison, New Jersey. Pfizer, Inc. is a Delaware corporation headquartered in New York, New York. Pfizer acquired Wyeth, Inc., in 2009, after the conduct alleged in the lawsuits. At all relevant times, Wyeth distributed, marketed and/or sold pharmaceutical products in the United States, including Protonix Oral and intravenous Protonix IV. Protonix Oral and Protonix IV are in a class of drugs called Proton Pump Inhibitors which inhibit the production of gastric acid.

Source:
