Public Statements
Raimondo Marks First Anniversary of Lean Government Initiative
Statement
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: March 29, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

As part of her continued efforts to make government more responsive to the people it serves, Governor Gina M. Raimondo convened business and state agency leaders today to mark the first anniversary of her initiative to foster innovation and promote a culture of continuous improvement across state agencies.
Last year, Raimondo announced her Lean Government Initiative with the goal of making it easier to do business in the state. As part of this effort, state agencies were tasked with examining their business practices and identifying areas for process improvement. Rhode Island business leaders on the cutting edge of service delivery were also tapped to share their expertise and serve as mentors for agency heads.
"Rhode Islanders deserve a government that moves at the speed of business," Governor Raimondo said. "We are making good progress in rethinking the way we work and in engaging the private sector to assist us in sharpening our business practices. Our focus continues to be on problem solving, implementing innovative solutions, and improving agency performance and outcomes."
More than 50 process reviews are underway or complete across the state - many for key government services, including professional licensing, vehicle title run, and good-standing certification. To date, more than 1,600 state employees have received "Lean" training and nearly 40 "Lean" ambassadors have been identified across state agencies.
The Lean Government Initiative is based on a proven methodology used by the manufacturing industry to eliminate waste, reduce wait and processing times, and realize greater efficiency and cost reductions. Today's event provided a forum to highlight results to date as well as review the Lean Mentorship Program. The program pairs private-sector leaders with Cabinet directors to assist them in adopting systems and processes that make it easier to do business in the state and provide a higher level of service to Rhode Islanders.
"With three years of Lean under our belt, DEM has made significant progress in transforming how we do business and improving customer service," DEM Director and Chair of Rhode Island's Lean Steering Committee Janet Coit said. "We've sharpened our focus, improved our relationship with customers, streamlined practices, and improved employee morale. The guidance and support I received from my mentor, Karl Wadensten, CEO of VIBCO Products, are significant factors in that success. Our dialogue continues to help me work through challenges, provide better support to staff, and inspire meaningful change in the way we do business - all while keeping my eye fixed on our mission."

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27186
