Public Statements
Raimondo Builds on Commitment to Expand Clean Energy Economy
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Feb. 16, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

As part of her continued efforts to act on climate change and promote growth of a clean energy economy in Rhode Island, Governor Gina M. Raimondo today joined 16 governors from across the United States to announce the Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future. This Accord represents a bipartisan commitment to supporting clean energy, advancing a modern electrical grid, and promoting clean transportation options.
"Rhode Island is committed to securing a clean and affordable energy future," said Raimondo. "Already, we've taken valuable steps forward to reduce our environmental impact and grow green jobs by supporting the construction of the nation's first offshore wind facility, investing in renewables, and encouraging clean modes of transportation. More work remains, and this accord acknowledges the challenges we face and our commitment to addressing them. I look forward to collaborating with my colleagues across the country to find innovative ways to grow our economy, tackle climate change, and shrink our carbon footprint."
The Governors' Accord provides participating members, who together represent 127 million Americans and vary considerably in their state's energy mix and policy portfolios, with a platform to learn from one another and collaborate on planning and policymaking. Signatories to the Accord commit to continuing to diversify energy generation in their state, expanding clean energy sources, modernizing infrastructure, and encouraging clean transportation options.
"American prosperity has always depended on embracing new ideas and technologies," the Accord states. "Embracing new energy solutions can provide more durable and resilient infrastructure, and enable economic growth, while protecting the health of our communities and natural resources. These improvements will help secure a safe and prosperous future for our country. We recognize that now is the time to embrace a bold vision of the nation's energy future. And to do so, states are once again poised to lead."

Source:
