Public Statements
Federal Funding Strengthens RhodeWorks Legislation
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Jan. 28, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo, House Speaker Nicholas A. Mattiello, and Senate President M. Teresa Paiva Weed this afternoon announced revised RhodeWorks legislation that takes into account new federal funding. The legislation puts people back to work repairing our crumbling infrastructure and provides the reliable, sustainable source of revenue necessary to rebuild our bridges, which are ranked the worst in the country.
With the addition of the new federal funding, the revised legislation cuts the amount of bonding in half (from $600 million to $300 million) and reduces interest costs by more than 65%. The legislation also strengthens the prohibition on tolling passenger vehicles by adding a condition that a vote of the people be required for any legislative changes to toll cars.
The legislation will be introduced this afternoon in the House by Majority Leader John DeSimone and in the Senate by Majority Leader Dominick Ruggerio.
The Governor, Speaker, and Senate President issued the following statements today:
Governor Gina M. Raimondo:
"I am grateful for the partnership of the Speaker and Senate President to take action and get this done. Rhode Island has the worst bridges in the country: we're ranked 50th out of 50 states. We can no longer afford the politics of procrastination; we need to invest more. This proposal will allow us to move quickly to repair our roads and bridges, and put Rhode Islanders back to work, without raising taxes on Rhode Island families and small businesses.
"Because of new federal funding, we were able to strengthen the proposal: we've lowered the maximum truck toll amount, decreased the number of gantries, and significantly reduced the state's interest payments. I look forward to continuing to work with the House and Senate to pass this legislation and grow our economy."

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/26716
