Public Statements
Delegation Announces Additional $2.4 Million to Reimburse RI for Snow Removal Costs
Press Release
By: Jim Langevin Sheldon Whitehouse Jack Reed Gina Raimondo David Cicilline
Date: Nov. 10, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

With winter approaching, Rhode Island's Congressional delegation today announced the state is receiving an additional $2,379,951.61 in federal reimbursement funds from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to help with the cleanup costs from last year's major snowstorm.
On April 3, 2015, President Obama granted Governor Gina M. Raimondo's request for a major disaster declaration due to a severe winter storm and snowstorm during the period of January 26-28, 2015.
U.S. Senators Jack Reed and Sheldon Whitehouse and U.S. Representatives Jim Langevin and David Cicilline worked together to ensure Rhode Island qualified for federal disaster assistance and received the maximum amount of funding for which it is eligible.
Earlier this year, joint federal, state, and municipal officials conducted Preliminary Damage Assessments (PDAs) to determine if the storm damage and costs were sufficient to justify a federal disaster declaration. Within days of the Governor's formal request, President Obama granted the state's disaster declaration, making Rhode Island eligible for Public Assistance. Prior to this award, a total of $4,054,864.80 in federal Public Assistance funding had been obligated to Rhode Island. This week's announcement that the Rhode Island Department of Transportation (RIDOT) will be reimbursed nearly $2.4 million brings the total to nearly $6.4 million.
"I am pleased FEMA is reimbursing the state for significant costs related to last year's snow and ice removal. Last year's snowfall exacted a heavy price on state and local budgets. This funding should help offset some of the costs for cities and towns as they make repairs and get prepared for the coming winter," said Senator Reed.
"As Rhode Islanders remember all too clearly, severe storms clobbered the Ocean State last winter. That snow and ice cost the state millions in cleanup and repairs to damaged infrastructure," said Senator Whitehouse. "I'm glad to see this federal funding coming to the DOT to help us recover from the serious financial strain those storms caused."
"Rhode Island suffered a particularly brutal winter, adding stress and wear to our roads, bridges and highways," said Congressman Jim Langevin. "This emergency allocation of more than $2.3 million will significantly help our state in improving infrastructure and recovering funds spent on unforeseen repairs necessitated by severe winter weather."
"As Rhode Island prepares for the start of winter, it's important that we have the resources we need to keep drivers and their passengers safe. I'm pleased that FEMA is providing more than $2.3 million in funding for snow and ice operations across our state," said Congressman David Cicilline. "It's important that we continue bringing federal funds back to Rhode Island, and I look forward to working further with my colleagues in the Congressional delegation to make this happen."
"We had a difficult winter this past year, approaching one of the snowiest seasons on record," said Governor Gina M. Raimondo. "As the snow continued to come down, we were constantly coordinating with state agencies to evaluate their budgets and ensure we had the supplies we needed to keep the roads safe for our families. We remained steadfast in our mission to ensure Rhode Island received any and all federal assistance available to help support our communities, and I want to recognize the state and federal emergency management agencies for working diligently together to make this grant possible. I am very thankful to our Congressional Delegation for their tireless work to bring these federal dollars to our state."

Source: http://www.reed.senate.gov/news/releases/delegation-announces-additional-24-million-to-reimburse-ri-for-snow-removal-costs
