Public Statements
Rhode Island Clean Energy Economy Grows Stronger
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Aug. 31, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today announced the findings of a new report highlighting the growing strength of the clean energy economy in Rhode Island. The 2015 Rhode Island Clean Energy Jobs Report states that this sector currently supports nearly 10,000 jobs and suggests that the state is projected to add approximately 1,600 new clean energy jobs over the next year. "Our mission is getting people back to work and preparing them for the jobs of the 21st century," Raimondo said. "This growth in the clean energy economy is encouraging and represents a sector on the move. By establishing the Rhode Island Infrastructure Bank, and investing in energy efficiency, we are creating an atmosphere that attracts businesses to our state. I look forward to continuing to work with our partners to continue this progress for years to come."
Highlights of the report include:
* The clean energy sector added 613 jobs in the last year;
* Approximately 40 percent of this sector began providing clean energy services in just the last five years; and
* Nearly 90 percent of the growth occurred with firms that employ fewer than 25 employees.
President Barack Obama recently unveiled the Clean Power Plan, which requires states to reduce carbon pollution from existing power plants - the nation's single largest source of the harmful emissions that are contributing to climate change. The anticipated growth of the clean energy sector can be an important factor for achieving the goals outlined in the plan and the continued recovery of the state's economy.
"Climate change impacts the environment, public health, and the economic strength of our communities," Raimondo said. "The Clean Power Plan directly addresses climate change and is expected to provide additional business opportunities for energy companies in Rhode Island."

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/25704
