Public Statements
Raimondo Presides Over Assumption of Command Ceremony
Press Release
By: Christopher Callahan Gina Raimondo
Date: Aug. 5, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today presided over a military and promotion ceremony for Colonel Christopher P. Callahan, naming him the 44th Adjutant General for the State of Rhode Island and the Commanding General of the Rhode Island National Guard.
"I know Brigadier General Callahan will use his over 25 years of experience, serving in multiple roles in the Rhode Island Army National Guard, to strengthen our service here in Rhode Island," Raimondo said. "His dedication and skills honed over the course of a long career are ones that will propel the Rhode Island National Guard into the future to help protect against 21st century threats."
Callahan succeeds Maj. Gen. Kevin R. McBride who retired in June after 35 years of service to our nation and state, overseeing multiple overseas unit deployments and responses to natural disasters within Rhode Island.
"I am honored to have been selected as the 44th Adjutant General of Rhode Island and am looking forward to leading our state's Soldiers and Airmen, as well as working with our state partners, and serving the citizens of the great state of Rhode Island," said Brigadier General Callahan.
Colonel Callahan was recommended by the Governor's Commanding General Search Committee, led by Lieutenant General Reginald Centracchio (Ret). The other members of the committee included: General Thomas Haynes (Ret), Admiral James Stavridis (Ret), Lieutenant Colonel Karen Pinch (Ret), Hospital Corpsman Chief Jonathan Rascoe (Ret), and Lieutenant Commander Camille Vella-Wilkinson (Ret).
Most recently, Callahan was the Commander of the 56th Troop Command at Camp Fogarty, where he led, trained, and supported operations of six unique military units representing 900 Soldiers. Previously, he was the Director of Operations for the Joint Force Headquarters at the Command Readiness Center. From 2006-2011, he served as the Director of Aviation and Safety at Quonset. He also served overseas in Balad, Iraq as a Battalion Commander within the 18th Aviation Brigade. Brigadier General Callahan holds a Master of Science in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College and a Bachelor of Science in Communications from Fitchburg State University in Massachusetts. He lives in North Kingstown, RI.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/25509
