Public Statements
Raimondo Moves to Tackle Opioid Crisis, Appoints Task Force
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Aug. 4, 2015
Location: Pawtucket, RI

As part of her efforts to build healthy communities and a vibrant economy, Governor Gina M. Raimondo today signed an Executive Order establishing the Governor's Overdose Prevention and Intervention Task Force. The Task Force will submit an action plan by November of this year that includes clear goals, objectives, and metrics to combat the addiction and overdose crisis.
"Addiction and opioid abuse are public health priorities that affect our families, communities, and economy, and it's time for a statewide strategy to address them," said Raimondo. "We are committed to working collaboratively with our dedicated partners across the state to tackle this issue and keep our families and communities safe. We must come together to make sure everyone has the opportunity to make it in Rhode Island."
Last year in Rhode Island, 239 people died of accidental drug overdose, and 94 people have already died this year, according to provisional data. Despite promising efforts by state and community partners to combat opioid abuse, Rhode Island has seen slow but steady increases in accidental drug overdose deaths, which rose three percent in the last year.
Raimondo appointed Department of Health Director Dr. Nicole Alexander-Scott and Department of Behavioral Healthcare, Developmental Disabilities and Hospitals Director Maria Montanaro as co-chairs of the task force, pointing to the need for additional collaboration between the state agencies to address this public health crisis. The task force will develop an action plan to address Rhode Island's overdose crisis and hold monthly public meetings.
"This problem is very real and, as the numbers indicate, it is not going away," said Alexander-Scott. "I am thankful to Governor Raimondo for putting together this task force, and I look forward to working as co-chair to address the disease of addiction, reduce overdose deaths, and keep more Rhode Islanders safe and healthy."

Source:
