Public Statements
Raimondo Moves to Protect the Environment, Puts People Back to Work
Press Release
By: V. Susan Sosnowski Teresa Tanzi Gina Raimondo
Date: July 22, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today marked the passage of legislation to protect our water supplies and put people back to work with a ceremonial bill signing at the Save the Bay Center. (H 5668 and S 369)
Many Rhode Island homes have outdated underground wastewater systems. These systems, often cesspools, are inefficient and ineffective and contribute to public health and environmental hazards. This legislation replaces outdated systems at the point of sale and improves neighborhoods and local infrastructure.
"This legislation not only protects our environment, but gets Rhode Islanders in the building trades back to work updating and modernizing our wastewater treatment systems," said Raimondo. "By setting us on a path to remove cesspools from yards and other property across the state, we will be taking important steps towards improving the water quality of Narragansett Bay, our beaches, and our drinking water."
This legislation was sponsored by Senator V. Susan Sosnowski (D-Dist. 37, South Kingstown, New Shoreham) and Representative Teresa A. Tanzi (D-Dist. 34, South Kingstown, Narragansett) and approved by the General Assembly.
"Cesspools are an outdated form of handling wastewater; for this reason, the state banned the installation of new cesspools over 40 years ago," said Sen. V. Susan Sosnowski (D-Dist. 37, South Kingstown, New Shoreham). "The main advantage of the using point-of-sale approach for cesspool phase-out is that the cost of replacing a cesspool can be taken into account in the selling price of the home and/or the financing of the home."
"With this new law, we are taking a crucial step toward reducing pollution and contamination of one of our state's most precious natural resources: our water," said Representative Teresa A. Tanzi (D-Dist. 34, South Kingstown, Narragansett). "We are the Ocean State, and because water never stops traveling, every community must be engaged in protecting our resources. I'm proud that this law will set the wheels in motion for the eventual removal of all remaining cesspools, and in doing so eliminating a threat to the health of our marine economy, our environment and the public."

Source:
