Public Statements
Raimondo Participates in Cybersecurity Summit Hosted by U.S. Naval War College
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: July 16, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo, joined by defense and intelligence experts, today participated in a Cybersecurity Summit at the U.S. Naval War College in Newport, RI. The discussion focused on the evolving threat of cyberattacks and the unique role Rhode Island can play supporting this growing industry.
"Defending against cyberattacks must be a key component of our state and our country's national security strategy," said Raimondo. "As we look to spark Rhode Island's economic comeback, we need to support innovative, cutting-edge sectors like cybersecurity. Our state has the potential to create jobs, protect Rhode Islanders, and lead the charge in this industry."
"Cybersecurity attacks are growing in number, but also increasing in sophistication, and coming from state and non-state actors - making cybersecurity one of the most complex national security issues our nation faces," said Scott DePasquale, Chairman of the Rhode Island Cybersecurity Commission and CEO of Providence-based Utilidata. "We must ensure that federal and state government, the private sector, law enforcement, and academia work together to strengthen the global market place. We are fortunate to have Governor Raimondo's leadership on this issue as well as a very strong Cybersecurity Commission with global reach and experience."
"I think it's great that the U.S. Naval War College was able to provide a forum for this important summit," said Rear Adm. P. Gardner Howe III, president, U.S. Naval War College. "Cybersecurity is such an important topic for the military, the government and the private sector; and the Commission will play a key role in addressing it holistically here in Rhode Island."
The Cybersecurity Summit included speakers from the national intelligence and counterintelligence community, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as well as private sector experts from RSA Security, National Grid, Fidelis and the Internet Security Alliance. Speakers presented an overview of evolving cyber threats, and the key areas in which government and the private sector must work together to prevent attacks.

Source:
