Public Statements
Raimondo Announces Next Adjutant General and Commanding General of the Rhode Island National Guard
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: July 2, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today announced Colonel Christopher P. Callahan as the next Adjutant General of Rhode Island, and Commanding General of the Rhode Island National Guard. Colonel Callahan is replacing Major General Kevin R. McBride, who retired in June after decades of dedicated service.
"Colonel Callahan has over 25 years of experience serving in multiple roles in the Rhode Island Army National Guard," said Raimondo. "He has a long career of proven, tested commitment to our state and this nation, and the skills we need to propel the Rhode Island National Guard into the future to help protect against 21st century threats. I am grateful to him and his family for their continued service, and thankful to the members of my search committee for identifying this outstanding leader for our state."
"Governor Raimondo has made an outstanding choice in appointing Colonel Chris Callahan to be the next Adjutant General of the Rhode Island National Guard," said U.S. Senator Jack Reed, the Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "Colonel Callahan has served with distinction for more than 25 years with the Rhode Island Guard, and his vast experience and unique skillset make him well-qualified to lead our men and women in uniform. From emergency response to military management, Colonel Callahan has a proven track record of achievement in both operational and strategic roles, and I look forward to his leadership of our National Guard and reserve units."
Colonel Callahan was recommended by the Governor's Commanding General Search Committee, led by Lieutenant General Reginald Centracchio (Ret). The other members of the committee included: General Thomas Haynes (Ret), Admiral James Stavridis (Ret), Lieutenant Colonel Karen Pinch (Ret), Hospital Corpsman Chief Jonathan Rascoe (Ret), and Lieutenant Commander Camille Vella-Wilkinson (Ret).
"I am honored to have been chosen to serve my state and this country in this role," said Colonel Callahan. "I look forward to working with the talented men and women of the Rhode Island National Guard to ready our team for swift responses to emergencies, strengthen our partnerships with civilian partners, build on our work to improve interagency collaboration, and protect Rhode Islanders from 21st century challenges like cyber-attacks."
Colonel Callahan is the Commander of the 56th Troop Command at Camp Fogarty, where he leads, trains, and supports operations of six unique military units representing 900 Soldiers. Previously, he was the Director of Operations for the Joint Force Headquarters at the Command Readiness Center. From 2006-2011, he served as the Director of Aviation and Safety at Quonset. He also served overseas in Balad, Iraq as a Battalion Commander within the 18th Aviation Brigade. Colonel Callahan holds a Master of Science in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College and a Bachelor of Science in Communications from Fitchburg State University in Massachusetts. He lives in North Kingstown, RI.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/25197
