Public Statements
Raimondo, Roberts, Rader Wallack Applaud Supreme Court Decision in King v. Burwell
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: June 25, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo, Secretary of the Executive Office of Health and Human Services Elizabeth Roberts, and HealthSource RI Director Anya Rader Wallack today issued the following statements on the Supreme Court's Decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act.
"Everyone deserves access to quality, affordable health care - and today's Supreme Court decision preserves the gains we've made across the country," said Governor Gina M. Raimondo. "In Rhode Island, we embraced the Affordable Care Act by creating our own state exchange. Last year, thousands of Rhode Islanders took advantage of almost $70 million in tax credits to gain the coverage they need to live healthy and productive lives. I applaud the Supreme Court for ensuring these benefits won't be taken away from Americans across the country."
"With partnership from the General Assembly, Rhode Island has established HealthSource RI to ensure all Rhode Islanders have access to affordable health coverage," said Secretary of the Executive Office of Health and Human Services Elizabeth Roberts. "We are proud to have a well-functioning exchange that meets the unique needs of our state's population. Today's Supreme Court decision guarantees that all Americans will have the same access to affordable healthcare that we had already secured in Rhode Island by taking quick action to establish a state level exchange. I agree with Chief Justice Roberts that the Affordable Care Act was designed to expand access to affordable health care and am proud to have worked with a diverse community of Rhode Islanders since 2011 to guarantee that here in our state."
"Today's ruling by the Supreme Court is a win for the millions of Americans who would have been affected by this decision," said HealthSource RI Director Anya Rader Wallack. "The loss of subsidies that have helped make health coverage affordable in those states using the federal exchange would likely be devastating. Fortunately, Rhode Island established its own state-based exchange, HealthSource RI-a move that, in the end, protected the state from this decision. This means the approximately 35,000 Rhode Islanders who have gained coverage through the exchange with the help of tax credits and cost sharing reductions, and others who may be eligible in the future, are secure in their coverage and remain unaffected by today's decision."

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/25139
