Public Statements
Recognizing Artistic Excellence in RI, State Gets $863,000 Boost from Federal NEA Grants
Press Release
By: Jack Reed Jim Langevin David Cicilline Gina Raimondo Sheldon Whitehouse
Date: May 5, 2015
Location: Unknown

In an effort to support community arts programs and enhance the state's creative and cultural assets, Rhode Island's Congressional delegation and Governor Gina M. Raimondo today announced the Rhode Island State Council on the Arts (RISCA), Community Musicworks (CMW), FirstWorks, the City of Providence, the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD), and Island Moving Company will share $862,800 in federal grants from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA). These federal grants will help support both new and established art projects, including workshops, free performances, exhibitions, and arts education programs.
RISCA will receive $727,100 in federal funds to support the arts and partnership agreement activities; while an additional $65,000 will go to Community Musicworks to support free music education and performance programs targeted to reach at-risk children and youth; $35,000 for FirstWorks to support their world-class performing arts and education programs; $20,000 for the City of Providence to support a collaborative project documenting and raising public awareness of the environmental, social, and economic history of Mashapaug Pond and its surrounding neighborhoods; $20,000 for RISD to support a professional development program for artists; and $10,000 for Island Moving Company to support the Great Friends Touring project.
"This federal funding recognizes the high quality, creative work happening here in Rhode Island. These NEA grants will help support local artists showcase their talents and give more people an opportunity to enjoy the arts, enriching our communities and paying cultural and economic dividends," said U.S. Senator Jack Reed, a member of the Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the NEA's budget. Reed, who succeeded Claiborne Pell (D-RI) -- who was a driving force in creating the NEA -- in the U.S. Senate, brought NEA Chairman Jane Chu to Rhode Island last summer.
"Rhode Island artists contribute to our economy and help make our state a better place to live," said U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse. "These federal dollars will enable Rhode Island artists to spread the word about Rhode Island history, get young people excited about music, extend the performing arts to communities throughout the state, and build new markets for their work. Congratulations to all the recipients, and thank you for the important contributions you make to life in Rhode Island."
"Rhode Island has a vibrant arts scene that is integral to our state's identity. When you think about branding Rhode Island as a destination, three components that cannot be overlooked are our beautiful coastline, exciting food economy and world-class arts and culture -- the same things that create a great quality of life for residents," said Congressman Jim Langevin, who recently formed an Arts Advisory Committee to collaborate with and support the arts community. "These federal grants will support jobs in the arts, strengthen arts education, engage the community and further enhance a culture that makes Rhode Island shine."
"Investing in the arts and humanities strengthens our local economy, creates exciting opportunities for young people to learn, and enriches our dynamic arts and cultural scene here in Rhode Island. I am delighted that the National Endowment for the Arts is providing $860,000 in Federal funding to support arts education and cultural programs that will continue to build on a strong foundation in our state," said Congressman David Cicilline.
Rhode Island's arts and creative communities are a significant economic driver for the Ocean State. According to RISCA, there are nearly 2,700 arts-related business in Rhode Island that employ over 12,620 creative workers. Rhode Island ranks third in the nation in the percentage of in-state jobs that are arts-related, exceeded only by New York and California.
"Rhode Island's strong creative community and renowned cultural institutions and arts programs make our state unique," said Governor Gina M. Raimondo. "We must protect and invest in the arts as part of our plan to spark our state's comeback. I am thrilled that the great work happening here will receive these important funds, which will help attract businesses and visitors to our state and put Rhode Islanders back to work."
And according to an analysis done by the NEA, each dollar invested directly through the agency is matched by up to $10 in additional investment, and more than 380 Rhode Island workers benefitted from NEA grants in the last fiscal year.
Randall Rosenbaum, Executive Director of the Rhode Island State Council on the Arts (RISCA), expressed his appreciation to the entire Rhode Island Congressional delegation for this important support. "The federal government's investment in the arts is vital to the work we do to ensure that the arts contribute to our state's economy, educational offerings and quality of life," said Rosenbaum. "Every dollar we receive from the National Endowment for the Arts goes to provide jobs for Rhode Island artists, which in turn provides employment to the thousands of people who benefit from a strong arts economy."
In this round of grants, NEA awarded over $74 million in federal funding to non-profit art and design organizations in all 50 states plus five U.S. jurisdictions through their "Art Works" and State and Regional Partnerships grant programs. The NEA grant funding decisions are made through a competitive, merit-based, and transparent and rigorous grants process.

Source: http://langevin.house.gov/press-release/recognizing-artistic-excellence-ri-state-gets-863000-boost-federal-nea-grants
