Public Statements
Raimondo Announces Municipal LED Streetlight Energy Efficiency Incentives
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today announced the availability of $525,000 in financial incentives for qualified municipalities seeking to reduce their energy consumption and costs through the installation of light-emitting diode (LED) streetlights and control technologies.
The "Lead by Example" Initiative supports the implementation of cost-effective energy efficiency investments throughout state and local government to save money on energy bills, lower greenhouse gas emissions, and demonstrate the feasibility and benefits that such clean energy solutions have for the larger marketplace. This municipal LED streetlight initiative will be administered by the Rhode Island Office of Energy Resources consistent with the state's 2014 Plan for the Allocation and Distribution of Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative Auction Proceeds.
"By investing in robust energy efficiency projects, cities and towns can significantly reduce their consumption and costs, and achieve budget savings," Governor Raimondo said. "Through these incentives, along with new and innovative programs, such as the proposed Rhode Island Infrastructure Bank, my administration is committed to reduce energy costs across government and put Rhode Islanders back to work."
"Rhode Island is a national leader in energy efficiency innovation and, in collaboration with our stakeholder partners, the Office of Energy Resources continues to find ways to reduce our state's energy footprint and achieve measurable consumer cost savings," said Commissioner Marion Gold. "This exciting incentive offering is consistent with our on-going efforts to target energy cost reductions throughout state and municipal governments, while advancing important clean energy and environmental goals."
Through this opportunity, municipalities that have acquired their lighting equipment and plan to retrofit their existing streetlights to more energy-efficient LED technologies can apply to receive $0.40 per watt reduced for qualified LED fixtures and $20 for each remotely-programmable dimming control installed (as applicable). A qualified municipality can receive a total award of up to $105,000 in addition to any available National Grid-administered incentives.

Source:
