Public Statements
Governor for a Day Joins Raimondo
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Raimondo today hosted her Women's History Month essay contest winner, Khatima Bulmer, a fifth grader from Newport's Thompson Middle School. Bulmer was sworn-in as Governor for a Day by Supreme Court Justice Maureen McKenna Goldberg during a morning State House ceremony.
"I think it's important that girls know they can be whatever they want to be if they work hard. Khatima had the opportunity to spend the day learning from strong female leaders across state and local government, the legislature, and the judiciary," Raimondo said. "As Governor for a Day, Khatima has shown young girls that the opportunities available to them in Rhode Island are endless. It was a pleasure to have Khatima help recognize the importance of Earth Day, break ground on a new nursing home facility, and plant a tree at her school."
Bulmer's schedule included: • Meeting with Senior Staff • Meeting with Members of the General Assembly, including Senators Erin Lynch, Senator Gayle Goldin, Representatives Anastasia Williams and Deborah Fellela for a round table discussion • Meeting with Secretary of State Nellie Gorbea • Attended an Earth Day event at Roger Williams Park, with Director Coit, Providence Mayor Elorza and North Providence Mayor Lombardi to announce Water Quality Protection and Restoration Grants.
While on the road, Bulmer called Woonsocket Mayor Lisa Baldelli-Hunt and Board of Education Chairwoman Barbara Cottam. They stopped for a quick lunch at Gregg's Restaurant in North Kingstown, before heading to the last two stops of the day - planting a tree outside of her school, Thompson Middle School, and attending a groundbreaking ceremony for St. Clare's of Newport with Senate President Paiva Weed.
When Bulmer was asked about the best part of her time as Governor, she said, "The tree planting at my school. I can see it every day that I'm there. I also enjoyed getting to meet female state leaders." She concluded by saying, "This has been really fun for me since I'm only 11 years old. Being 11 you can't be a real governor like Governor Raimondo, so it's really nice that I get to have this chance."
The Governor's staff used the hashtag #RIGovforDay on social media and invited attendees and the public to join the conversation.
U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker, U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Burwell, U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, U.S. Senators Jack Reed, Sheldon Whitehouse and Cory Booker, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, U.S. Representative Jim Langevin, and New Hampshire Governor Maggie Hassan are just a few of the leaders from around the country who joined the conversation.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/24649
