Public Statements
Raimondo Jobs Plan: Working with Employers to Fill 'Real Jobs' Now
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: April 13, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today announced a part of her jobs plan that puts employers' needs at the center of government workforce development actions to jumpstart the Rhode Island economy. The plan, Real Jobs RI, encourages strategic industry partnerships to help people build the skills they need to be successful, while connecting them to employers who have hiring opportunities now.
"We need to roll-up our sleeves to connect employers with the trained workforce they need right now to grow and expand," Governor Raimondo said. "Real Jobs RI will help spark our recovery, while positioning industry partnerships as the critical hub around which government, education, workforce development providers, nonprofits, and others revolve."
"It's essential that we focus on the specific needs of employers as we reshape Rhode Island's job training system. That's what the Real Jobs approach is all about," said Stefan Pryor, Rhode Island Secretary of Commerce. "Our economic development package is called the 'Ocean State WAVE.' It begins with the W: workforce development. Growing Rhode Island's economy starts with strengthening our workforce development system, meeting the training needs of our employers, and positioning Rhode Islanders for the jobs of today and tomorrow."
"The Department of Labor and Training needs to move at the speed of business to deliver to Rhode Island companies the workforce they need to grow. Real Jobs RI will move at the speed of business," said DLT Director Scott Jensen.
The announcement was held at Yushin America Inc., a global robotics manufacturer in Cranston that symbolizes both the challenges facing the state's economy as well as its enormous potential. As Yushin looks to expand it plant by 75 percent, it has 14 open positions and it is having difficulty finding trained, skilled workers.

Source:
