Public Statements
Raimondo Signs Executive Order to Eliminate Waste, Increase Efficiency in Government
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: April 9, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

As part of her jobs plan, Governor Gina M. Raimondo signed an executive order today, the "Lean Government Initiative", to foster innovation across state government and promote a culture of continuous improvement.
"Rhode Islanders deserve a government that moves at the speed of business," said Governor Raimondo. "My jobs plan calls for making government more responsive to the people it serves. Our Lean Initiative will empower state employees to implement innovative solutions, improve agency performance and outcomes, and focus on value-added activities."
The Governor's Lean Government Initiative will empower state employees to focus on procedural improvement and problem solving. Lean is a proven tool used by manufacturers to eliminate waste, get rid of unnecessary steps, reduce wait and processing times, and realize greater efficiency as well as cost reductions.
This Executive Order announces the Governor's intent for all executive branch departments to complete Lean process reviews and initial Lean training for state employees.
Raimondo's proposed budget also allocates $100,000 for the Office of Management and Budget to support this initiative and establish a mentorship program for Cabinet directors with private sector leaders with experience in Lean process improvement.
"This is a great day for Rhode Island. As a member of Commerce RI and the Lean Steering Committee, I am committed to helping this initiative succeed," said Karl Wadensten, CEO, President, VIBCO Products. "Over the last eight years, VIBCO has shared the lessons of our Lean Transformation with over 6,500 visitors to our factory. Lean is about helping to eliminate the things that prevent you from "working on the work" - hunting for things, repeating and passing mistakes forward, filling out unnecessary forms, moving things around, waiting for answers - those things get in the way and frustrate everyone. By fixing these issues, we have happier employees who provide better service and more value for all."
Governor Raimondo was joined at this announcement at VIBCO by members of her Cabinet, union leaders, and Lean Steering Committee.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/24534
