Public Statements
Meet Khatima, Rhode Island's First Governor for a Day
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: March 31, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Raimondo today announced the winner of her essay contest designed to celebrate Women's History Month. Rhode Island's first Governor for a Day is Khatima Bulmer, an 11 year old from Thompson Middle School in Newport who wrote about the meaningful role of public service and a more inclusive Rhode Island community.
"I'm thrilled that Khatima will be our Governor for a Day," said Governor Raimondo. "I received over 580 well-written, enthusiastic and creative letters from girls all across the State and I wish I could have picked them all. I created the Governor for a Day initiative as a way to encourage young girls to become leaders in their communities and I was so pleased to read about all of their great ideas for Rhode Island's future. I loved that Khatima spoke about the importance of celebrating Women's History Month and mentioned many public service initiatives she wanted to become involved with if she were chosen as Governor for a Day."
Following the Governor's announcement, Khatima read her essay and took questions from the media. She will return at a later date for her full "term" as Governor for a Day.
Khatima wrote in her essay that she wanted to be Rhode Island's Governor for a Day because, "It would be a once in a lifetime opportunity to spend a day meeting and speaking with other leaders across the state government!" She also reflecting on her desire to make people more welcoming of our differences, "You know how some people look at you and say 'You can't do this because you're a girl!' or 'You can't do this because you're dark skinned!' Annoying, right?...Being a biracial kid myself, I know that many kids and adults judge people by what they look like instead of their character, I would make RI a more multicultural and friendly place for everyone."
"I am also extremely proud of the other four finalists who all wrote stellar essays," said Governor Raimondo. "Ibiolatiwa Akomolafe of Pawtucket, Emma Boucher of Cranston, Celeste Humphrey of Little Compton, and Michaela Washburn of Scituate spoke with intelligence beyond their years on how to improve Rhode Island. I know that their parents and communities are also very proud of them."

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/24467
