Public Statements
Raimondo Restores the Rhode Island Commission on Women with Twelve New Appointees
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: March 31, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today named twelve appointments to revive the long-vacant Rhode Island Commission on Women.
"We must stand behind our families and support one of our greatest and most underutilized resources - women," said Governor Raimondo. "This Women's History Month, I'm thrilled to take the opportunity to restore the Rhode Island Commission on Women. These new members will play an important role in promoting equity, strengthening our economy, and showing the leaders of tomorrow they can do anything they set their mind to."
The Governor also announced she is tasking the Commission with creating an Equal Pay Certification Status, which will be awarded to Rhode Island businesses that show a commitment to equal pay practices. This announcement builds off of last month's launch of the Pay Equity Tip Line, a telephone line allowing women and men to report employers who violate the Rhode Island law that bans gender-based wage discrimination. The Commission's first meeting will be in April.
"Ensuring paycheck fairness will boost our local businesses by putting money directly in the pockets of working families, whether it's to buy an extra bag of groceries or new school supplies," added Raimondo. "Not only will this inject more money into our economy, pay equity attracts first-rate employees and promotes a more productive workforce."
"I'm inspired by Governor Raimondo's proactive approach to ensuring gender equality, and it is an honor to be chosen chair of Rhode Island's Commission on Women," said Rebecca Webber, Chair. "As the first woman governor, and as a mom, Governor Raimondo is showing strong leadership on the need to continue to push for equity to improve individual opportunities, local communities, and the state's economy. I am excited to be a part of the Governor's efforts, beginning with closing the gender pay gap through Equal Pay Certification Status. I have full confidence that the Commission will take a hands-on, energetic, and productive approach to achieving our goals."

Source:
