Public Statements
Raimondo Calls on General Assembly to Pass 38 Studios Transparency Legislation
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: June 8, 2017
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo called upon the General Assembly to take swift action and pass Representative Charlene Lima and Senator Frank Lombardi's bills that would compel the release of non-grand jury documents from the 38 Studios investigation. Governor Raimondo filed suit to allow for the release of the grand jury documents. Though the court denied the Governor's request, Governor Raimondo also announced today that she intends to appeal that ruling to the Rhode Island Supreme Court.
"I was against 38 Studios from the very beginning and hold firm that Rhode Islanders deserve to know what happened. I urge the General Assembly to take swift action and send me legislation that will compel the release of all non-grand jury documents from the 38 Studios investigation. I will sign it as soon as it reaches my desk," said Governor Raimondo. "As Governor, I've pushed for the release of hundreds of thousands of pages of documents and encouraged the Rhode Island State Police to release documents in their possession unrelated to the grand jury. I've gone to court to release grand jury documents and will appeal the Court's decision to keep those records sealed."
The Governor has been the state's leading proponent for the release of all documents related to disastrous deal with Curt Schilling's failed company. Starting in 2015, Governor Raimondo oversaw the release of hundreds of thousands of pages of documents from the civil case and earlier this year, after the criminal case was closed, she urged the Rhode Island State Police and the Attorney General's Office to release non-grand jury documents in their possession. State Police released the majority of those documents in March and continue to make additional documents available as they are reviewed.
Over the last three years, the Commerce Corporation has reached settlements with various parties involved with 38 Studios. In all, the State has achieved more than $60 million in settlements.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/30612
