Public Statements
Fostering Innovation: Governor Raimondo's FY 2016 Budget Recommendation
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: March 12, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

"We must reinvigorate Rhode Island and state government with fresh ideas and new ways of doing things, so that we can enhance accountability and get better results for our citizens." - Governor Gina M. Raimondo
With the state facing structural deficits, Rhode Island must transform state and municipal government to be more innovative and responsive to the needs of taxpayers. The state needs to streamline the way it delivers services to its customers, maximizing the use of technology, shared services, and intergovernmental collaboration whenever possible.
Invest in Information Technology
Invest in information technology to improve state operations, promote data-driven decision-making and enhance the transparency and accountability of government.
Implement IT-related improvements, including:
A new system to prevent and control waste, fraud, and abuse in the Medicaid payment process.
A new system to streamline the third-party reporting process for services provided to individuals with developmental disabilities.
Offsite data access and entry by designated Department of Children, Youth and Families staff.
Improve Efficiency in Government
Modernize antiquated personnel rules for state employees, and achieve personnel savings for taxpayers.
Improve business practices, purchasing and operations:
The Office of Energy Resources (OER) will establish a competitive procurement program for the state's electricity supply. OER expects that additional savings will be attained through energy efficiency initiatives.
The Division of Purchases will review recent and current goods and services contracts.
The Office of Management and Budget will support Lean process improvement projects.
The Department of Behavioral Healthcare, Developmental Disabilities and Hospitals will participate in the Department of Corrections' food purchasing and waste reduction efforts.
The Department of Revenue will hire part-time employees to staff DMV locations at times of peak volumes to increase efficiency and reduce average wait times.
Reorganize State Government
Reorganize several government functions to improve efficiency and encourage collaboration among programs with similar goals.
Merge functions of the Rhode Island Higher Education Assistance Authority (RIHEAA) with the Office of Post-Secondary Commissioner; Move College Bound Fund to Treasury.
Establish an Office of Advocacy within EOHHS charged with advocating for and protecting the rights of individuals.
Consolidate 25 boards overseeing non-prescribing professionals.
Lay the Foundation to Reinvent Medicaid
Implement reform so Medicaid delivers better care - without harming the most vulnerable among us - and so the system will be sustainable for taxpayers.
Save $90M in Medicaid spending, with the guiding principles of improving quality, affordability, and efficiency; cracking down on fraud and abuse, and fostering innovation and transparency.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/24282
