Public Statements
Governor Appoints Three Members to Governor's Workforce Board
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today announced her intent to nominate three new members to the Governor's Workforce Board. Raimondo submitted the following names for consideration to the Rhode Island State Senate for confirmation:
Suzanna "Suzy" Alba of Smithfield (Representative of Public Institution of Higher Education)
Nina Pande of Providence (Employer Representative)
Susan Rittscher of Providence (Employer Representative)
"To stimulate Rhode Island's economy, we need a skilled workforce equipped with the tools they need to succeed in the 21st century," said Raimondo. "I am grateful to Suzy, Nina, and Susan for their commitment to bring their diverse experience to the Board in support of our state's workforce development. I also want to thank the outgoing members - Jim Purcell, Robert Nangle, Juana Horton and Sharon Moylan - for their service to our state and our workforce."
The Governor's Workforce Board is made up of 21 members representing business, labor, education, community, and government who establish workforce development policy and plans and also allocate state Job Development Funds. They allocate funding into several categories, including: funds for employers through incumbent worker training grants and industry partnership support; funds for youth centers and summer youth employment; funds for work readiness, work experience, occupational skills training, and hiring incentives for unemployed and under-employed workers; and funds to increase workforce system capacity and integration.
"I am thrilled to begin my service on the Governor's Workforce Board and to work alongside Governor Raimondo and fellow board members to ensure that we continue to develop opportunities for the underemployed and unemployed in our state," said Suzy Alba. "I am particularly excited to help strengthen the role higher education can play in our state's workforce development initiatives and preparing the workforce of the future. As a first-generation graduate of Rhode Island College, I understand the opportunities and value that public higher education can provide."
"I am thrilled about this opportunity to help make sure Rhode Island's current and future workers are equipped with the skills they need to succeed in the workplace," said Nina Pande. "I look forward to working with Governor Raimondo, the other members of the Board, and employers across the state to strengthen our workforce development."
"Every day, I focus on providing education, training, and technical assistance for entrepreneurs and businesses, and I know how important these skills are for success," said Susan Rittscher. "This is an exciting opportunity to strengthen workforce development across Rhode Island, and I am excited to work with the Governor and the other members of the Board."
Suzanna "Suzy" Alba Suzy Alba is the Director of Alumni Affairs and College Relations at Rhode Island College, where she also serves as an Adjunct Professor in the Communication Department. Additionally, Alba is the Vice President of the Smithfield Town Council. Previously, she was an Assistant Director of Annual Giving in the Office of Advancement at Brown University. Alba also served as an AmeriCorps member after college. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in Communications and Public Relations from Rhode Island College, and was a recipient of the Emerging Leader Award from Leadership Rhode Island.
Nina Pande Nina Pande has over 16 years of nonprofit management experience. She currently serves as the Executive Director of Federal Hill House, the Founder and Director of Community Links Providence, and the Finance Chair and Secretary for the Providence School Board. Pande holds a Certificate in Nonprofit Management from Harvard University, a Master of Social Work from New York University, and a Bachelor in Social Work from Colorado State University. She also attended Bryant University's Institute of Public Leadership.
Susan Rittscher Susan Rittscher is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Center for Women and Enterprise, one of the country's largest business and entrepreneur centers. The agency she oversees leads 6,000 women and men annually through education, training, technical assistance and consulting for entrepreneurs and business enterprises. Previously, Rittscher was the National Director of Executive and Volunteer Development at the YMCA of the USA in Chicago, and the President and Chief Executive Officer of the YMCA of Greater Providence. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in Social Welfare from California State University and a Master's in Human Services Leadership and Management from Springfield College.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/24215
