Public Statements
Raimondo Nominates Dr. Alexander-Scott for Director of the Department of Health
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: March 3, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today announced her intent to nominate Dr. Nicole Alexander-Scott as the next Director of the Department of Health. Raimondo will submit Dr. Alexander-Scott's name for consideration to the Rhode Island State Senate for confirmation.
"Healthy Rhode Islanders will help grow a healthy economy," said Raimondo. "My top priority is expanding opportunity for everyone. If we are going to create a place where people want to live and work, and where businesses want to create jobs, we must have a healthy workforce and access to high-quality, low-cost care. I want to thank Dr. Alexander-Scott for her commitment to serving our state as part of our health and human services team."
Dr. Alexander-Scott will succeed Dr. Michael Fine, who announced his resignation last week. She plans to begin serving in this role on April 1, 2015.
"Dr. Alexander-Scott brings tremendous experience from her work at Rhode Island Hospital, the Department of Health, and Brown University," said Secretary of the Executive Office of Health and Human Services Elizabeth Roberts. "She was a tremendous asset to our state during the recent meningitis outbreak at Providence College, and will be a great addition to our team as we work to provide all Rhode Islanders with access to the information and care they need to be healthy."
Dr. Nicole Alexander-Scott is board certified in Pediatrics, Internal Medicine, Pediatric Infectious Diseases, and Adult Infectious Diseases. She is Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, serving in the Divisions of Pediatric and Adult Infectious Diseases at the affiliated hospitals in Rhode Island. She also serves as a Consultant Medical Director for the Office of HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and TB at the Rhode Island Department of Health in the Division of Infectious Diseases and Epidemiology.
"I've had the opportunity to work with Dr. Alexander-Scott, and I believe she is the best of the best," said Dr. Michael Fine, the current Director of the Department of Health. "The Governor has made an excellent choice for our state, and I look forward to working closely with Dr. Alexander-Scott over the coming weeks to ensure a smooth transition."
"It is a privilege to have this opportunity to work with so many talented health care and public health professionals to strengthen our care system across the state," said Dr. Alexander-Scott. "My passion is advancing public health across all ages, economic backgrounds and communities. I am committed to helping to ensure all Rhode Islanders receive the kind of care they deserve."
Dr. Alexander-Scott received her Bachelor of Science degree from Cornell University and her Doctor of Medicine degree from SUNY Upstate Medical University at Syracuse. She also holds a Master of Public Health degree from Brown University. Dr. Alexander-Scott resides in Providence.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/24198
