Public Statements
Raimondo Appoints Two Members to the Rhode Island Ethics Commission
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Feb. 20, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today named Sister Therese Antone and Dr. Tim Murphy to the Rhode Island Ethics Commission.
"My first Executive Order as Governor called for the highest standards of integrity and ethical conduct in government," said Raimondo. "By appointing these members to the Rhode Island Ethics Commission, I am continuing my commitment to accountability for those who serve in government in Rhode Island. Sister Therese Antone and Dr. Tim Murphy are committed to lending their time and expertise to further this Administration's priority of fostering integrity across government."
"I am very pleased to serve the people of Rhode Island in this capacity and I look forward to working with other members of the Commission in maintaining high standards of conduct for our public officials," said Sister Therese Antone.
"I am grateful to Governor Raimondo for her confidence in me," said Dr. Tim Murphy. "I am enthusiastic to serve on the Ethics Commission and help promote honest government in Rhode Island as the voters intended when it was established in 1985."
The Rhode Island Ethics Commission is a constitutionally mandated body empowered to adopt, enforce and administer the Code of Ethics. The Code sets forth standards of conduct for all public officials and employees across state and local government. The Commission educates and advises public officials and employees about the standards of conduct set out in the Code of Ethics.
Sister Therese Antone of Newport Sister Therese Antone was appointed chancellor of Salve Regina University in July 2009 after serving as president from 1994-2009. Her career has included teaching at all levels. Sister Therese currently serves on the boards of BankNewport and Davis Education Foundation, among many others. In addition to many other honors and awards, Sister Therese was the 1998 recipient of the National Conference Humanitarian Award, the 1998 John E. Fogarty Achievement Award and the Mercy Higher Education Leadership Award.
Sister Therese holds a bachelor's degree from Salve Regina, a master's degree in mathematics from Villanova University and a doctorate in education with an emphasis in administration, planning and social policy from Harvard University. She also completed the senior executive program at MIT's Sloan School of Management.
Dr. Tim Murphy of Providence Dr. Tim Murphy is the founder and medical director of the Vascular Disease Research Center at Rhode Island Hospital and a professor of diagnostic imaging at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Dr. Murphy has over 150 published books, book chapters, original manuscripts, and abstracts, and has given over 150 invited presentations both nationally and internationally.
Dr. Murphy completed the six-year Medical Education Program at Boston University in 1987, and has been on staff at Rhode Island Hospital since 1993. Dr. Murphy helped secure over $35 million in total National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding for clinical trials in vascular disease.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/24101
