Public Statements
Raimondo Takes Steps to Prioritize Workforce Development, Build Skills for 21st Century Economy
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Feb. 19, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo named 15 members to the Rhode Island Career and Technical Board of Trustees and nine members to the Rhode Island Career and Technical Education (CTE) Trust.
These two entities were created last legislative session to concentrate on improving career and technical education in the state. The Board of Trustees and the CTE Trust will work closely with local businesses to identify employment opportunities and promote workforce development.
"A highly-skilled workforce will help attract companies, stimulate our economy, and expand opportunity for people to make it in Rhode Island," said Raimondo. "We need to strengthen our career and technical education system to equip our students with the skills they need to compete in the 21st century economy. I'm thankful to the members of the Board of Trustees and the CTE Trust for lending their diverse experience and backgrounds from across the public and private sectors to strengthen our state's workforce development."
The Board of Trustees will maintain ongoing connections with higher education systems and local businesses and offer their advice to the Board of Education on career and technical education. The Governor has named the following members to the Board of Trustees:
Bob Baldwin of Coventry, RB Homes and Chair of the R.I. Builders Workforce Development & Training Committee
Bill Bryan of West Greenwich, Senior Project Executive at Gilbane
Tim Byrne of Tiverton, Business Manager at Plumbers & Pipefitters 51
Shannon Carroll of Providence, President & CEO of Genesis Center
Victoria Gailliard-Garrick of West Warwick, Director of Davies
Commissioner Deborah Gist
Michael Grey of Providence, Regional Vice President of Sodexo
Raymond Johnson of Johnston, Construction Instructor at New England Laborers/Cranston Public Schools Construction Career Academy
Al Lubrano of Barrington, President of Materion Technical Materials
Bill McCourt of Lincoln, Executive Director of RI Manufacturers Association
Jeannine Nota-Masse of Cranston, Assistant Superintendent of Cranston Public Schools
Peter Petrarca of Lincoln, Partner at Petrarca & Petrarca Law Offices and Corporate Counsel at Providence Auto Body
Commerce Secretary Stefan Pryor
Commissioner Jim Purcell
Kathie Shields of Pawtucket, Executive Director of Tech Collective
The CTE Trust is a not-for-profit corporation that will develop partnerships with various employers to create internships and other opportunities for student learning, provide advisory assistance to the Board of Trustees, and raise funds for the organization. The Governor has named the following members to the CTE Trust:
Lisa Bisaccia of Providence, SVP & Chief Human Resources Officer at CVS Health
Maura Dunn of Mystic, VP of HR & Administration for General Dynamics Electric Boat
Stephanie Federico of Providence, Attorney at Anthony DeSisto Law Associates
Brenna Force of Cumberland, Litigation Associate at Adler Pollock & Sheehan P.C.
John Gregory of Slatersville, President/CEO of the Northern RI Chamber of Commerce
Bill McCourt of Lincoln, Executive Director of RI Manufacturers Association *
Commerce Secretary Stefan Pryor
David Rampone of Lincoln, President of Hart Engineering
Martin Trueb of East Greenwich, Senior Vice President & Treasurer at Hasbro

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/24092
