Public Statements
Raimondo Announces Leadership Changes at RIDOT
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Feb. 17, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today announced that Michael P. Lewis, the Director of the Rhode Island Department of Transportation (RIDOT), will resign from his post effective February 27, 2015. She also announced new leadership changes at RIDOT to ensure a smooth transition.
"Director Lewis let me know he is ready to explore new opportunities after more than six years of service to Rhode Island," said Raimondo. "I am incredibly grateful to Mike for his professionalism, dedication, and service to the citizens of Rhode Island -- especially during our recent winter weather challenges. Mike has graciously agreed to continue to serve as Director through the end of the month."
"On a personal note, I am particularly appreciative of Mike's invaluable leadership and counsel during the January Blizzard and the many snowstorms that have since followed," added Governor Raimondo. "I know his role during storms often leads to many days and nights away from home, and I am grateful for his generous commitment to our state."
In preparation for Director Lewis' departure, the Governor announced today she intends to appoint Peter Alviti Jr. to the position of Director for the Department of Transportation. The Governor will submit his name for consideration next week when the Rhode Island State Senate returns from break.
"Building and investing in a 21st century infrastructure puts Rhode Islanders to work in construction jobs, and is a key part of attracting companies to invest here and encouraging our existing businesses to expand and grow," said Raimondo. "In this role, Peter will build on the groundwork Mike has laid to help improve our state's roads and bridges. He is committed to enhancing the organization's mission of delivering a safe, modern, and efficient transportation network for the state."
"DOT connects our state from Woonsocket to Westerly," Alviti said. "I look forward to enacting the Governor's transportation agenda, which will position our state for growth and create jobs."
The Governor also announced that Peter Garino has started as a Deputy Director of RIDOT.
"Peter joins us from New Jersey, where he brings years of experience with NJ TRANSIT, the third largest transit agency in the nation," said Raimondo. "In this role, he will work closely with Mike and help ensure a smooth transition."
As the Governor works to make state government more innovative, this new leadership team at RIDOT will be focused on finding ways to deliver projects more quickly and at a lower cost. This may include embracing alternate innovative methods for delivering projects, such as having the same company both design and build a project (Design-Build) or having a construction manager commit to a guaranteed project timeline and price (Construction-Manager-At-Risk).
Peter Alviti Jr., the Governor's nominee for Director of the Department of Transportation Peter Alviti Jr. served as the Director of Public Works for the City of Cranston, managing Highway Building Vehicle and Sewer Maintenance as well as the Water, Treatment Plant and Engineering Divisions. Most recently, he was the Director of Programs for the Laborers International Union of North America - New England Laborers' Health and Safety Fund. Alviti holds a Bachelor of Science in Construction Technology from Roger Williams University and a Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering from Northeastern University. He resides in Warwick.
Peter Garino, Deputy Director of the Department of Transportation Peter Garino served at the Chief of Capital Programming and Administration for the NJ TRANSIT from 2003 to 2015. NJ TRANSIT is the third largest transit agency in the nation. In this role, Garino oversaw over 400 projects valued at over $25 billion. Garino holds a Bachelor of Science from Georgetown University. He resides in Providence.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/24077
