Public Statements
Raimondo Appoints Sidney "Macky" McCleary Director of Department of Business Regulation
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Jan. 21, 2015
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina Raimondo today announced her intention to nominate Sidney "Macky" McCleary as the director of the Department of Business Regulations (DBR). Raimondo will submit McCleary's name for consideration to the Rhode Island State Senate for confirmation this month.
"In order to create jobs and opportunities for Rhode Island families, we have to attract companies to invest here, and encourage our existing businesses - large and small - to expand and grow," Governor Raimondo said. "One of the ways to do that is making our state more business friendly. Macky will leverage his experience in the public and private sectors to streamline regulations while assuring top-quality customer service."
As DBR director, McCleary will oversee the implementation of state laws mandating the regulation and licensing of designated businesses, professions and occupations among other activities.
"Creating opportunities for Rhode Islanders starts with building a strong economy," said Stefan Pryor, Commerce Secretary nominee. "Macky has the best mix of experience and commitment to public service to help our Commerce team achieve results for our businesses and families."
Most recently, McCleary worked for the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection as the Deputy Commissioner of Environmental Quality. McCleary was a leader in the agency's transformation. In that role, he has expanded the agency's investment in LEAN transformation and continual process improvement. During his tenure, the agency has made marked improvements in the speed, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and predictability of its permitting processes. Improving the regulatory experience for affected businesses and municipalities as well as employees and other stakeholders.
"We have a fantastic opportunity to find the nexus between streamlining our regulatory efforts while attracting entrepreneurs and supporting our existing businesses and professionals," McCleary said. "We can strike the correct balance that creates opportunities for all Rhode Islanders."
McCleary holds a Bachelor of Arts from Yale College and a Master's degree from Yale School of Architecture.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/23846
