Public Statements
Governor Raimondo Announces 5th Consecutive Record Breaking Year for Auto-Imports at Quonset's Port of Davisville
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Jan. 21, 2015
Location: Quonset, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo announced today that the Port of Davisville at Quonset Business Park achieved its fifth consecutive record breaking year for automobiles imported by ship in 2014. More than 178,000 automobiles were imported at the Port last year, with another 34,000 autos arriving by rail and 3,000 coming by truck. Vehicles arriving at the Port of Davisville are processed, finished and distributed across the country by North Atlantic Distribution, Inc. (NORAD), a long-time Quonset tenant.
"This milestone is a tremendous example of the private sector working together with the state to make us a leader on the global stage," Governor Raimondo said. "The priorities of my administration are to attract more entrepreneurs and to support our existing business, all while fostering innovation in government. The Port of Davisville has become one of North America's leading auto importers because we've modernized its infrastructure and marketed our strengths and because NORAD has grown to more than 300 people since it began operations here more than 25 years ago."
Today's figures reflect an increase of close to 5,000 more automobiles arriving, compared to the 2013 record-breaking numbers. The Port of Davisville has been one of the Top Ten auto-importers in North America for the past several years. The Port is a key component of the Quonset Business Park, which is already considered one of the premiere business parks in New England and one of the largest in the Northeast. Quonset is now home to almost 200 companies, employing more than 10,000 people in full-time and part-time jobs across several industries.
"We are thrilled to call the Port of Davisville NORAD's home," said Michael Miranda, president and CEO of NORAD. "The state and our federal leaders have done an incredible job in positioning the Port for more business, and we intend to capitalize on those efforts in the months and years ahead."

Source:
