Public Statements
Raimondo's Statement on the First Day of HSRI Open Enrollment
Statement
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Nov. 2, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo today released the following statement on the anticipated impact of HealthSource RI (HSRI)'s open enrollment period on customer service at the Department of Human Services (DHS) field offices and HSRI Contact Center.
"The beginning of the month is always extremely busy at the DHS field offices, because it's when benefits for most human services programs are delivered. This month, we expect HSRI's open enrollment to drive even higher than usual call volumes and foot traffic, which may lead to longer wait times for many of our clients.
"Time is valuable and in short supply for many of our DHS customers. And all Rhode Islanders deserve high-quality, efficient customer service every day of the month. That's why my team has worked hard to prepare for a busier November in our field offices and over the phones. At DHS, we've extended hours at the Woonsocket and Providence field offices, improved the management of our office lobbies to better serve our customers, and put an escalation team in place to help customers in urgent need get services as quickly as possible. And at HSRI, we've added staff, phone lines and hours at our Contact Center throughout open enrollment.
"The first week of October came with some challenges, as our new health and human services eligibility system completed its first payment cycle for many programs. My team has also worked hard to prepare for any additional issues that may come up this month. If issues emerge, contingency plans are in place to resolve them quickly.
"I appreciate Rhode Islanders' patience during this time, and am committed to holding my team accountable for improving the services we provide to all of our customers as we continue to implement this new system."
As always, Rhode Islanders in need of urgent medical attention should seek medical care.

Source:
