Public Statements
Issue Position: The Environment
Issue Position
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Climate change is poised to impact Rhode Island in a big way. With more than 400 miles of coastline, looming rises in sea levels could be devastating to our cities and towns. Our tourism and fishing industries may face beaches washed away by erosion, and fish stocks diminished by changing sea temperatures. Our farms, a bright spot in our economy, may soon be dealing with increased droughts, more severe storms, and more extreme seasons. All of these things will put stress on our infrastructure and our government services. We must do everything we can now to adapt to an environment transformed by climate change, and mitigate the impact that it will have on our state.
We also have to recognize that better protecting the environment is not only the right thing to do, it is also an economic driver. By better implementing a statewide strategy we can create good green jobs that get people back to work.
Fortunately, our state has already made great strides. Between regional initiatives designed to limit emissions, and state programs that help businesses and homeowners upgrade to energy-efficient technologies, we are already a national leader in energy policy. But there is room for growth: we have an opportunity to ramp up our efforts to mitigate climate change and adapt to its impact, while simultaneously making Rhode Island a model for the entire country when it comes to renewable energy usage and climate change preparedness.
That's why I'm proposing the creation of a Rhode Island Green Bank and Clean Energy Finance Authority. The bank will encourage the large-scale adoption of clean energy and energy efficiency solutions by creating a dependable, accessible source of funding and capital for all Rhode Islanders. Government funds alone will likely not be enough to address the challenge of climate change. The Green Bank will allow the state to integrate private capital into the mix of existing state funds to ramp up the deployment of clean energy technologies, while at the same time helping to create green jobs.
Here's how it will work:

Source:
