Public Statements
Issue Position: K-12 Education
Issue Position
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

No plan to create jobs is complete without a plan for improving education. Without a quality, educated workforce, Rhode Island will never become a destination for middle-­class jobs, nor will we be able to provide our students with the tools they'll need to earn a post-­secondary degree or compete in a global economy.
Job opportunities are expanding in such areas as advanced manufacturing, health care and what are known as the "STEAM" fields -- science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics -- and all of these demand workers with post-­secondary education. Higher-­paying jobs require not only strong literacy and numeracy skills, but also problem-­solving, digital literacy, creativity and collaboration skills. And it's estimated that by 2018, 61 percent of all jobs in Rhode Island will require some level of education beyond high school.
Yet despite the need for new skills and new methods of teaching, Rhode Island's approach to education is stuck in the past. Today's classrooms look just like they did 50 years ago: rows of desks facing a teacher. We're balancing budgets by trimming critical extracurricular activities that teach our students the skills they need to thrive as adults. And we're not doing a good enough job of listening to the educators and principals on the front lines. The issues facing students are more complex than ever. Schools today offer a range of assistance beyond just education: they're sources of behavior health treatment and social services.
To make matters worse, school buildings are falling apart. The majority were built more than 50 years ago. Students are attending schools where roofs are collapsing and teachers are falling ill with respiratory problems.
At the same time, Rhode Island spends nearly as much money per student as neighboring Massachusetts, without getting the same results. For the same amount of money per pupil, their students have among the highest math and reading scores in the country. Spending is just as high -- but scores are not.
Some of the best ideas for education come from listening to our teachers.
Rhode Island has taken strides in raising its educational standards. Now it's time to equip educators and schools with the support and tools they need to meet them. Gina's priorities as governor will be:
Setting standards, curriculum and assessments that prepare students with the skills they'll need for college and their career;
Treating teachers as professionals, providing them with the resources and support they need to be successful, and most importantly, listening to their ideas and incorporating their feedback into educational priorities;
Investing in extracurricular and enrichment opportunities, which are essential to a quality education;
Giving more autonomy to teachers and principals, who know the needs of their students better than anyone else; and
Rebuilding crumbling schools and classrooms, and improving them with access to technology and personalized learning tools like tablets and laptops.
Rhode Island is filled with amazing teachers, dedicated parents and experienced education professionals. It's time for Rhode Islanders to have access to a high-­quality education to position our state to succeed for decades to come.

Source: http://www.ginaraimondo.com/issues/education-equals-economic-success
