Public Statements
Issue Position: Higher Education
Issue Position
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Higher Education: A Pathway to Opportunity
College Scholarship Fund
Earning a post-secondary degree or credential is no longer just a pathway to opportunity for a select few; it is an essential component of job growth in the future economy. Over the next 10 years, employment in jobs requiring education beyond a high school diploma will grow more rapidly than employment in jobs that do not. Of the 30 fastest-growing occupations, more than half require postsecondary education.
Help Wanted, a report by the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce analyzing occupation data and workforce trends, projects that approximately 61 percent of Rhode Island's jobs will require postsecondary education by 2018. Between now and 2018, Rhode Island will need to fill 153,000 vacancies resulting from job creation, worker retirements and other factors. Of these job vacancies, 93,000 will require postsecondary credentials. But if the current rate of degree production continues, only about 51 percent of Rhode Island's adult population -- 294,000 people -- will hold a college degree in 2025. It is evident that Rhode Island's economic future depends on producing more college graduates.
A degree or credential from a college or university is one of the surest paths to the middle class. Average earnings of college graduates are at a level that is twice as high as that of workers with only a high school degree. People with a college degree are more likely to be employed than those without one, and more likely to be employed in a job that provides quality health and retirement benefits.
Unfortunately, with expenses growing higher and higher, a college degree and a ladder to the middle class is growing further out of reach for more Rhode Islanders. No Rhode Islander should be denied a college degree simply because of financial difficulty.
That's why as governor, I will work with the Rhode Island Higher Education Assistance Authority to create and endow a new scholarship fund for any student who is academically qualified and wants to earn a post-secondary degree at one of our state's public colleges. In order to be eligible for this scholarship, students will have to demonstrate financial need, and earn a high-school GPA of 3.0 or higher. If they qualify, the scholarship fund will cover some or all tuition expenses and fees for any applicant after all other financial aid is applied.
The Scholarship Fund will make a college education at the University of Rhode Island, Rhode Island College, or the Community College of Rhode Island a reality for any Rhode Island high school student who wants a degree, but cannot afford to attend college.
Loan Forgiveness Program
Rhode Island is fortunate to be the home of many world-class colleges and universities. Unfortunately, we're losing too many of our best and brightest after they graduate, making our state less economically competitive, while increasing the strain on government services and undermining our tax base. A recent report by WPRI showed that 10 percent of "prime working-age" Rhode Islanders (25-54) have left the state between 2006 and 2012 to find jobs elsewhere.
At the same time, the number of citizens aged 55 and older jumped 19 percent. Older Rhode Islanders are staying in the state but aren't being replaced by a new generation of younger, working residents. Rhode Islanders 65 and older made up a larger share of the population than any other age group in 2012, whereas they were only the third largest in 2006.
Meanwhile, Rhode Island college students have the fourth highest student loan debt in the country according to a report released in 2012.
Having creative, economically productive young people in our state is critical to our future well-being, but right now, Rhode Islanders are leaving our state because there simply are no opportunities for them.
I will work with our state's employers to create a loan forgiveness program for students who put down roots in Rhode Island after graduating from one of our colleges or universities. Businesses who participate in the program will have access to a talented pipeline of highly trained employees, in exchange for paying off some of their loan debt. Not only will we be keeping more talent here in Rhode Island, but we'll be helping our businesses grow and thrive.
Reinvesting in CCRI
The Community College of Rhode Island is one of our state's greatest educational resources. Whether you're 18 years old and just graduating from college, or a 50-year-old who was recently let go, every Rhode Islander can turn to CCRI to get the education and training they need to start a new career. It is currently the single biggest supplier of health care workers in the state, and has helped scores of Rhode Islanders go on to earn a four-year degree.
But CCRI has tremendous untapped potential, in a time when Rhode Island needs it most. Community Colleges are increasingly becoming the engines of workforce development in our country, equipping thousands with certificates and associate degrees in high-demand, high-growth industries that provide good jobs with quality benefits. We can work together to ensure that CCRI is doing the same.
Developing Curriculum to Train Students in Skills Employers Need
Today's jobs require increasingly technical skills. They demand knowledge in science, technology, engineering, design and mathematics. No one knows these needs better than employers in our state looking for employees with these talents.
A degree or certificate from CCRI should equip graduates with the types of skills that employers are looking for. That's why we need to ensure that our state's businesses are working hand-in-hand with CCRI to tailor curriculum for the jobs of the future.
As governor, I will open an office at CCRI dedicated to bringing businesses to the table to identify the needs of employers, design curriculum that reflect those needs, and equipping the school with the types of programs, equipment and facilities they need to train students so that they are put on a pathway to a job in an in-demand industry.
Imagine, for example, a Rhode Island boat builder being able to sit down with CCRI to explain the various types of engineering and construction skills it needs for its employees, and working with the school to develop a brand new certificate in that area. The boat builder could not only help the school tailor the curriculum; it could work with its entire industry to provide CCRI with the types of equipment and facilities it would need to train its students.
An office like this would not be unprecedented in Rhode Island: The University of Rhode Island already has a Business Engagement Center dedicated to partnering businesses and industries with the University to put students to work, tailor the school's curriculum and share research. Our entire state should have a similar coordinated effort to connect businesses with our institutions of higher learning.
Creating Clinical Opportunities in Partnership with Employers
Learning doesn't just happen in classrooms: it happens on manufacturing floors, in kitchens and on worksites. Students earning their degrees at CCRI should have greater access to hands-on learning opportunities, and internship-for-credit classes that lead directly to employment.
Imagine again if that same boat builder working with CCRI to develop a training program also offered a for-credit program where students had the opportunity to work at their facilities a couple of days per week. Students would be learning the trade with professors in a classroom setting, and then putting that education into practice at the same time.
Businesses see the value of these kinds of initiatives, and are willing to invest in the schools and students who participate in them.
Helping More CCRI Students Graduate
With so many Rhode Islanders turning to CCRI to prepare for their careers, it is in the best interests of the entire state to ensure that they have the resources they need to see it through and earn their degrees.
Students at CCRI come to college with varying degrees of preparation. The reality is that some students are more prepared than others. Each individual starts their time at CCRI with a different life experience, a different education and oftentimes a different socio-economic background.
For these reasons and others, CCRI graduates only about 10 percent of its students. We must do better. We need to do a better job of standing by our community college students as they face the challenge of earning their degrees.
As governor, I will commit to doubling the graduation rate at CCRI in my first term by working with administrators, counselors and educators to identify why the school's graduation rate is so low, and how it can be remedied.
Other community colleges around the country have successful addressed the problem of low graduation rates. We can do the same.

Source: http://www.ginaraimondo.com/issues/education-equals-economic-success
