Public Statements
Raimondo, Rhode Island Emergency Management Agency Announce Launch The Rhode Island Cyber Range Initiative
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: Oct. 28, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo and the Rhode Island Emergency Management Agency (RIEMA), in partnership with the Community College of Rhode Island (CCRI), the Rhode Island State Police (RISP), the Rhode Island National Guard (RING), and the Southeastern New England Defense Industry Alliance (SENEDIA), officially launched the Rhode Island Cyber Range Initiative on Friday morning.
The Cyber Range will provide a unique, hands-on testing environment and educational setting with a virtual platform for cyber security modeling, simulation, and job training for future cyber professionals. Participants will be able to recreate their network in a controlled environment and test, evaluate and validate their cybersecurity capabilities and review advanced analytics of networks that may be subject to countless simulated cyber-attacks. Friday's Ribbon Cutting Ceremony was the official launch of the Rhode Island Cyber Range Initiative and showcased the cybersecurity resources Rhode Island possesses and has the ability to offer to academia and industry professionals.
"Now more than ever, we depend on technology for nearly every part of our lives - and that makes us vulnerable to cyberattacks that could disrupt critical services and operations, in state government and in the private sector," said Governor Gina M. Raimondo. "My focus is taking these challenges and turning them into opportunities for Rhode Island - and that's exactly what we're doing with the launch of this Cyber Range. We're training our workforce to make Rhode Island more secure and resilient against possible threats, and we're seizing the opportunity to create new jobs in this growing field. I want to thank the State Agencies, the Congressional Delegation, and the private sector for coming together to make this a reality."
"The Cyber Range Initiative is an example of the tremendous collaboration among government, higher education and the private sector in Rhode Island," said President of the Senate M. Teresa Paiva Weed. "This venture will improve our security while better positioning Newport and Rhode Island as a hub for technology and defense sector jobs."
"There is no better way to conclude Cybersecurity Awareness Month than with the opening of the Rhode Island Cyber Range," said Peter T. Gaynor, Director of RIEMA. "The Rhode Island Cyber Range promotes a unique, hands-on testing environment in which virtual elements are subjected to countless simulated cyber-attacks that participants train and exercise upon to advance their cybersecurity capabilities. This is a valuable asset, not only to develop a more prepared professional cybersecurity workforce, but to train and educate the entire community about how to better prepare for and respond to cyber threats."
"The Range provides our students with a learning tool that offers them the opportunity to gain real experience in identifying and mitigating cyber threats. This training will be especially valuable for students in the College's new Cyber Security Associate Degree program," said Meghan Hughes, President of CCRI. "CCRI is thrilled that RIEMA chose our Newport Campus to locate their Cyber Range."
"The Rhode Island State Police is proud to support RIEMA and CCRI in addressing the need for a well-trained cyber workforce," said Acting Colonel Kevin Barry of the RISP. "Protecting the cyber assets of individual citizens as well as the businesses of Rhode Island is our overarching goal, and we are pleased to stand alongside our partners in making this a reality."
"This teamwork will enhance the Rhode Island Joint Cyber Task Force by strengthening partnerships, developing future cyber security professionals, and providing critical feedback in the Cyber Range training environment," said Brigadier General Christopher Callahan, the Adjutant General of the RING.
"The range will be an important tool in building the future Rhode Island cybersecurity workforce, including the Rhode Island P-Tech Cybersecurity students, as well as providing collaboration and training opportunities for the Rhode Island business community, state agencies and academia," said Molly Donohue Magee, Executive Director of SENEDIA. "It will support cybersecurity internships and training for critical cybersecurity certifications by providing a secure environment for cybersecurity education, training and testing."

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/28885
