Public Statements
2017 Clean Energy Jobs Report: RI Clean Energy Jobs See 66 Percent Growth Since 2014
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: June 8, 2017
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo announced today that Rhode Island continues to show impressive job growth in the clean energy sector, as detailed in the 2017 Rhode Island Clean Energy Jobs Report released by the Rhode Island Office of Energy Resources and the Executive Office of Commerce.
"In March, I set a state goal to reach 1,000 MW of clean energy and add 20,000 clean energy jobs by 2020," said Governor Raimondo. "This latest Clean Energy Jobs Report demonstrates progress toward achieving that ambitious goal. Continued investment in clean energy alternatives not only provides significant energy and environmental benefits, but substantial economic growth opportunities for Rhode Island workers and businesses as well. It is a triple win for our environment, our economy and our future."
Now more than 15,300 jobs strong, Rhode Island's clean energy economy continues to grow. Since 2014, clean energy employment in the Ocean State has grown by an impressive 66 percent and 11 percent over just this past year.
"As we seek to integrate affordable, clean and reliable energy throughout our state, job growth naturally follows," said State Energy Commissioner Carol Grant. "The Office of Energy Resources is also supporting clean energy legislation before the General Assembly this legislative session that will continue to advance the state's clean energy economy, including a statewide solar electrical/building permit, the extension and expansion of the Renewable Energy Growth Program, and rebates for electric vehicles."
Commerce Secretary Stefan Pryor said, "The Ocean State has emerged as a leader in clean energy, and our economy will benefit as a result. We look forward to working with the Rhode Island-based pioneers, entrepreneurs, visionaries, and practitioners who are helping to shape the future of this globally important industry."
Some additional highlights from the report: Nearly half of all clean energy firms report that installation, maintenance, or repair is their primary value chain activity. Installation firms grew employment by 16 percent over the last 12 months; Energy efficiency remains the largest portion of the state's clean energy employment. It accounts for 59 percent of all clean energy jobs, or almost 9,000 workers; Trade firms reported a 32 percent employment growth, as the number of employers that reported primarily in-state suppliers increased by 11 percentage points. Download the 2017 Clean Energy Jobs Report - produced in collaboration with BW Research Partnership - and the Rhode Island Clean Energy Jobs At-A-Glance infographic at www.energy.ri.gov/cleanjobs/.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/30611
