Public Statements
What They're Saying: Raimondo's Strategic Plan for Workforce Pipeline at Quonset Point
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo Jim Langevin David Cicilline Jack Reed Sheldon Whitehouse
Date: July 20, 2016
Location: Providence, RI

Governor Gina M. Raimondo and Electric Boat (EB) today unveiled a strategic workforce plan aimed at addressing long-term hiring opportunities at Quonset Point. EB's Rhode Island facility currently employs 3,500 workers, and the company expects to employ more than 5,500 workers by the end of the 2020s.
"A year ago, I promised our Congressional Delegation that my administration would move decisively to fulfill Electric Boat's hiring needs," Raimondo said. "To compete in the 21st century economy, we need to invest in the skills that businesses need. This plan provides a reliable pipeline of talent to help EB meet its commitments to the U.S. Navy, and it puts thousands of Rhode Islanders to work in well-paying jobs. We're grateful for EB's partnership over the past months in arriving at this moment, and we look forward to delivering for EB in the months and years ahead."
What they're saying:
"This work is vitally important to meeting our national security needs and to strengthening our economy. This workforce development model will also serve as a blueprint for how a more demand-driven workforce development system can achieve results for employers and employees. This is truly a collaborative effort, and I will continue doing my part to make strategic investments to ensure Rhode Island is a high-tech hub of undersea technologies now and in the foreseeable future." - U.S. Senator Jack Reed, the Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, who helped include $5 billion for the Virginia-class submarine program and $1.5 billion for the Ohio-class submarine replacement program in the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)
"Thanks to great work led by Senator Reed and Congressman Langevin, Electric Boat's Quonset workforce is growing, and we want Rhode Islanders to be hired. This workforce development program will give Rhode Islanders the training to be competitive for those good-paying jobs. I commend Governor Raimondo for bringing together the private and public sectors to come up with this smart, demand-driven solution." - U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse
"More good-paying jobs are on the horizon at Electric Boat, and we must ensure that we have the appropriate training in place so that Rhode Islanders can seize these competitive opportunities. I co-chair the Career and Technical Education Caucus and serve as a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, so I am excited to see this nexus of workforce development programming and our state's strong defense industry. It's a win for our workforce, for our overall economy, for Quonset Point and for national security." - U.S. Congressman Jim Langevin
"Electric Boat is already one of the largest employers in Rhode Island, with 3,500 employees. It's critical that we work together at all levels of government to ensure that job-training and skill development programs are preparing Rhode Islanders for available, good-paying jobs. Governor Raimondo's plan to ensure 2,000 students graduate with the skills necessary to meet the present and future hiring needs at Electric Boat will help put Rhode Islanders back to work. This innovative plan strengthens the relationship between Rhode Island and Electric Boat and will result in well-paying jobs for thousands more Rhode Islanders in a growing industry." - U.S. Congressman David Cicilline
"We applaud the governor and her administration for their foresight in establishing partnerships with businesses like Electric Boat, which will provide Rhode Islanders with the opportunity to develop valuable job skills in the advanced manufacturing sector," - Maura Dunn, General Dynamics Electric Boat Vice President of Human Resources and Administration
"The Community College of Rhode Island is excited to be offering new, demand-driven programming in maritime electrical, pipefitting and sheet metal at the Westerly Higher Education and Job Skills Center beginning in November. It has been a pleasure to work directly with Electric Boat to address workforce training needs in this important sector of our economy. We want Rhode Island employers to know that CCRI is open for business and committed to Rhode Island's economic growth." - CCRI President Dr. Meghan Hughes
"With abundant justification, Governor Raimondo has placed an emphasis on growing our advanced manufacturing and innovation industries. We must focus on training and developing our workforce in order to meet the needs of businesses like Electric Boat and in order to grow our economy. This collaboration is exemplary and we're grateful to EB, DLT, and all of the partners who are working together to make it happen." - Commerce Secretary Stefan Pryor
"The success of our career-and-technical schools and programs depends on providing graduates with skills that will get them good jobs right away in a local business or industry. The Electric Boat Partnership can provide a model for partnerships between schools and other growth industries that will propel the Rhode Island economy in the years ahead." - Education Commissioner Ken Wagner
"Rhode Island and Electric Boat are on one and the same page. This plan exemplifies what can happen when committed partners set their minds to solving big workforce challenges to help people. Completing this task is obviously critical for Rhode Island and our partner and client, EB, but it's also critical for our client's client, the United States Navy." - Department of Labor and Training Director Scott Jensen
"New England Tech (NEIT) is pleased to continue to assist Governor Raimondo and her economic and workforce development team in creating a pipeline of qualified workers for Electric Boat. Preparing NEIT students for employment is rooted in our 76 year-history and mission. In the past ten years, New England Tech has more than 13,000 Associate in Science, Bachelor of Science and Master of Science graduates who have gone to work for nearly 5,000 employers, one half of which are located in Rhode Island." - NEIT President Richard Gouse

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/28110
