Public Statements
Attorney General Kilmartin Legislation to Regulate E-Cigarettes Passes House
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: June 15, 2016
Location: Unknown

Legislation filed on behalf of Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin that would require child resistant packaging for e-liquid used in electronic nicotine-delivery systems such as e-cigarettes passed the Rhode Island House of Representatives on Tuesday. The legislation (H7427) is sponsored by Representative Helio Melo (D, District 64: East Providence).
Under current Rhode Island law, an electronic nicotine-delivery system is defined as an "electronic device that may be used to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or other substance to a person inhaling from the device, and includes, but is not limited to, an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe or electronic hookah and any related device and any cartridge or other component of such device." R.I. Gen. Laws ยง 11-9-13.4 (15).
"The popularity and use of e-cigarettes and vaping products continues to rise. While the jury is still out on the health effects of e-cigarettes versus the known health traditional nicotine products, we can all agree that these products should be kept out of the hands of children," said Attorney General Kilmartin. "Most troubling is that these products -- especially e-liquids -- come in a variety of enticing flavors, such as candy crush and gummy bear, which appeal to children. There is currently no such regulation on this toxic product with respect to child-resistant packaging."
"Rhode Island children deserve better protection from a product that is both dangerous to them and made to taste and seem like candy. We should not accept this obvious risk, and must demand that manufacturers do a better job packaging their product in a way that helps keep it out of the mouths of small children," said Representative Helio Melo.
Attorney General Kilmartin's legislation would require all liquid "intended for human consumption and/or use in an electronic nicotine-delivery system" to be contained in child-resistant packaging. The term "child-resistant packaging", modeled after the definition of "special packaging" as defined by the federal Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970, would be defined as "packaging that is designed or constructed to be significantly difficult for children under five years of age to open or obtain a toxic or harmful amount of the substance contained therein within a reasonable time and not difficult for normal adults to use properly, but does not mean packaging which all such children cannot open or obtain a toxic or harmful amount within a reasonable time."

Source:
