Public Statements
State Arts Council Announces Call for Artists for Block Island Airport Gallery
Press Release
By: Gina Raimondo
Date: June 13, 2016
Location: Unknown

The gallery space at the Block Island Airport is accepting art submissions for their 2017 exhibitions. The gallery program is a partnership between RISCA and the Rhode Island Airport Corporation, to promote outstanding work by artists living and working in Rhode Island. The gallery at the Block Island Airport will present art to an ever-changing audience of local, national and international travelers. Works in all media will be considered. Note that the Block Island Airport Gallery is best suited to moderately-sized works. The Block Island Airport presents four artists per year in solo exhibitions. Artists included in the 2017 exhibitions will receive a $100 stipend for participating in the program.
Eligibility: All participating artists must be Rhode Island residents. No students please. Resident Block Island artists are encouraged to apply.
Artists are encouraged to apply to the gallery even if they have applied in previous years and not been selected. Artists who have exhibited previously are ineligible for new consideration for a period of two years.
Entry Deadline: September 1, 2016
Juror of Note: Artists will be selected for the 2017 exhibitions by juror Catherine Little Bert. Please see biography below.
Apply: please submit the following via email:
-A link to your current web site that includes images with captions (title, year, media, size), a current bio and artist's statement;
Or
-A link to a Flickr page showing images of one's artwork with captions (title, year, media, size) and attach to the email a current bio and artist's statement.
Please email submissions to airportartsRI@gmail.com. Please note "Block Island Airport Gallery" in the subject line of the email.
If selected, artists agree to suitably frame, wire or otherwise prepare their artwork for display at their own expense. Works for Block Island must be 34" x 46" or smaller, and packaged by the artist for safe transport via ferry. Artwork is hung at gallery coordinator's discretion, and gallery coordinator reserves the right of final selection of artwork and approval of installation. Artwork is not insured by the galleries during exhibition; artists are encouraged to carry their own insurance. Artwork may be listed for sale if desired, and any sales are direct without commission to the galleries.
To learn more about this opportunity and view photos of the exhibition space, please visit: http://www.arts.ri.gov/public/airports/ and https://www.flickr.com/photos/risca-photos/albums/with/72157665900123613.
Please address any questions regarding this call to Molly Dickinson, Coordinator, at AirportArtsRI@gmail.com or 401-845-0890.
About the Juror: Catherine Little Bert, director and owner of Bert Gallery since its founding in 1985, has passionately researched and written on the subject of local artists. The fertile artistic community of the late 19th century Providence has been a focal point of her research and exhibitions, in addition to her representation of contemporary Rhode Island artists.
Her recent accomplishments include contributions to the 2008 publication Infinite Radius: Founding Rhode Island School of Design, and research on the early Providence Art Club artists and important Rhode Island women artists of the 19th century to Sketches, an art journal funded by the Rhode Island Committee for the Humanities and co-authored with LJ McElroy. Recent lectures include Nancy E. Prophet; African American Sculptor at the Providence Athenaeum, Edward Bannister and Nancy E. Prophet Against the Odds at the North Kingston Library, and Mary Coleman Wheeler: (1846 -- 1920) at the News Women Press Club, Washington, DC.
In 2017 she will co-curate with Nancy Grinnell and exhibit on the founding women of the Providence Art Club in celebration of Women's History Month.
Catherine Little Bert received a B.A. from Providence College and an M.A. from the University of Connecticut. She completed the course work for the Certificate in Appraisal Studies in Fine and Decorative Arts at New York University. Additionally, Bert is on the Board of Trustees at Providence College and on the National Advisory Board at the National Museum of Women in the Arts (NMWA) in Washington, DC. In the past she has served as a Board of Trustee at the Rhode Island Historical Society, Co-President of Gallery Night Providence and Chair of the National Advisory Board at NMWA.
About RISCA:?The Rhode Island State Council on the Arts is a state agency supported by appropriations from the Rhode Island General Assembly and grants from the National Endowment for the Arts, a federal agency. RISCA provides grants, technical assistance and staff support to arts organizations and artists, schools, community centers, social service organizations and local governments to bring the arts into the lives of Rhode Islanders.?
About RIAC:?The Rhode Island Airport Corporation operates T.F. Green Airport and the five general aviation airports in Rhode Island. A long-time supporter of public art in Rhode Island, the Rhode Island Airport Corporation has worked with the Rhode Island State Council on the Arts on a number of public art commissions for T. F. Green Airport and Block Island Airport.

Source: http://www.ri.gov/press/view/27795
