Public Statements
Failed Policy in Iraq
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 13, 2004
Location: Washington DC

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
SENATE
Sept. 13, 2004
FAILED POLICY IN IRAQ
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, 3 days ago, a picture appeared in the Minneapolis-based Star Tribune newspaper, accompanying a Los Angeles Times article whose headline read: "U.S. Makes Show of Strength in Fallujah."
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the Record following my remarks.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
(See exhibit 1.)
Mr. DAYTON. The picture, for the record, showed about 30 Iraqi civilians standing amidst the rubble of bombed buildings in the Iraqi town of Fallujah. In the forefront of the picture were five Iraqi children, and the caption beneath the picture read:
An Iraqi boy weeps, as people survey the destruction in a neighborhood, following a U.S. airstrike overnight. Twelve Iraqis were killed, including several women and children. . . .
President Bush makes a show of strength, and an Iraqi boy weeps. I say "President Bush" because this is not the U.S. military. They are carrying out the orders of their Commander in Chief. This is not the American people because the American people do not kill innocent women and children in another country. This is the result of and the responsibility of a failed policy in Iraq by the President and his administration.
There were at least two other aerial bombings that day in two other Iraqi cities, according to that one story-more destruction, more civilian casualties, more children weeping; children who lost brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers, grandparents, and friends; children who will have the United States of America, for the rest of their lives, seared into their memories; children who will, horribly, possibly cheer if terrorists can cause that kind of terrible destruction to Americans in American cities; children who might even be willing to do something like that themselves in revenge.
President Bush, Vice President Cheney, and other apologists for this continuing war in Iraq claim that they are fighting terrorists there so we won't have to fight them here. By these actions, I maintain they are creating terrorists in Iraq whom we will have to fight here, whom we will have to defend against, fend off, and protect ourselves from for years, even decades to come. How would we feel if our children or our friends or our parents or wives or husbands were buried beneath the rubble that used to be our homes, our stores, and our neighborhoods?
I do not fault the courageous Americans in our Armed Forces who have borne the brunt of this administration's failed policy. To the contrary, I salute them for their heroism and their patriotism. It has been over a year and a half since they won the initial military victory in Iraq. They went from the Iraqi border to Baghdad in 3 weeks. They routed Saddam Hussein's army. They toppled his evil regime. And since then, they have stood guard until someone began to run that country.
They are still standing guard, 138,000 brave Americans. They are fighting, they are bleeding, and they are dying because this administration and their Iraqi allies have not figured out how to run that country.
We need a policy, a plan, and a timetable to get out of Iraq-not to lose Iraq but to leave Iraq, not tomorrow or next week, unfortunately-because the Bush administration has failed. They have failed to prepare for that. But not in 10 or 20 years, as my colleague, the senior Senator from Arizona, Mr. McCain, has predicted. He is not recommending that course of action; he is just telling us and the American people the truth. Thank goodness someone is telling us the truth, the truth about what the Bush administration has gotten us into and where their present policies will leave us.
What he can't tell us, because no one can, is how many more Americans will die in Iraq during those 10 or 20 years; how many more Americans will die elsewhere around the world or, God forbid, right in this very country because of the failures of those policies today.
Today I am asking the esteemed chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee to hold oversight hearings this week on the current policy in Iraq, on the military situation there, on the plans of this administration, on the timetable for our continuing involvement there, and on the costs in dollars and lives and international esteem to the United States of America, because the American people deserve the truth. This Congress deserves the facts. Our soldiers, our 138,000 courageous Americans serving in Iraq today, deserve to come home with their military victory secured.
And I say to those who want to support our troops, if you want to support our troops, bring them home alive, bring them home alive now or as soon as possible hereafter, but not in 4 years or 10 years or 20 years. Make the administration in Iraq and the people of Iraq responsible for their own country. That is what democracy is about. It is about self-determination and self-responsibility. It is time the people of Iraq become responsible for Iraq. It is time the 206,000 militia and military that we claim to have trained in Iraq become responsible for Fallujah and Baghdad and everywhere else in Iraq.
The article I referred to earlier states: U.S. and Iraqi authorities lost control of Fallujah last April after they turned the city over to a U.S.-sanctioned force, the Fallujah brigade, which has now all but disappeared.
Where did they disappear to? I supported that action back then. I thought that was the right course of action, that we make Iraqis responsible for the defense of their own country, for the security of their own cities. Now I learn, not through this administration's disclosures but through an article appearing in an investigative story-thank goodness for the free and vigilant press because we wouldn't learn those things here in Congress if we were waiting to be told-that the Fallujah brigade has "all but disappeared."
That is a fundamental failure of this administration and the Iraqi administration to train, equip, and motivate the Iraqi forces in Iraq to stand up for and defend their own country from whomever it is over there-insurgents, terrorists, and citizens who want an end to the violence, understandably so, in their own homes and neighborhoods.
It is time to put Iraq in charge of Iraq, make them stand up and fight for their own country, for their own cities, for their own security, and stop forcing Americans on the ground or in the air to cause this kind of destruction that that picture capsulizes which is going to wreak future destruction on our own cities and our own people.
This is a failed policy. It is a disastrous policy. It is one for which this administration should take responsibility.
Again, I call upon the Armed Services Committee of the Senate to hold oversight hearings and tell the American people the truth about what is going on there and what the future holds-in the near future, not the future future.
EXHIBIT 1
[From the Los Angeles Times, Sept. 10, 2004]
U.S. MAKES SHOW OF STRENGTH IN FALLUJAH
(By Patrick J. McDonnell)
BAGHDAD.-U.S. forces rolled into the rebel bastion of Samarra on Thursday and sought to reestablish Iraqi government control as aircraft pounded suspected guerrilla positions in two other insurgent strongholds: the flashpoint city of Fallujah in the west and the trouble spot of Tal Afar in the north.
The show of strength-along with the stated U.S. resolve to crush a Shiite Muslim militia in Baghdad-underscored the military's determination to exert control over the country in the months leading up to elections scheduled for January.
The U.S. move against the three insurgent centers came after a spike in attacks this week that pushed American military fatalities from all causes to more than 1,000. The actions appeared designed to dispel the perception that swaths of Iraq had become a "no-go" zone for U.S. troops.
American warplanes struck Fallujah, the third attack in as many days against suspected insurgent positions in the city 30 miles west of Baghdad. U.S. and Iraqi authorities lost control of Fallujah after U.S. Marines ended a three-week siege last April and turned the city over to a U.S.-sanctioned force, the Fallujah Brigade, which has now all but disappeared.
Nine people, including two children, were reported killed in a Fallujah house that the U.S. command suspected of being used by allies of the Jordanian-born terror mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.
FOREIGN FIGHTERS
On Thursday evening, a U.S. spokesman, Maj. Jay Antonelli, revised the earlier description of events in Fallujah. "In spite of the great care taken to spare the lives of noncombatants, an unknown number of Iraqi civilians were unfortunately among those killed and wounded in the strike," Antonelli said in an e-mail statement.
"The foreign fighters who hide among the people of Fallujah place them at significant risk," Antonelli said.
He added: "Foreign fighters will not enjoy safe haven anywhere in the city."
In a separate statement, the U.S. command said military operations around Tal Afar were designed to rid the city of "a large terrorist element that has displaced local Iraqi security forces throughout the recent weeks."
The U.S. military said 57 insurgents were killed in the attack on Tal Afar, a northern city near the border with Syria that lies on smuggling routes for weapons and foreign fighters. The provincial health director, Dr. Rabie Yassin, said 27 civilians were killed and 70 wounded. It was unclear whether those reported by the Iraqis as civilians were counted as insurgents by the Americans.
Meanwhile, relative calm held in much of the Shiite Muslim heartland after an agreement negotiated last month by Iraq's leading Shiite cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Husseini al-Sistani. The agreement brought an end to weeks of fighting between U.S. troops and Shiite militiamen loyal to radical cleric Muqtada al-Sadr.
Scattered clashes continued between Al-Sadr's loyalists and American forces in the radical cleric's Baghdad stronghold, Sadr City.
Iraqi officials want to prevent Al-Sadr from rebuilding his forces in Najaf. Toward that end, dozens of Iraqi soldiers and police raided Al-Sadr's Najaf office to search for weapons. Al-Sadr was not there at the time, and no weapons were found, although Iraqi officials said ammunition and mortars were confiscated from nearby houses.
U.S. and Iraqi government troops are not in full control of several cities and areas in Iraq, including Samarra in the north, Fallujah and Ramadi in the west, and the largely Shiite neighborhood known as Sadr City in eastern Baghdad, where a militia holds sway. Other cities and towns, such as Tal, have become guerrilla bastions where the U.S.-backed Iraqi government exerts only limited control.
In Samarra, U.S. commanders said their forces, accompanied by members of the Iraqi police and by national guard soldiers, drove into the city Thursday morning after gaining assurances from local Iraqi leaders that they would not be fired on. The local leaders said they sensed divisions within the insurgents' ranks between those who favored some accommodation with the Americans and those who rejected it, and felt secure enough to issue the temporary guarantee.
U.S. soldiers and the Iraqi police then convened a meeting of the U.S.-backed council, which chose a new mayor and police chief. After a few uneventful hours, the U.S. soldiers and the Iraqi police left.
However, commanders acknowledge that as many as 500 insurgents remain in Samarra. The guerrillas' preference is to strike at smaller U.S. or Iraqi units. In classic guerrilla style, they tend to hide their arms and blend in among city residents when faced with larger forces.
The U.S. troops pulled out at the end of the day for lack of a secure base to spend the night.
Maj. Neal O'Brien of the 1st Infantry Division, which patrols four provinces north of Baghdad that includes Samarra, said, "We will never give up our right to maneuver in any of our areas."
The U.S. approach in Samarra since spring had been to allow local leaders to work out a way to disarm or otherwise neutralize a stubborn insurgent force that had disrupted government and police activities in the ancient city of 200,000.
The largely Sunni Muslim population has long posed a major challenge for U.S. forces. The city was the site of a large-scale U.S. offensive last winter designed to flush out a guerrilla force thought to be composed of religious militants, anti-American nationalists and loyalists of Saddam Hussein's former Baath Party. During that offensive, a U.S. force of more than 3,000 soldiers also met little resistance as the guerrillas apparently melted into the populace.
But in recent months, residents say, Samarra had fallen back under insurgent control.
Mr. DAYTON. I yield the floor.
