Public Statements
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 2004
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 7, 2004
Location: Washington DC

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
SENATE
Sept. 7, 2004
EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DISASTER RELIEF ACT, 2004
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, may I ask the majority leader, what are the factors that decide whether a particular disaster merits this kind of expedited action and which ones do not? I certainly want to agree with what the Democratic leader just said because my State, which is adjacent to his, has suffered for the last 4 years now from various disasters. After the first 2 years, we were finally able to get the administration to relent and allow for one of those 2 years to be covered for farmers, many of whom lost their entire crop in our State.
Last year, we had another round of natural disasters, and there was no disaster relief provided or authorized by the Congress or agreed to by the administration. Now, this year, my State has just experienced a frost that has cost $190 million in damages, and it is likely to mount.
Again, when the majority leader-I respect his candor-says that further requests or supplementals may be forthcoming, that is not much consolation to my farmers and constituents; whereas, now in the State of Florida-and I share the Democratic leader's sympathies for that State because there are many Minnesota residents who are affected who have part-time residencies in the State of Florida-but on behalf of those who live all the time in Minnesota, they are not going to be as sympathetic when their needs continue to be ignored and right away Florida gets this kind of expedited assistance.
I wonder, again, what are the criteria and are they going to apply to any State other than Florida?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.
Mr. FRIST. Mr. President, I will make a very brief response because I talked about it a couple times on the floor today. FEMA is out of money-FEMA is out of money-beginning in about 12 hours. So without trying to go through each request by each Senator, certain criteria can be applied. FEMA will be out of money tomorrow. We are talking about FEMA generally. That is why this $2 billion is being expedited tonight at the request of the President of the United States. I understand there can be many individual requests, but the criteria are the agency in charge of emergency management broadly will be out of money tomorrow.
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I do respect the majority leader.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Minnesota.
Mr. DAYTON. Thank you, Mr. President.
The farmers in my State are out of money. There are farmers in my State who were out of money last year who have been forced into bankruptcy. How do they make the necessary appeal to the President to get on his list? Is it required that the Governor of the State be the brother of the President? How is this going to be handled? Because based on the most recent hurricane, Frances-again, I am sympathetic to those affected, which includes Minnesotans, but we are going to have another request. Can we have an assurance there will be an opportunity at that time, as the Democratic leader is trying to obtain, so we can offer amendments to have the Senate consider other requests for disaster aid? Is that something on which we could get a concurrence?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.
Mr. FRIST. Mr. President, I will sort of restate what to the Democratic leader we tried to say. There will be opportunities to consider individual States. Right now we have an emergency for the agency which responds to all of our emergencies-FEMA.
We have a deadline. The President made this specific request last night. There will be opportunities to talk about particular Senators' interests in representing their constituents as to what are legitimate concerns. But I do plead, for the sake of people around the country, including in Florida, as we speak, that we do not, in essence, defund our Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, when we have this opportunity to take a bill that is coming from the House, going to the Senate floor, requested by the President of the United States, so people can have shelter and can have food and emergency services because the deficiency is that tomorrow they will be out of money.
Mr. President, let me just one more time propound the unanimous consent request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
The Senator from Minnesota.
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I reserve the right to object to say that I will not object in this case but with the understanding that the next time, as the majority leader said, there will be opportunities. If there is another supplemental request, I will insist on the opportunity to at least have these other requests considered. I will not object.
