Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 17, 2004
Location: Washington DC


August 17, 2004 Tuesday
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE
SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT MILITARY OPERATIONS AND PROPOSALS TO REORGANIZE THE U.S. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR JOHN WARNER (R-VA)
WITNESSES: SECRETARY OF DEFENSE DONALD RUMSFELD; AND ACTING DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE JOHN MCLAUGHLIN; AND GENERAL RICHARD MYERS, CHAIRMAN, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF; AND STEPHEN CAMBONE, UNDERSECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE
LOCATION: 325 RUSSELL SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D-MN): Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen.
Mr. Secretary, the 9/11 commission report-I'm quoting here on page 43 -- states, "In most cases, the chain of command authorizing the use of force runs from the president to the secretary of Defense, from the secretary to the combatant commander." President Bush, because of-by his account and others, communications problems on board Air Force One that morning-was having difficulty establishing communication with the vice president on a consistent basis. The commission goes on to say here that the president spoke with you for the first time shortly after 10:00, which would have been almost two hours after the first hijacking began. No one can recall the content of this conversation, but it was a brief call in which the subject of the shoot-down of these incoming hijacked planes authority was not discussed.
At 10:39 the vice president updated you on the air threat. The vice president was understandably under the belief that, since he had communicated twice-possibly three times, according to this report-through a military aide to NORAD, the authority from the president to shoot down an incoming plane that did not detour that was the instruction that had been passed on. The NORAD commander told the commission-both the mission commander and the senior weapons director of NORAD indicated-and I'm quoting again the commission report-they "did not pass the order to the fighters circling Washington and New York because they were unsure how the pilots would or should proceed with this guidance." What is the necessary chain of command to be established so that an order directed from the president verbally from the vice president to NORAD is carried out-or is communicated, I should say, to those who must carry it out?
SEC. RUMSFELD: Dick Myers and Dr. Cambone were with me that day. The way you've stated it is not the way I recall it, the two-hour figure you used. My recollection is the first tower was hit sometime around 8:46 I think.
SEN. DAYTON: Sorry, sir. I said the first hijacking commenced at 8:14.
SEC. RUMSFELD: Oh, the first hijacking. I beg your pardon.
SEN. DAYTON: You're right, though. About an hour and a half after the first plane struck.
SEC. RUMSFELD: I think the way to respond to this, Senator, is as follows. Under the way the national security arrangement is and was-should say was-the responsibility of the Department of Defense was essentially to defend our country from external threats.
Indeed, the responsibility for internal threats, which is obviously what was taking place on September 11th, not an external threat-it was from within the country-was the responsibility of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and, in the case of a hijacked aircraft, the Federal Aviation Administration.
And the responsibilities of the Department of Defense for-was as a supporter (sic) of an attack on our country, in the event we were asked. But the Congress and the country has for many decades kept the Department of Defense out of the law enforcement business, out of the crime business, out of internal law enforcement issues under the Posse Comitatus Act.
So the Department of Defense was oriented externally. Our radars were pointing out, not in. And the FAA was the one that then had the responsibility to say there's a hijack and then ask the Department of Defense, "Say, will you track and report on that hijacking?" The hijacking traditionally being a situation where a plane is taken for the purpose of going someplace and then getting some political advantage for it, not flying it into a building.
So the way you characterized the chain of command is correct, from the president to the secretary of Defense to the combatant commander. But it applied to things from external threats, not the responsibility of the FBI or the FAA.
SEN. DAYTON: I respect, sir, that the circumstances that morning were very different from what anybody had foreseen. Given, however, that the vice president at that point, from the command control bunker of the White House, was communicating-again, I'm using the 9/11 commission report's information here-is communicating via a military aide to NORAD the president's verbal authority to shoot down a plane, and that information is not-that instruction is not communicated then to the fighter pilots circling the United States' capital and New York City, is that the way it's supposed to function? Will that-would that happen again if we were to be surprised again today?
SEC. RUMSFELD: I'm going to ask General Myers to add to this, but the answer is of course not. Since that day, a great many adjustments and changes have been made. And we have various types of fighter aircraft on alert. We have a-established a(n) assistant secretary for Homeland Security in the Department of Defense. We have established a Northern Command that never existed, for the Department of Defense, to be addressing the homeland security issues from a Defense Department standpoint. We have a new Department of Homeland Security that exists. There are just a dozen things that are different.
The way to stop airplanes is clearly from the ground. That is to say-to have air marshals and to have reinforced doors and to have baggage inspections and to not allow terrorists on aircraft, that they can then take that aircraft and fly it into a building.
Now, as a last resort, is it possible that we could shoot down an aircraft in the event that it was necessary? Yes, it's possible. Airplanes fly right past the Pentagon every, you know, five minutes, and what it takes is simply to lower your nose and go into something. Could we stop that? No. I mean, the fact of the matter is that with all the airplanes flying around in the skies, it is not possible to do it in many instances. We do spend a lot of money and a lot of effort to try to stop it, both from the ground and from the air. And so the answer to your question is yes, a great deal has changed.
SEN. DAYTON: And my time has expired. Mr. Chairman, if I may, just ask --
SEN. WARNER: (Off mike.) Let's have General Myers' reply.
SEN. DAYTON: May I ask him also --
GEN. MYERS: Yes, sir.
SEN. WARNER: Go ahead, Senator --
GEN. MYERS: Senator Dayton, I would just add to the secretary's remarks that now that NORAD is focused inward as well as externally that there are rules of engagement that have been promulgated that are well understood-in a classified session or outside this room we could talk about that if you want to. But they're very well understood up and down the chain of command, and it's practiced on a-it's practiced all the time. And clearly we're talking about some very serious issues here, as the secretary said.
It also involves ground defenses, not just air defenses. But the rules of engagement, the command and control structure that's set in there, is completely different because the mission for NORAD changed after 9/11, and no longer were they asked to look just externally but also internally. And the relationship between NORAD and the Federal Aviation Administration has also changed dramatically, and we've worked those arrangements where we have, I think, very good communications today. And I talked to General Eberhardt today about that particular issue and he certainly agrees.
SEN. DAYTON: Mr. Chairman, if I may just ask that-respond also, Mr. Chairman, if you would, to-in writing-to the-I think it's inference but it's also really an explicit accusation made in the substance of the report on-particularly page 34 -- that NORAD's testimony 20 months after 9/11 to the 9/11 commission about the sequence of events, particularly the failure of the FAA to inform NORAD on a timely basis of three of the four hijackings, was inaccurate.
The statement made by NORAD publicly one week after 9/11 was very similar to that testimony made 20 months later-was also inaccurate, seriously misleading anybody trying to assess the response and non- response that day in a way that I think is far more alarming about FAA's failure-proper response-than NORAD's. But I-if you would please review that testimony and see, because I don't believe anybody has held those discrepancies-anyone to account for those discrepancies-that I consider them to be more than just oversights; I think they're serious misrepresentations of the facts. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
SEN. WARNER: Thank you.
GEN. MYERS: Can I make just a comment on that, Senator Dayton? I'll liken this to an accident investigation board when an aircraft crashes. I've been reviewing officials at the table at many of those.
And normally what happens-when an incident happens, there is the first report, which has some accuracies and many inaccuracies. And so statements, what people believe happened immediately afterwards and in the next week or two weeks is what they believe. But as they continue to harvest the facts, and as we go to machines to record things like aircraft recorders, like radarscoped recorders and so forth, you know, the facts become clearer. And what people thought they saw or thought they understood or thought they heard changes over time, and that's the nature of these kind of investigations.
So I think NORAD would be the first to say that because of the access that the 9/11 commission had to certain parts of this apparatus that was collecting this data that it sharpened their focus, too, and things they thought happened turned out to be either different or incomplete. And it took a lot of work and a lot of months to come to, you know, what was ground truth. The same thing is true in accident investigations. It takes us sometimes many months to come to ground truth, and what people thought they heard, what they thought they saw will be changed as they review the facts, and I think that's the case.
I've talked to General Eberhardt about this. I do not know what the motivation of NORAD would be to ever lie or deceive. I mean, that's not what they're pledged to do. They're pledged to do the same thing we all are in uniform, and that's defend this country. And I would take exception to anybody who thinks that they had any other motive.
SEN. WARNER: Thank you very much, General.
Senator Cornyn.
SEN. DAYTON: I would just say, Mr. Chairman, this is 20 months-this sworn testimony to the commission 20 months after the event I think is worthy of your scrutiny, please. And furthermore because-and I bring this up not just for historical reasons-two months ago-and if you have a chance to review the circumstances of the plane that caused the evacuation of the Capitol complex with thousands of people running for their lives here, being informed to do so by the Capitol Police because of, again, a failure of the FAA. And it's almost entirely, based on the evidence I have, their failure to communicate just basic information to air defense, to anyone else, including the Capitol Police, that we had a situation there. The closest simulation I think we could possibly have, because people thought it was a real threat until they found out otherwise, that we could have. And here, two-and-a-half years after 9/11 has occurred, we find basically again a complete breakdown of communication by the federal authorities; and again, primarily FAA, but to national defense command and to others so that we don't have a response.
And you know, we talk about things not changing as a result of 9/11. This to me is the most horrific example that I can imagine. And if we don't deal with the fact that we failed now a second time on the basic elements of communication and following protocols and procedures --
SEN. WARNER: Senator, I have to thank you.
SEN. DAYTON: No, sir, I've waited, sir, for three and four hours here and I just want to finish.
SEN. WARNER: Yeah, but you're going to cut out the time of other senators to be able to ask a single question.
SEN. DAYTON: That's right, yes, as I have waited a long time, sir.
SEN. WARNER: I'd ask your indulgence to supply it for the record, please, so that I can turn to --
SEN. DAYTON: Before 9/11 happens again, I ask that we review that evidence.
SEN. WARNER: (I you'd ?) -- take care --
SEN. DAYTON: Thank you.
