Public Statements
Panel I of a Hearing of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 3, 2004
Location: Washington DC

August 3, 2004 Tuesday
HEADLINE: PANEL I OF A HEARING OF THE SENATE GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
SUBJECT: ASSESSING AMERICA'S COUNTERTERRORISM CAPABILITIES; RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 9/11 COMMISSION
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR SUSAN COLLINS (R-ME)
PANEL I WITNESSES: JOHN BRENNAN, DIRECTOR, TERRORIST THREAT INTEGRATION CENTER; PHILIP MUDD, DEPUTY DIRECTOR, CIA COUNTERTERRORIST CENTER; LT. GEN. PATRICK HUGHES, DHS ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR INFORMATION ANALYSIS; JOHN PISTOLE, FBI EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FOR COUNTERTERRORISM AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE;
LOCATION: 216 HART SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D-MN): Thank you, Madame Chairman.
I want to join with the others in commending you for this hearing, Senator Lieberman, the two of you working together to bring us all together here.
Director Brennan, you in your remarks state that the president called for the creation of this integrated center "to merge and analyze all threat information in a single location," which then became TTIC. And then you go on to say that "as envisioned by the president, this physical integration of expertise and sharing of information enables and empowers the key organizations involved in the fight against terrorism." And then you go on to say that "fusion and synergy will be further enhanced when the CIA's Counterterrorist Center and the FBI's Counterterrorism Division co-locate with TTIC in the coming months."
When is that going to occur? And why has that not occurred if that physical co-location is such an important part of your effectiveness?
MR. BRENNAN: Well, as you can imagine, trying to bring those three entities together-the TTIC, the Counterterrorism Division of the FBI, and the Counterterrorism Center from CIA-requires a physical infrastructure in order to accommodate that. We have recently moved into this new building, a new facility. We, TTIC, are there in totality. The FBI and CIA have already started to move those individuals into the building.
What we're doing is the Counterterrorism Division is still going to be responsible for the operational activities that the FBI runs. So it's three parts of this building right now that we are moving toward. I think what we have to do is to look at that in terms of the national counterterrorism center and to see whatever type of modifications might need to be made as a result of that. But there's a physical infrastructural requirement whenever you do something like this.
SEN. DAYTON: The federal government didn't have a building in West Virginia somewhere where you could all immediately move? (Laughter.)
SEN. BRENNAN: There are a lot of buildings, sir, but you have to make sure it has the connectivity requirements and to Oklahoma City standards, and all sorts of --
SEN. DAYTON: And I note, Director Pistole and Director Mudd, neither of you in your remarks mentioned this co-location. Is this intended? When will it occur? And is it desirable, in fact, to occur?
MR. PISTOLE: Yeah, absolutely, Senator, it's desirable. And we're in the process. It's simply a matter of the build-out of the different areas. The TTIC area was the first to be built-out; the Counterterrorism Division, we've moved in less than a hundred. We should have that all completed by the end of September in terms of all those people from Counterterrorism Division are moving out.
MR. MUDD: Sir, in terms of the physical location, the issue here was simply the setting up of the infrastructure, its set-up. We started moving a few weeks ago.
One of the other issues you should take note of is that there isn't sufficient space there for the entire center that I manage. So one of the difficulties we'll have, but I think this is a difficulty we can overcome, is managing in two places about three miles apart. But it's a good idea. We should be talking to each other. I think co-location is underrated in terms of the importance for cooperation. And we have started moving.
SEN. DAYTON: So if it's important, then why wasn't a space found that could allow your entire operation to co-locate? You've already overgrown the space, or the space is already inadequate for the three operations? I don't understand.
MR. MUDD: I look at this as a first step. I mean again, we spent the last couple years fighting the war. We're starting to focus more on future and infrastructural issues. I don't --
SEN. DAYTON: I'm just talking about finding of a space that you would move into that would be sufficient from the outset to house all three of the operations that are valuable to co-locate, as I understand it correctly.
I mean, now you're already saying that there's not sufficient space in that site to house your entire operation?
MR. MUDD: That's right. You're talking about thousands of people and an infrastructure that's quite-so I see --
SEN. DAYTON: All the better to move everybody at one time into one location. I --
MR. MUDD: Senator, I would just say that there are options for expansion there, as far as potentially co-locating other elements.
SEN. DAYTON: But why would you move into a space that isn't adequate to begin with?
MR. MUDD: Needed to move very quickly into a place that had the --
SEN. DAYTON: Fifteen months.
MR. MUDD: There are options, in fact, to build out there.
SEN. DAYTON: Well, it just-it seems to me this is sort of endemic in government. And you talk about the need to move swiftly in these matters and not to move precipitously, but then to move and not even, from the outset, be moving into space that's adequate to bring these three entities, which were supposed to be co-located, according to the purpose of TTIC, starting presumably from the outset, or close to it; and now we're 15 months later; and two of the entities haven't moved in yet; and one of the entities isn't even going to be able move in, in its entirety, because there's not enough space into the space that you're moving into. I just think that's more-you know, very counterproductive, I would say.
We have 15 different agencies, entities that are, we're told, involved in intelligence gathering operations. Are there any of those 15 that, in your respective judgments, could be consolidated or merged? I'm going to start with, well, General Hughes, and then ask each of you in turn.
GEN. HUGHES: I think that the roles and functions can, and indeed the national counterterrorism center would be a reflection of that, to some degree. But the departmental requirements, the operational requirements at the organizational level still have to be accounted for by some reflection of a(n) organizational entity in those departments for intelligence. So I've thought a lot about that over the years, and I think we're pretty much stuck with the kind of idea that each organization needs an intelligence entity of their own that is immediately accessible to them.
SEN. DAYTON: Do any of the other three of you care to suggest a consolidation or a merger of an entity or agency?
MR. MUDD: I'm not sure I have a suggestion on the consolidation part. I would say, looking at CIA capabilities, that a lot of these are set up by specific authorities from the president and via statute. So one of the things I'd have to consider in looking at that and one of the things that is specific to all the agencies we manage is that we do have specific responsibilities, like-by law, including, for example, in my agency, covert action. So if you just say, "CIA, go someplace else," I'd say we-there's some significant legal issues to consider, aside from all the cultural and other issues. So that's all the comment I'd have.
MR. BRENNAN: I would say intelligence reform transformation should take into account the broad array of intelligence agencies that are out there. And I think one of the worthwhile things to do is to take a look and see whether or not there can be structural reforms made, because over the years the development and the building of different intelligence capabilities needs to make sure that it fits into part of a broader architecture. And so I would say that it's a worthwhile review that needs to be looked at.
SEN. DAYTON: Who's going to be able to advise us on that without --
MR. BRENNAN: Well, I think there are going to be discussions as they move forward with a national intelligence director that is going to take a look at the broad array of those intelligence agencies that would fall under that person's responsibility.
SEN. DAYTON: But there's not-you're not prepared today to recommend any specifically that could be merged or consolidated, of the 15 --
MR. BRENNAN: I'm trying to run TTIC today and prepare for the NCTC.
SEN. DAYTON: (All right. Thanks ?).
It seems that this is one of the dilemmas that we encounter-is that if we have these entities, and they're all going to be-remain separate, disparate, then we're going to have to put another layer of coordination on top of the other layers of coordination. And I mean, that's exactly the problem that we run into. No one-as has been said earlier, no one's in charge and no one's, therefore, ultimately accountable. And it seems the president's proposal, if without budget control or personnel control, is going to be subjected to pretty much the same outcome in terms of the coordination.
And let me just-maybe it parallels what Senator Shelby just said, but you know, if we could set aside the commission's report, set aside the president's response, what today, if anything, needs to be improved? And what's not working that should or-you know, what should our end goal be if we make any changes in the status quo? And I'll leave that to any of the four of you.
Are we-is it working well enough now that we should, aside from all the publicity and attention and everything else, just let it-let you continue to operate it the way it is today?
MR. BRENNAN: Senator, I think it's certainly moving in the right direction. I think the more fusion of capability and the more integration of capability that we can apply against the targets and the mission of the U.S. government's intelligence community, the better off we're going to be.
That fusion/integration has to take place close to the mission. We have tremendous capability within the U.S. government, across all of the different collection agencies and analytic agencies. What we want to make sure is we put together a framework that really maximizes and leverages those capabilities.
And so that fusion and integration, against that effort, is really going to be able to be a very strong force multiplier for us. And a national counterterrorism center is a way to try to bring it together close to the target as possible.
SEN. DAYTON: Yes, sir. General?
GEN. HUGHES: I'd like to use one word that I think probably would solve a lot of the issues we have talked about and perhaps some that remain. We ought to strive for greater interoperability among us. These disparate organizations have been brought together a great deal now by improved communications and automation, and I think I agree with John Brennan that we're on the right track.
But that goal should remain foremost in our mind, to make us all interoperable, so we don't have different policies, we don't have different capabilities that are somehow disparate and not integrated some way. And that should be our collective goal, in my view.
SEN. DAYTON: My time's up. Madame Chairman, thank you.
SEN. COLLINS: Thank you.
