Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Panel II
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 3, 2004
Location: Washington DC

August 3, 2004 Tuesday
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE PANEL II
SUBJECT: ASSESSING AMERICA'S COUNTERTERRORISM CAPABILITIES; RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 9/11 COMMISSION
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR SUSAN COLLINS (R-ME)
PANEL II WITNESSES: PHILIP ZELIKOW, 9/11 COMMISSION EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR; CHRIS KOJM, 9/11 COMMISSION DEPUTY EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
LOCATION: 216 HART SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D-MN): Thank you, Madame Chairman.
I want to join with others in thanking you for your extensive and exhaustive work. It's been a great service to all us and your country. Thank you very much.
I want to go back to some of the events that you chronicle in the report on September 11th itself, and some of the discrepancies, particularly involving NORAD.
A week after 9/11, NORAD issued a public chronology in response to some of the initial reports that they had failed to defend our domestic airspace during the hijackings. And their chronology, dated September 18th, 2001, stated that the FAA notified NORAD of the second hijacking at 8:43 a.m.; that FAA notified NORAD of the third hijacking at 9:24; FAA notified NORAD of the fourth hijacking at an unspecified time. That prior to the crash in Pennsylvania, Langley F-16 Civil Air Patrol remained-quote-it's a quote, "Langley F-16 Combat Air Patrol remains in place to protect D.C."
And then, in public testimony before your commission, on May of 2003, NORAD officials stated-and I don't know whether this was under oath or not-but that at 9:16 they received hijack notification of United 93 from the FAA. Your report notes that that hijacking did not actually occur until 9:28 a.m., 12 minutes after they said they received that notification. In that testimony also before your commission, NORAD officials stated that at 9:24 they received notice of the hijacking of the third plane, American Flight 77, which your commission report also states as untrue, that NORAD was never notified that that plane was hijacked. And they also testified before your commission that they scrambled the Langley, Virginia, fighters to respond to those two hijackings. Yet the tape remarks, according to your report, have both NORAD and FAA reportedly documented that that order to scramble was in response to an inaccurate FAA report that American Flight 11 had not hit the first World Trade tower and was headed to Washington. And your report notes that that erroneous alert was transmitted by the FAA at 9:24 a.m., 38 minutes after American Flight 11 had in fact exploded into the World Trade tower.
Can you give me any way to reconcile their stated versions and yours?
MR. ZELIKOW: No, sir. We addressed that directly on pages 31 and 34 of the commission report. We did more or less as you have just done-contrasted NORAD and FAA prior statements with the conclusions the commission has reached.
As you may know, sir, in public testimony, which was sworn, officials of both NORAD and FAA have acknowledged that the commission's account of these facts is accurate and their prior accounts were indeed incorrect.
SEN. DAYTON: Did they explain why-how it is that they came to recognize the veracity of yours and the inaccuracy of their own --
MR. ZELIKOW: Sir, we all regard it as a learning process. And I think further questions about the learning process that they're in are directed to those agencies.
SEN. DAYTON: Thank you.
Also, there were various reports based on sources shortly after 9/11 that stated that very shortly after the Pentagon was struck at 9:34, quote, "Pentagon officials ordered up the airborne command post used only in national emergencies." There's a reference in another article to AWACS, a plane being sent up at about that time. Are you aware of an AWACS or airborne command post being sent aloft at that-this is, again, between 9:35 and 10:00 -- because the report doesn't mention one.
MR. ZELIKOW: No, sir. The aircraft you're referring to has to do with continuity of government issues that we chose not to discuss in the report for reasons of classification. We are, however, aware of the aircraft movements you refer to and tracked the movements of that and other relevant aircraft completely. If they had borne in any material way on the 9/11 story, we would have discussed it in our report.
SEN. DAYTON: So is the implication that they were aloft and were organizing a air defense of the United States at that point in time-domestic air defense? Is that --
MR. ZELIKOW: No, sir. That aircraft had nothing to do with organizing American air defense and played no part whatever in the command and control issues that NORAD faced that morning.
SEN. DAYTON: Thank you.
Regarding the 15 agencies, entities of the federal government now engaged in intelligence gathering activities, are there any that you could recommend to us be merged or consolidated?
MR. ZELIKOW: Sir, we did not take on the next issue of whether or not you need all these separate agencies. But we did do this: We did suggest that some of the agencies that are now in the intelligence community actually don't really need to be there. For instance, the State Department's intelligence research bureau should just work for the secretary of State. It should be an intelligence support entity for that department, and it doesn't have to obey the dictates of the intelligence community.
One of the problems we heard about now is sometimes, when you want to obstruct action, you call a meeting with all 15 of the agencies there as a way of inducing sclerosis. We were trying in our recommendation to find a way of simplifying and strengthening the capability-building structure.
SEN. DAYTON: Thank you, Madame Chairman.
SEN. COLLINS: Thank you.
