Public Statements
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 22, 2004
Location: Washington DC

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
SENATE
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2005
AMENDMENT NO. 3197, AS MODIFIED
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be set aside, and I call up my amendment 3197 and ask unanimous consent that my amendment be modified with the changes that are at the desk.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, the modifications are at the desk. We have examined them, and there is no objection.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered. The amendment is modified.
The amendment (No. 3197), as modified, is as follows:
Beginning on page 172, strike line 11 and all that follows through page 176, line 12.
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I thank the chairman for his concurrence.
Mr. President, I want to say at the outset, as I said yesterday, but in the absence of my colleague from Arizona, I have the utmost respect for him and also for those who take a different position on this issue. But I am a little perplexed at the dire consequences that are being asserted if my amendment were to be adopted, because my amendment simply strikes language that is in the bill before the Senate which is itself modifying current law.
My amendment simply takes us back to current law. My amendment simply takes us back to the principles and the policies and the standards and the law in the Buy American Act, which has been in effect in this country for 70 years. So I am astonished that these dire consequences are being asserted on something that has been in existing law for 70 years, that has benefited companies represented by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Defense Industrial Association, that may have certain members that have exported jobs and instead set up bases of operation in other countries, including those affected by this amendment.
So there may be those who have that particular financial interest for their own companies involved, but, overall, as the Senator from Arizona pointed out, national defense and military equipment are areas of our trade where we enjoy a surplus. So it seems evident that the policies and the laws of this country affecting both "Buy American"-which provides exemptions for the Secretary of Defense in just the circumstances that the Senator from Arizona cited: if there are not products available that are of the right quality, if there is a delay in obtaining them, if the prices are not competitive, if there are any factors at all that would harm our ability to provide for our national defense or to supply our fighting men and women who serve us so heroically around the globe-if there were anything at all that were an impediment to them getting the best equipment, getting the most advanced equipment, in a timely basis, at a competitive price, then the Secretary of Defense, under the current law, is entitled and has the authority to make a waiver and grant an exception.
But this "Buy American" law has said-for 70 years, under six Democratic administrations and five Republican administrations, until this administration started to object to it-try to buy American because if you buy American, you strengthen America by supporting American companies producing products in the United States of America, employing American citizens, providing jobs in this country.
It is this administration which seemingly has very little concern about that job base. Given that we have lost, since President Bush took office, in the last 3½ years, over 2½ million manufacturing jobs in this country-that is, 2½ million Americans who were holding those jobs when President Bush took office, who are now without those jobs. Maybe some have found lesser paying service sector jobs, but many of them are unemployed and have been for a long time. Under those circumstances, you would think this administration would be unwilling to adopt any violations of the Buy American Act that would have the consequence of costing more American manufacturing jobs or not recovering some that would otherwise be possible to be recovered for the benefit of American citizens, for the benefit of American companies. But evidently that is not a concern.
I appreciate that Senator McCain has, by his proposed substitute amendment-and I would support that if my own were not successful-reduced the number of countries that are going to be given this special treatment, this special advantage under the existing armed services language-section 842 that I propose to strike-and has stated that the countries that will be given this special exemption are those that have signed statements of principle with the United States rather than memoranda of understanding regarding U.S. purchases from those countries.
I am a little perplexed that the Senator from Arizona cited letters in support of his position from the countries of Canada and the Netherlands because, according to the information I have been provided, those two countries do not have statements of principle signed with the United States, so they would not be included. In fact, they would now be excluded by Senator McCain's proposed substitute amendment. As I understand it, the countries that have signed these statements of principle include Australia, Norway, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Spain, and Italy. I am pleased that the number of countries then that would be exempted from "Buy America" are only 7, as opposed to 21 before, but those are still 7 countries, frankly, that enjoy, on an overall basis, a sizable trade surplus with the United States.
In other words, this country, if you take all goods and services, imports far more products from those countries, buys more products made in those countries than we export to those countries. One of the few exceptions to that is the sale of military equipment. That is to our advantage. That means we are exporting more than we are importing. That means we have more jobs generated in the United States to produce those goods and products than we are importing in return. But on an overall basis, taking all products-commercial, industrial, agricultural, and services-we are paying more money to import goods and services from those countries than we are exporting.
So why are we willing to sacrifice one of the very few sectors in which we enjoy a trade surplus and give that up by agreeing to buy the same amount of product from them as we sell to them in this one sector and then leaving all others aside? If we want to take that approach, if we believe, as those countries do, that these kind of reciprocal agreements are valuable to them, as they are, because they provide jobs in those countries, why don't we make that requirement for everything we import from those countries? Or better yet, why don't we make that agreement for everything we import all over the world? Because as the latest figures show, we are running a world trade deficit that now exceeds on an annual basis $550 billion a year. That is $550 billion that leaves the United States to buy foreign products. Here we are, in one of the few sectors where we enjoy an export surplus, prepared to give that up on the basis of getting contracts or selling products to those countries.
I can understand why those countries who wrote those letters of support would do so because that kind of agreement benefits them. But we are not making laws-or we should not be-and we are not making trade policies-or we should not be-that benefit Canada, the Netherlands, Denmark-with all due respect, important friends and allies as they are-any more than they pass laws or make trade policies that benefit the United States to their own disadvantage. So if they are not prepared to do so, and they should not, why would we do so when we should not?
My goal is not to change current law; my goal is to stay with current law. It is to strike the language in this bill that would create these additional exceptions, that would allow other companies in other countries to gain contracts that are for goods and services that are now produced in the United States by American companies, employing American workers, paying taxes in American communities that benefit our schools, our local governments, our State and Federal Government, but, most importantly, that provide jobs for American citizens, the same as current law. I am not asking for any more protectionism. I am not asking for any more of anything affecting trade policy or trade agreements than exists under current law. I am simply asking my colleagues not to go further.
I ask my colleagues-at a time when we have lost over 2.5 million manufacturing jobs under President Bush and his administration-not to go further, not to cost us more manufacturing jobs, but to take a stand on behalf of those who are working in American industries today, those who want to return jobs to American industries tomorrow. Let's stick with current law. That is what my amendment does.
I yield the floor.
