Public Statements
Cost of Prescription Drugs
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 2, 2004
Location: Washington DC

SENATE
June 2, 2004
COST OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, when I was in Minnesota last week, I read a very disturbing news report about the cost of prescription drugs in this country. The American Association of Retired Persons Public Policy Institute looked at the prices charged by the manufacturers of 197 brand-name prescription drugs most widely purchased by Americans. Last year, their average price increase was 6.9 percent, over three times the overall inflation rate of just 2.2 percent. From December of 1999 to December of 2003, for 155 of those drugs on the market during all 4 years, their prices increased by a cumulative average of 27.6 percent compared to the general inflation rate of just over 10 percent. That is a price increase of over 2.5 times the overall inflation rate during the past 4 years.
It is not as though those drug prices were low at the beginning. Last summer, my staff compared the retail prices of 52 leading prescription drugs in the United States and Canada. For exactly the same drug, same amount, same strength, made by the same company, prices in Canada were one-third, one-fifth, even one-eighth the prices in the United States. That was after factoring out the different values of the U.S. and Canadian dollars. So in an apples-to-apples comparison, prices for the exact same medicines in the United States were three times, five times, even eight times higher than prices in Canada. My study shows that Americans are being gouged by exorbitant prescription drug prices, and AARP's study shows that it is getting worse.
Those excessive and rapidly increasing prices afflict all Americans, not only senior citizens. This year, almost 12 percent of all the money Americans spend for their health care will go for prescription drugs. That is almost one out of every eight health care dollars. Over the past 6 years, prescription drug costs have been the fastest growing part of total health care spending in this country.
So if Americans are getting ripped off by the drug companies, and if the problem is getting worse, then certainly President Bush and Congress would do something about it, right? Well, last year, the President and a majority in the Senate and House did something, but they made things worse, not better. Let me restate that. President Bush and a majority in Congress made sure prescription drug prices could keep going higher and higher and hurt most Americans, which means more money and larger profits for the drug companies. President Bush and his friends in Congress helped the rich get even richer, while making the rest of America poorer.
How did they do that? Well, on the prescription drug bill that was passed last year, the final version that most of my Democratic colleagues and I voted against, Federal health care officials are expressly prohibited from negotiating or in any way affecting the prices being charged for prescription drugs. When prescription drug coverage, inadequate as it will be, fully begins in the year 2006, the people on Medicare will be buying over half of all the prescription drugs purchased in America. Most of those bills will be paid at least in part by the Federal Government with taxpayer money at whatever prices are charged.
Imagine if you had to pay whatever someone else decided to charge you. You couldn't negotiate. You couldn't refuse to pay above a certain price. You would have no say; you would just pay. And you would pay and pay and pay.
No wonder a bill that was supposed to cost taxpayers $400 billion over the next 10 years is already projected to cost over $541 billion, a $141 billion increase, and the program has not even begun yet. I guarantee the program's cost will run even higher than that, as long as that prohibition against price negotiating is in law. It is a license to exploit Americans, all Americans, since all Americans will have to pay those higher prices.
Conversely, if Federal officials negotiated lower prices for Medicare beneficiaries, some, most, or even all of that price reduction would affect the prices the rest of us have to pay for those medicines. Drug company lobbyists and their friends in Washington call this price fixing and claim the Federal Government would destroy profitability, end research and development, and even cause bankruptcies. Nonsense. The Federal Government can't force any vendors to sell their products or services below prices acceptable to them. It can't legally-except in a national emergency-it doesn't try to, and it should not want to.
Take the Pentagon, which is often the only legal buyer of many of its products or services. It doesn't dictatorially set some price and require some company to make a product and sell it at that price. The Pentagon or the service branch purchaser might put the contract out for competitive bids or, if there is only one suitable provider, the Pentagon or military officials would sit down with the company officials and they would negotiate, truly negotiate, a mutually agreed-upon price.
Is that price as high as the company might charge if the company could set the price as high as it would like? No, probably
not. Would the company agree to a price so low as to be unprofitable? No, definitely not. Does the Pentagon even want that low price? No, because if that company doesn't make a profit, it won't be around to keep producing that product or other products.
Those national defense projects frequently require extensive research and development, then testing, then modifications, and then more testing, requiring often several years before the actual production and sales can begin. Those costs-research and development, testing-are made part of the contract, usually paid in advance of production, and often revised upward if unforeseen circumstances develop. The Federal Government is a partner in those endeavors and vested in their positive outcomes while still being, hopefully, a responsible purchaser, assuring that taxpayers get their money's worth.
Would anybody here believe the Pentagon should be prohibited from negotiating the prices it will pay for what it needs, that it should be required to pay whatever prices its suppliers decided to charge? That would be ridiculous and scandalous, as it should also be for prescription drugs.
That part of the new law would be bad enough for most Americans just by itself. But the Bush administration and its congressional allies were not done helping their friends in the pharmaceutical industry. In our economic system, if the price of something becomes too high, you can shop around for a lower price elsewhere.
I come from a retail family. My great-grandfather opened a department store in Minneapolis in 1903. My father and uncles and thousands of Minnesotans and other Americans built the company into Target Corporation, now the country's second largest retailer after Wal-Mart. Retailers, especially discount retailers, understand competition. They expect their customers to be looking for lower prices, better deals, and higher value elsewhere. They don't go to the President or to Congress and say: Make Americans buy from us at whatever prices we charge and prohibit them from buying anywhere else.
That is what the drug companies wanted. That is what President Bush and a majority in Congress gave them. They banned what is being called drug reimportation, which is actually a bit of a misnomer because many prescription drugs are made outside of the United States and then imported into this country. In fact, over $14 billion worth of those prescription drugs were imported legally into the United States last year and sold to us at the manufacturer's prices. Neither the FDA nor the companies objected as long as that massive drug importation was occurring at their high prices. But many Americans objected to paying those prices, and many other Americans couldn't even afford to pay them.
So they want to do what Americans can do in almost every other situation in our economy-shop around for lower prices and buy them where they can find them. Lower prescription drug prices can be found in Canada and in other countries. The prices are much lower in Canada, as I said earlier, for the same product made by the same company.
Some Americans can actually travel to Canada because they live near the United States-Canadian border. I donate all but $1 of my Senate salary to the Minnesota Senior Federation for bus trips into Canada to buy those lower cost medicines.
The Canadian Government allows pharmacists in that country to fill only prescriptions signed by Canadian doctors, and that takes an appointment and time and then more time to get the prescription filled. Thus, when I went on one bus trip from central Minnesota into Canada and back, the entire round trip took us 19 hours-from 7 o'clock in the morning to 2 a.m. the following morning. That is what I call a long U-turn.
The average savings among the 40 seniors who were on the trip was over $250. Almost all of them bought more than one medicine, and most bought a 2 or 3-month supply so they would not have to make the trip so often. However, even a 19-hour round-trip bus ride is not an option for most Minnesotans and other Americans who live too far from Canada and are not able to make such a trip. The Internet is their ticket, and many more Americans are discovering that possibility. They are discovering they can save hundreds, even thousands, of dollars when buying prescription drugs over the Internet. Thus, many Americans-especially our senior citizens-can then afford to buy medicine they would otherwise have to forego at the higher U.S. prices.
You would think our Federal Government-which, after all, is supposed to be a Government of, by, and for the people-you would think the people elected, appointed, or hired to serve the people, and being paid by the people to do so, would want to help the people save lots of money. But, again, that would mean less profits for the drug companies-still very high profits, but less very high profits.
Yet, incredibly, inexcusably, for this administration and the majority in this Congress, higher drug company profits are more important than everyone else in America. So they made it illegal to buy prescription drugs outside the U.S. and bring them into this country, unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services guarantees their safety-which he already said he will not do. If the Secretary of Transportation had to guarantee in advance every commercial airplane trip would be safe, it would put an end to air travel as well.
President Bush and Congress could have written the law to require the Secretary and his huge agency to help people make safe purchases over the Internet, as, to his credit, the Governor of my State of Minnesota, Tim Pawlenty, has instructed our State Department of Health to do. Hopefully, he will not be arrested by the Federal Government for providing that help. If he is, I promised to help him make the bail.
But with this administration and with the majority in this Congress, there is no help for Americans with the overpriced prescription drug costs, except for another drug discount card, which, in Minnesota, is now a choice of 1 out of 48 possible cards for a discount on some drugs we now learn from AARP have increased a total of over 27 percent in price over the last 4 years, which means they can offer a discount and still make more money.
When this bill was passed by a majority in the House and Senate last year, after the Bush administration and the industry lobbyists had written a bill in conference committee so very different from the earlier Senate version-which I supported-I was left with two questions:
First, how could people vote for a bill they knew did not represent their constituents' best interests? Secondly, how did they assume they could do so and still get reelected?
Americans don't deserve the highest, by far, prescription drug prices in the world-allowed to go even higher and higher. Americans should not be forced to pay those exorbitant prices and be prohibited from buying their medicines at much lower prices elsewhere. America's senior citizens don't need another 48 discount cards to choose from. They all need, and deserve, to be able to go to their neighborhood pharmacies everywhere in their country and buy prescription medicines at prices comparable to the rest of the world.
That is what governments of other countries assure for their citizens. That is what our Government should do for our citizens. When Government officials don't serve the best interests of the people, they should no longer be Government officials. That is why we have elections.
I yield the floor.
