Public Statements
Transportation Funding
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 14, 2004
Location: Washington DC

TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, this week brought the disturbing news that the Senate, the House, and the White House might not be able to agree on a new transportation funding bill, that we would have to set it aside then until next year to be acted upon. That would be disastrous for my home State of Minnesota, and I suspect for many of the States my colleagues represent.
Traffic congestion in our main metropolitan areas in Minnesota has worsened at alarming rates during the past decade. The deterioration of our roads, highways, and bridges throughout greater Minnesota, more rural areas of our State, has also reached crisis levels. More and more of our highways have become unsafe due to this deterioration and congestion.
More motorists are dying, being injured or maimed as a result. Business owners and farmers find that transporting their goods and products to market takes longer and is more costly. Some of the seasonal national weight restrictions force major employers such as Polaris, Artic Cat, and Marvin Windows, which are located in northwestern Minnesota, to have to reroute their trucks, adding time, expense, and unreliability that become major drawbacks to operating a business in Minnesota.
Businesses executives, their employees and their families, have to take longer to drive to and from work, school, and weekend cabins, and they are less safe in doing so. Every day and night, many thousands of Minnesotans endure these delays and disruptions. They are angry and frustrated, and they rightfully want their Government to act on their behalf now. They have paid and they will continue to pay their Federal gasoline tax dollars into the highway trust fund, and they want that money fully expended on vitally needed highway improvement projects starting now.
[Page S5496]
Our Senate bill, the one we passed some time ago, responded to their needs. Our bill increased the highway and transit funding significantly over the next 6 years compared to the last 6 years. For my State of Minnesota, the increase is 81 percent, thanks to the overall increase which was passed with bipartisan support at the committee and the full Senate level, and with special appreciation to Senator Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, for correcting the ethanol penalty which was penalizing Minnesota and other States that placed a mandate on ethanol consumption as part of every gallon of gasoline.
Senator Coleman, my colleague from Minnesota, and I worked together to keep these provisions benefiting Minnesota in the Senate bill. Unfortunately, the House scaled back their overall bill from what even most of their Members wanted themselves, at the insistence of the White House. But the President said even that reduced level in the House bill is too high, and the Senate's version is too high a figure. In fact, the President set a level of funding that is $60 billion less than in our Senate bill. That is $10 billion a year less for highway and other transit projects throughout America.
We are told that every $1 billion of spending on transportation projects creates 47,500 jobs. So $10 billion a year less spending means 475,000 fewer jobs this summer, next summer, and throughout the next 6 years-475,000 jobs, American jobs, jobs that we could be putting into place right now. People in my State and your State would be going to work right now to perform vitally needed infrastructure improvement projects with dollars that have already been committed and received and are set aside for this purpose. Why doesn't that matter to the White House? Why can't we act as we should anyway to move this matter forward?
The President has his rightful prerogative to veto a bill with which he does not agree. I am told by the manager of the bill in the Senate that he believes we have the votes to override that veto because these projects are so important to so many Members, and rightfully so. He believes the House has the necessary votes to override a Presidential veto because the projects in the bill are vitally important to their districts. That is the way the system is supposed to work. If the President vetoes, we can attempt to override so the public interest is served.
From what I am reading this week, the majority leader and the Speaker of the House have said they will not take the conference committee report, the final legislation, to the White House if the President is going to veto it. That means the President can dictate to the Congress the level of funding he will accept, and we have no choice but either to agree to that reduced level or to set the bill aside until next year.
That is not the way the process is supposed to work, if we believe in something-and we do. I commend Senator Inhofe, the manager of the bill, who has been tenacious and terrific at standing up for the needs of, I am sure, the State of Oklahoma, but also reflective of the urgent needs in my State of Minnesota and elsewhere, and saying this is the right thing to do.
On paper this may look like it is some kind of brand new fiscal responsibility that we certainly have not seen from the White House in the last 3½ years, with budget deficits extending now as far as the eye can see at record levels. But this is the wrong bill to sort of suddenly get fiscal religion and go on to make a spectacle of because these are capital expenditures that are going to benefit our country for an extended period of time, and as business owners, farm owners, homeowners know, the proper reason to go into debt is for capital expenditures for long-term improvements. If you are going to be fiscally prudent, then you pay cash for current consumption.
We have it backward. We are creating enormous deficits based on current consumption, and then when we get to a bill where we should legitimately be incurring debt, if we need to, for long-term capital expenditures, we are going in the other direction-for politics, for reelection politics, not for the public interest. We know that. I bet the Speaker knows that. Certainly the members in his caucus know that.
We need to stand up and speak out and insist that our voices be heard, that our proffer of responsibilities in this body on behalf of the people of our States be exercised. Our leader and the House leader should take this bill to conference and protect all the projects that are of concern to myself and members of my caucus-as the projects of importance to the members of the majority caucus will be, I am sure, protected, as they should be, just as is the tradition in the House. Writing those into the actual House bill will, I am told, ensure they will be protected, honored, for both the Republican and Democratic Members. That is the way the system has worked, I am told, in the past.
Frankly, I think we should dispense with all of those earmarked projects which benefit some States far more than others-more than my State-because of the way the memberships on committees and seniority falls, but that is a discussion for another day.
Given that is the system we have, I certainly understand why I and my colleagues on this side of the aisle need to and should have the right to assurances that our projects are going to be treated as they have been in the past and not just discarded in the committee, as so many of our amendments and proposals have been in other legislation earlier this year and last year.
But that is something that can readily be resolved. That is a very minor consideration compared to what, I am told, is the real obstacle right now, and that is to get the leadership of the Senate and the House to be willing to take a bill to the President that we say is the right thing to do. We know what that is. It is what our Senate bill provided overall and for our respective States. It is a fiscally responsible bill because it uses every dollar in the highway trust fund over the next 6 years-not more than that, not less than that. We know our States need those expenditures.
Let the President veto the bill if that is his decision. Then let's override it here and in the House and then it becomes law. Then those 475,000 Americans who are either drawing unemployment benefits-or many of them, I believe, have probably exhausted their unemployment benefits; just this week we found the Senate unwilling to provide an extension of those benefits-can go back to work in construction jobs and related jobs.
This bill more than anything we have done in tax adjustments will put Americans to work-now, this summer, right away-when they need work. We can't turn our back on that opportunity and that responsibility. Let's make the system work the way it is supposed to work. Let's pass this bill. Let's get it to the White House. Let's take it back and do what is necessary to make it law.
I yield the floor.
