Public Statements
Lawmkers View New Photos from Abu Gharib Prison
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 12, 2004
Location: Washington DC

May 12, 2004 Wednesday
Transcript # 051201CN.V67
HEADLINE: Lawmakers View New Photos from Abu Ghraib Prison. Lynndie England Speaks Out. Why was Nicholas Berg in U.S. Custody in Iraq?
GUESTS: Kay Bailey Hutchinson, Mark Dayton, Jim Lehrer
BYLINE: Wolf Blitzer, Maria Hinojosa, Tom Foreman, Matthew Chance, Brian Todd
HIGHLIGHT:
Lawmakers View New Photos from Abu Ghraib Prison. Lynndie England Speaks Out. Why was Nicholas Berg in U.S. Custody in Iraq?
BLITZER: Senator Dayton, let me bring you into this conversation. What went through your mind? What did you see?
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D), MINNESOTA: They are terrible pictures. Very grotesque, obscene, some pornographic. I just wish no Americans had been associated with them.
BLITZER: Senator Dayton, were these pictures worse than what the public has already seen?
DAYTON: I think they are worse and more graphic depictions of those acts. I don't think there's anything in my judgment that would not be better off to be disclosed to people rather than hidden and imagined.
BLITZER: Did you see U.S. military personnel or American civilian contractors, new people, in these pictures, people that we have not seen in the earlier publicly released photos?
DAYTON: It's hard to tell. I didn't look closely enough at all the faces. They were running through these in sequence. I saw some of the same faces over and over, seemed to be the same prison and essentially the same personnel. I can't say they were exactly the same.
BLITZER: Were there videotapes, as well?
DAYTON: There were video, very poor quality and very dark. It was very hard to pick out the individuals involved in the videos. They were of the same genre as the still photos.
BLITZER: What did you see in the videos?
DAYTON: Iraqi prisoners being abused.
BLITZER: Can you get into more specific detail?
DAYTON: I think given the legal complexities-I'm not a lawyer-surrounding these, the fact they haven't been released by the Pentagon that's the best I can say.
BLITZER: Senator Hutchinson, do you think the pictures should now be made public?
HUTCHINSON: The pictures are not in our custody. They are at the Pentagon. The Pentagon is, I think, doing a thorough investigation and they want to pursue justice for the people who have stained our honor many ways. And I think if the pictures being released would in any way jeopardize their ability to prosecute these people, that they should be able to use their judgment and not release them.
Also, there are privacy concerns. While some of these prisoners were, I'm sure, people who have perpetrated crimes against America, not necessarily all of them were. We found out that probably up to 90 percent of the prisoners who are taken are released. And some of them have done nothing. Some have done something, but there are issues of concern about the prisoners themselves and their privacy, as well. So I think we have to let the Department of Defense make a good judgment about what the intelligence, what the prosecution, needs in order to make the final decision about what is let out and what isn't. I think they will probably let some of these pictures out. The ones that are relevant to a prosecution, I think may be withheld.
BLITZER: What about that, Senator Dayton. What do you think? Should the Pentagon, the Bush administration let the American public see these pictures?
DAYTON: I think any form of censorship, military or governmental is antithetical against democracy. Within the parameters of what's absolutely cannot be shown for legal reasons I think they all should be disclosed. I think the sooner we get this out fully disclosed, the better to get it over and hopefully never see it again.
BLITZER: Are you at all concerned, Senator Dayton that more of these pictures could endanger American personnel in Iraq or elsewhere around the world? I say that because in this videotape of the killing of Nicholas Berg, those who killed him, those terrorists say they were doing it as revenge for the pictures shown, the prisoner abuse at Abu Ghraib prison.
DAYTON: I have seen that execution on the video and there's nothing that justifies that kind of brutal cold-blooded murder. We know al Qaeda will use any pretext. That's not about the United States, that's about their own fanaticism and perversion. I worry for our 134,000 troops that are over there who may bear the brunt of any further revenge motives. I think that we need to assess realistically as a nation and Congress with the administration what is the situation there now, with the Iraqi attitudes the way they are given the reality of what occurred. What is our game plan there? How long are we going to keep forces there? What are their objectives and how can we bring them back safely and quickly as possible with their mission accomplished.
BLITZER: Senator Dayton, I know you have seen the video of the beheading of Nick Berg. Obviously that is so much more gruesome than anything you saw today behind closed doors. Isn't that right?
DAYTON: That's correct. That is just one of the worst atrocities I have ever witnessed. Just that any human being could perpetrate that on any human being. A defenseless man, civilian, somebody who is bound and surrounded. Despicable beyond my own ability to comprehend.
BLITZER: Senator Hutchinson, do you believe the beheading of Nick Berg should affect the decision whether or not the U.S. government releases these additional pictures that you saw today including the videotape?
HUTCHINSON: I don't think the beheading of Mr. Berg should have an impact on it, but I do think the inflammatory nature of these pictures should be a consideration. As we look at the other 130,000 troops that we have over there and our allies. Our troops, you know, we've heard from our troops. They are devastated by this, as well, because they are getting such good response in so many areas in their dealings with the Iraqi people. And this draws a curtain that is so unnecessary. So I do think that should be a consideration.
BLITZER: Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson, Senator Mark Dayton, thanks for joining us.
