Public Statements
Iraq Prisoner Atrocities
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 5, 2004
Location: Washington DC

IRAQ PRISONER ATROCITIES
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I was present for the concluding remarks of the majority leader regarding the atrocities committed in Iraq against the prisoners there. I certainly share his sentiments. A number of my colleagues have spoken today from both sides of the aisle expressing their horror, their outrage, and their deep regret. I join with them as well.
I also am deeply disturbed as a Senator and as a Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee at the lack of communication from the military and the civilian command to those Members of the Senate about these incidents-in fact, right up to the moment they were disclosed to the American people through, fortunately, a free and vigilant press.
According to the information I have been able to obtain, a copy of the most recently referenced classified internal military report, and other news reports about that and other information, many of these incidents that have been under investigation occurred last October, last November-in other words, over half a year ago. They are horrible events. The report said that Iraqi prisoners had been victims of sadistic, blatant, and wanton criminal abuses. They were beaten with broom handles and chairs and threatened with rape. One prisoner was sodomized with a chemical light stick or with a broomstick. Military dogs were also used to frighten and intimidate detainees. One graphic description in the New York Times today talks about the experience of a particular Iraqi male, the deep humiliation and shame he still feels, the utter degradation, the sadistic and disgusting abuse of him night after night by his American captors.
I agree with the remarks of the majority leader that these people carrying out these terrible deeds were few in number, but tragically their impact is enormous. They are going to make life a lot more difficult and a lot more dangerous for the 134,000 incredibly brave, patriotic Americans who are over there putting their lives on the line every day and night.
A story in the New York Times gives a sense of how this is affecting the way the United States is viewed in the Arab world, saying in the Arab world and beyond, the tormenting of Iraqi prisoners by their American guards shredded already thin support for Washington's invasion of Iraq and its vow to install democratic values and respect for human rights.
