Public Statements
Jumpstart our Business Strength (Jobs) Act
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 5, 2004
Location: Washington DC

JUMPSTART OUR BUSINESS STRENGTH (JOBS) ACT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I certainly support the statement of the distinguished Senator from Nevada.
AMENDMENT NO. 3112
Mr. President, we are referring to the JOBS Act, and to Senator Graham's excellent amendment. I am very proud to be a cosponsor and to have this opportunity to speak on behalf of the Graham-Dayton amendment. As Senator Graham pointed out to our colleagues, this bill is called the JOBS Act. In fact, in the House, they call it the American JOBS Act because, as we all know, we are missing a lot of jobs in America today. Over 8 million Americans are out of work. Many have exhausted their unemployment benefits because they cannot find work anywhere.
This amendment offered by Senator Graham would make the bill live up to its name. You could call it the "Put the Jobs Into the JOBS Act" amendment. It also would put the truth into that title. Because the truth now is most of this bill has nothing to do with providing jobs-at least not American jobs. It provides additional tax cuts to already profitable corporations, whether they provide jobs or not.
According to a recent Washington Post article on the bill, it is:
One of the most complex, special-interest riddled corporate tax bills in years, lawmakers, Senate aides, and tax lobbyists say. The 930 page epic is packed with $170 billion in tax cuts aimed at cruise ship operators, foreign dog-race gamblers, NASCAR track owners, bow-and-arrow makers, and Oldsmobile dealers, to name a few.
Continuing on to quote the article:
Even one of the tax lobbyists involved in drafting it conceded that the bill "has risen to a new level of sleaze."
I think that is quite instructive in its statement: "even one of the tax lobbyists involved in drafting it." I am not on the Senate Finance Committee. I am told that committee, as the Appropriations Committee, requires many years of seniority before someone can gain access to it, so I don't know what goes on in the drafting of legislation. But when the article says tax lobbyists were involved in drafting the bill that is before us or, as my colleague Senator Graham said, drafting the additions to this bill that are not before us, that are in the so-called managers' amendments which are not disclosed to those of us voting, which are not disclosed to the American people, then there is something pretty putrid in that process.
In fact, the provisions the article mentions, questionable as they are, are not even the worst provisions in the legislation. This bill contains over $39 billion worth of tax advantages to American businesses and investors for their foreign operations. At a time when we say we are concerned about losing American jobs to foreign businesses,-and we should be concerned; we should be alarmed-this bill would make it more profitable and thus more appealing to expand foreign businesses instead of ones in the United States. Why in the world would we want to do that? Most of these provisions are rich man's tax avoidance games and gimmicks.
For example, U.S. businesses or individuals can claim a tax credit under U.S. taxes equal to any foreign taxes they have paid. A tax credit is a dollar-for-dollar reduction in the amount of the tax that is owed. So this arrangement means the U.S. Treasury gets paid last. If some company here owes the French Government $100 in taxes and the U.S. Government $150 in taxes, the company pays the French Government the $100 it owes and it only pays the U.S. Government $50. If foreign taxes were treated as a business expense, like any other cost of doing business, the loss to the U.S. Treasury would be far less severe. But this bill goes even further in the other direction. This would allow the company or business or the individual to be able to use those foreign tax credits for 20 years into the future in order to reduce their future U.S. taxes owed.
Most U.S. citizens can't do that. A farmer with additional revenues, profits in a good year, a salesman with high sales and, therefore, high commissions has to pay higher taxes on his or her income for that year. They can't finagle their incomes and expenses over the next 20 years to lower their tax liabilities. As I said, these are rich man's games and gimmicks.
The other foreign tax breaks are pretty much the same. They are just more ways to avoid paying U.S. taxes owed on U.S. profits or income, more special treatment for businesses in other countries, employing workers in those other countries, jobs, many of which used to be here in this country for American workers. We are going to reward those actions even more than we have already, at a cost of $39 billion to the U.S. Treasury over the next 10 years, at a time when the Federal Government is running annual deficits of over $500 billion.
This bill purports to be revenue neutral. In other words, the tax increases equal or offset the tax reductions. Well, yes and no. As usual around here, with all the smart Members and staffs, and I guess the tax lobbyists who write their special interest tax cuts into the bill, some curious revenue increases are cited. Some are actually good public policy-the elimination of tax shelters, offshore and domestic-some are questionable. Some of the so-called revenue gains are simply downright curious.
For example, over $17 billion of revenue gains is cited from extending customs user fees over the next 10 years. That is something we obviously should do and will do. There are existing fees now, and we will extend them over the life of the 10 years that this is scored for budget purposes. We haven't done it yet. But that is a continuation of the status quo; yet that is being counted as if it were new tax revenue for the purposes of this bill to offset some of these new tax breaks for foreign subsidiaries and operations.
We are adding vaccines for hepatitis A to the list of taxable vaccines, $87 million over 10 years. I don't myself understand the reason for that.
We are limiting charitable contributions of "patents or similar property" to their cost basis to the donor. "Similar property" is open to interpretation, but it requires some kind of fairly broad interpretation because the revenue gains expected over the decade are $4 billion. These are charitable contributions. So if an artist, for example, paints a painting, a well-known artist, the cost basis of that actual picture-the materials, the canvas and the paints and the like-the actual cost of it is quite low. The value of it might be worth tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, even millions of dollars. The cost basis, if it is just the materials, is going to be a huge disincentive for people who are in that situation to donate their creations, patents to nonprofit charitable organizations. We are going to gain $4 billion from doing that.
Another of the revenue gains repeals the 10 percent rehabilitation credit for nonhistoric buildings. That is going to generate $1 billion in revenues. In Minnesota, there aren't many buildings old enough to be "historic," but rehabilitation of other buildings that are dilapidated is certainly a worthwhile public purpose. Yet we are incorporating these kinds of tax increases to offset tax breaks we are providing for foreign business operations. That doesn't make any sense to me at all.
Senator Graham has discussed very well-and I won't repeat his comments-the advantages of this amendment over the existing bill for creating American jobs, jobs in the United States for American workers. That is what we need. That is what the bill purports to be. That is what we ought to be doing.
This bill, as it relates to domestic manufacturers, is a general tax reduction. It requires them to do nothing in return. That is a lot better than providing tax breaks to foreign operations and subsidiaries and the investors in them, but it is not good enough. American businesses reported record profits in the fourth quarter of last year, $76 billion in the quarter, above the previous record profits of $70 billion in the third quarter of last year. Overall corporate profits were up 20 percent last year from the year before. Now we are coming out of a recession.
That is great news for America. That is not uniform across the board, but that shows a very healthy profit picture for most American businesses and one that, unfortunately, has not translated into the job increases we would expect to see, given that kind of profitability and coming out of a recession and employment contraction. That is what this bill should be focused on.
That is what the Graham amendment does, which is why I am glad to be a cosponsor. It provides incentive and a reward for providing American jobs. If do you that, you get the benefit. If you don't do that, you don't get the benefit because you don't need it right now.
Between 1996 and 2000, 71 percent of the foreign companies doing business in the United States reported no U.S. tax liability at all. Sixty-one percent of U.S.-controlled corporations during that time, those 5 years from 1996 to 2000, also reported no U.S. tax liability.
In the year 2000, 82 percent of large U.S. corporations reported a U.S. tax liability of less than 5 percent of their income; 76 percent of large foreign-controlled companies reported U.S. tax liability of less than 5 percent of their income. These large corporations are not overtaxed. Some of them are not taxed at all. Now, with these foreign credits that extend forward for 20 years, not only will they not pay taxes, they will be owed rebates.
This has to be the theater of the absurd. We are giving away tax revenues for outyears-especially from 2008 to 2013, which is where this bill is backloaded-that we don't have, that we are going to be short of to do the things we have committed to do, that will add up and extend beyond that to a point in time that it will add to the crisis we are going to face in the following decade fiscally. We are doing all that for no reason whatsoever, except that someone said the tax lobbyists have had their field day and they got this riddled into the bill.
We are trying to get it out so it can be put to use for the American workers, and especially those who want to be American workers, who don't have jobs and have paid taxes on what they have earned, whatever amount that may be, and are looking for a job and will pay taxes on that. We should not be getting into more tax avoidance schemes to send jobs overseas. That is what the Graham amendment would prevent.
I yield the floor.
