Public Statements
Iraq
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 7, 2004
Location: Washington DC

IRAQ
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I want to take this opportunity to concur with the sentiments that have been expressed earlier by a couple of my colleagues regarding the heroism of our Armed Forces in Iraq. However, I also want to point out our proper admiration for their extraordinary patriotism and courage and our sad but necessary condolences to the families of those Americans who are still losing their lives in increasing numbers in Iraq or who are suffering serious life-threatening and lifelong disabling injuries from those battles, those appropriate tributes and condolences and our unanimous bipartisan support in this body for our troops-who continue to risk their lives there and in Afghanistan and Bosnia and Kosovo-should not prevent us from questioning the Bush administration's policies or lack of policies which are exposing those courageous Americans to those continuing attacks and ask what are the administration's plans to respond to the present escalation of attacks in Iraq. What are the administration's plans to bring all of our courageous men and women home with their victory secured?
In fact, we owe it to them, those whose lives are on the line on our behalf, whose families are enduring every day and night the fear it could be their loved one who will be next to give up his or her life in the service of their country or their bodies, we owe it to them, those serving, and to their families to ask the hard questions of the administration and not hide behind platitudes.
I am, for one, tired of sitting in secret and top-secret briefings, either as a Member of this Senate or as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and being told how well everything is going over in Iraq, given the chorus line again and again, just to find out, often the next day, that that is not true.
Last Tuesday a week ago, late afternoon, then Wednesday morning in Iraq, I was given those same kind of assurances by representatives of the highest level of the administration, the Department of Defense, and our military officials. Hours later, American contractors were ambushed in Iraq and bodies mutilated and displayed in obscene ways in that country. And hours after that, American marines were attacked and, in fact, were surprised, so that if it had not been for the intervention of U.S. commandoes, private security forces, even worse casualties could have occurred.
In the next few days, the escalating attacks in Iraq have caused the largest number of Americans to be killed of any time in this last year since the war began. It seems clear, based on the information I have been provided, that our military intelligence was unable to anticipate those attacks or to forewarn our Armed Forces of their imminence, their severity, which also resulted in additional casualties.
I am deeply troubled by reports in the press that the administration has been intentionally trying to downplay the seriousness of those insurrections. Last Wednesday, as Americans were being mutilated, the only public event on the President's schedule was a meeting with members of the Baseball Hall of Fame. That night, he conducted a fundraiser for his reelection. Last Monday, as other Americans were losing their lives, including a Minnesota soldier who was 19 years old, from Moose Lake, MN, giving his life in Iraq, the President threw out the opening pitch at the baseball game in St. Louis, MO. That night, he held another fundraiser for his reelection that raised $1.5 million. Then he flew on to, according to reports, his ranch in Crawford, TX, for the rest of the week.
I don't think you can downplay, or should try to downplay, the seriousness of these attacks. I think we should face the realities that are occurring, and the Congress and the American people should be told what is happening, why it is happening, and how it is we are going to respond to these atrocities without any greater loss of American life. That is absolutely essential. We are heading to a weekend of great religious significance, following a weekend of great religious significance to many of our citizens, and at this time what we are doing there is something that is deeply troubling to this Senator, as I know it is to many of the people I represent in Minnesota. We want to see a victory there. We want to see the sacrifices that have been made by American troops justified, and we want it preserved as a victory that will last. But we want to know from this administration what the plan is, what the timetable is, what is going to happen, and what we are doing to forestall these events and warn our forces so they are not ambushed or caught unaware and lose their lives.
We in Congress deserve to get the facts and the truth. Starting tomorrow morning, when we have a briefing from the Secretary of Defense and others in the military command, it is time to give us the facts, the truth, the real situation, and not put on any whitewash or window dressings but to tell us what we as elected representatives of the people of this country have a right to know, and what the people of America have a right to know. What is happening? Why is it becoming more severe? What are the consequences to the troops? And what are the administration's intentions to deal with them?
I yield the floor.
