Public Statements
Safe Act
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 7, 2004
Location: Washington DC

SAFE ACT
Mr. DAYTON. Thank you, Madam President. I will speak to that motion, please.
Madam President, today, we voted actually a second time on that motion to invoke cloture to recommit this pending bill to the Finance Committee-a vote that failed. So, in other words, we essentially voted not to recommit the bill to the committee of origin.
I emphasize that fact because in my State of Minnesota Democrats are being accused of blocking action on this bill. That simply is not true. We are ready and willing to act on this legislation right now, in fact, as we were last week before it was pulled off the floor by the Republican leader.
So people watching might ask themselves, why was it pulled back then? Why have we been faced with these repeated attempts to send the bill back to committee? The reason is because the Republican caucus does not want to have to vote on the pending amendment, which is the Harkin amendment, which would protect the rights to overtime pay for some 8 million Americans-police officers, firefighters, nurses, laborers; hard-working Americans who want to continue to receive overtime pay when they work their extra hours, whether it be for the sake of public safety, whether it is needed to fill shifts on hospital wards in order to keep them open to patients, or whether it is in order to earn extra income to improve their own lives and the lives of their families.
These 8 million Americans are not asking for any special favors, such as are provided in the underlying bill. They are not trying to get special tax breaks or avoid paying taxes on their foreign income, as are the beneficiaries of the underlying bill. They simply want to be able to earn the American dream, by working harder, by working longer hours, paying their taxes but then coming out ahead because of the overtime provisions.
But this administration has said no, the same administration that wants to eliminate taxes on so-called unearned income, dividend income. They settled for cutting the rate in half but wanted to eliminate it initially. In other words, they want to make not working more lucrative and also want to make working harder less lucrative.
Now, what kind of family value is that? You work more and you earn less because the Bush administration cares more about the corporations that want to add to their profits by paying their workers less money. That is why they moved millions of American jobs overseas. That is why they have eliminated millions of American jobs.
Madam President, 8.5 million of our fellow Americans are out of a job today. And now these same corporations, which have, by the way, been enjoying record high-profit increases in each of the last 2 years, want to make even more money by paying less money to the people who are still working. And the administration is going to help them do it.
In fact, the Secretary of Labor unilaterally, by herself, revoked the overtime benefit protections for 8 million Americans. We, their elected representatives, are not even being allowed to vote on that matter to express our approval or disapproval-in this case, my strong disapproval-of that revocation of their overtime benefit protections.
Why not? Why can't we vote on protecting 8 million American workers? Well, the Republican Conference leader said: Where is the discernible gain to our Members from voting on this and other Democratic amendments?
I don't know about the gain to colleagues who don't want to support overtime pay, but I will tell you about the gain or the loss to those 8 million American workers, depending on whether this measure passes or fails.
That is their overtime pay that has been taken away by the unilateral action of the Secretary of Labor. That is their earned income that has been taken away. That is their new home, their college education, family vacation, prescription drugs they need to buy for elderly relatives.
We in the U.S. Senate are being denied even the right to vote because it is politically inconvenient for some of the Republican caucus.
There is also a huge gain or loss for millions of other Americans who are out of work by the fate of another Democratic amendment to extend unemployment benefits to the 1.1 million Americans who have exhausted theirs at the present time. That number includes an estimated 20,000 of my fellow Minnesotans. They are also hard-working men and women who, through no fault of their own, lost their jobs and have been looking for work and unable to find it in the terrible jobs climate of the last couple years.
Two-thirds of those out-of-work adults have children. An estimated 622,000 children are affected in those families that have exhausted their unemployment benefits. When that happens, it is estimated that over two-thirds of those families lose their health coverage, so the children do not have health care coverage any longer. Over half those families, it is estimated, fall below the poverty level as a result of losing their unemployment benefits. It is unbelievably heartless and cruel to deny them this extension. Yet again we are unable to get a vote in the Senate on extending unemployment benefits to those Americans.
Since we are unable to get these votes on our amendments to this JOBS Act, you might ask yourself, what is so precious about this bill, what is so perfect about it that the leader is denying us a chance to change it in any way? You would naturally assume that because it is called the JOBS bill, it is about actually providing jobs to fellow Americans, but that is not the case.
This is about providing $114 billion in tax breaks to large and mostly profitable American corporations, to very wealthy American investors. Thirty-nine billion of these tax breaks would go to their foreign business operations to allow them to reduce taxes paid in this country on foreign profits, to allow them to postpone the payment on earned income abroad; in other words, to provide them with additional tax breaks for expanding their foreign business operations and providing jobs overseas.
Some of those jobs might in fact be American jobs taken away from people in this country and sent elsewhere or they might be jobs that are going to be created through an expanded business operation that could have been created here in the United States except for the advantages of doing so elsewhere-meaning again that foreign workers get those jobs rather than Americans at a time when we have 8.5 million Americans who are out of work and another million and a half Americans who are so-called marginally attached to the labor force, who have given up looking for work, and another 4.5 million Americans who are working part time not by choice but because it is the only work they can find.
In other words, over 10 percent of our workforce is either unemployed or underemployed right now, and we are providing foreign tax breaks worth $39 billion, additional foreign tax breaks, in this measure to these companies or to the investors in them.
I will have an amendment I will offer that would address this matter and take these foreign tax breaks out of the bill, because if we are going to provide tax incentives, as other parts of the bill do, let's at least provide those incentives to American companies for producing jobs in the United States. Let's tie every single one of the tax advantages in this legislation to the provision of new jobs, ideally manufacturing jobs but provable new or additional jobs in the United States to Americans now, not as the measure provides for tax breaks that are going to accelerate in the years 2009 to 2012. Those are not going to result in the creation of new jobs in this country now. We are giving tax advantages to companies, some of which can certainly benefit from it, but many have been part of the 20-percent increases in corporate profitability in each of the last 2 years.
I am glad American corporations are profitable. We need them to be profitable in order to create jobs. But the fact is that at least in the manufacturing sector-and up until now in just about any other sector-improved profitability has not resulted in new job creation in the last couple of years. It didn't result in new job creation last month. So if we are going to provide tax reductions for U.S. manufacturing companies or anyone else, let's make darn sure those reductions are going to result in jobs, the creation of new jobs or the adding of jobs where formerly people had been laid off or cut back. Let's translate those tax breaks into what this bill calls itself, a JOBS Act, jobs for Americans.
Finally, I want to address the fact that as part of this gambit today to supposedly recommit the bill to the committee where it already was referred out, one of the ways in which we were supposedly going to be induced to do so was some part of the former Energy bill, we were told, was going to be added to the bill that reappeared out of the Finance Committee. I appreciate very much the work that has been done by that committee, in particular by Chairman Grassley of Iowa, who has been stalwart in terms of providing additional tax incentives for energy production, particularly the biofuels, ethanol, and biodiesel fuels. He was instrumental also in changing the formula on the highway trust fund that penalized States such as Minnesota for their ethanol consumption. I would like to join with the majority leader and others who would like to advance this Energy legislation forward.
Since the bill was not recommitted to the Finance Committee, I have drafted an amendment I intend to introduce to add some of the energy provisions to the pending bill, ones that would reinstate the renewable fuels standard Senator Daschle, the Democratic leader, was instrumental in adding and keeping through the conference committee a year ago, legislation to expand the American consumption of ethanol and biodiesel fuels over the next 10 years, the electric reliability section, which is beneficial to smaller utilities throughout Minnesota and elsewhere in the Nation, and then the package of tax incentives which Chairman Grassley, ranking member BAUCUS, and others voted out of the Senate Finance Committee that provide alternative fuel incentives, the small ethanol producer tax credit, the tradability of these credits by those co-ops and others that otherwise can't take advantage of them, the tax credit for biodiesel that parallels the credit provided for ethanol production.
These are important measures that would do what the bill itself purports to do, which is to add jobs and provide enormous economic benefits to a State such as Minnesota, to farmers in terms of income, to the production plants for ethanol and biodiesel fuels.
Those are real jobs amendments, real jobs provisions, those that are going to provide tax credits for business activities, those that are going to result directly in additional jobs for America and in an alternative fuel for America that can reduce our dependence on foreign oil; that can take some of the $115 billion a year we send out of the country to foreign countries such as Saudi Arabia and elsewhere to import foreign oil into this country; $115 billion that, if it were going into the pockets of American farmers and multiplying those dollars throughout communities, would result in an economic revitalization of rural America the likes of which we have not seen in decades and which we couldn't create any other way, not through all the Government programs you want to imagine, just through the free market, through increased profitability for American agriculture, through the creation of cleaner burning fuels that are available right now and could be produced right now in quantities to significantly replace the gasoline that is consumed all over this country.
That is a real jobs amendment, one I will be introducing and hope we can consider as part of the JOBS Act, so we can make that bill live up to its name, one that will actually provide jobs for Americans rather than corporate tax giveaways for those who don't need them.
I yield the floor.
