Public Statements
Jumpstart our Business Strength (JOBS) Act - Resumed
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 7, 2004
Location: Washington DC

JUMPSTART OUR BUSINESS STRENGTH (JOBS) ACT-RESUMED
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I congratulate my colleague on the success of his two teams, both of which were truly outstanding. I particularly commend his women's basketball team because before their showdown with Tennessee, they beat an outstanding team from the University of Minnesota, which reached the semifinals and the final four for the first time in the team's history and was lead by two outstanding players, Lindsay Whalen from Minnesota and Janel McCarville from the neighboring State of Wisconsin, but we have adopted her as a Minnesotan now, and the two of them have achieved the distinction of being Kodak all-Americans. They led the team, which gave us enormous pride in Minnesota, until they met an outstanding Connecticut team. And they had an excellent game on Sunday night, which, unfortunately, from our standpoint, went Connecticut's way. But the Senator certainly has two teams of which to be very proud.
I also might note, as the Senator from Connecticut knows because we have had the occasion to be at the White House together, President Bush has very graciously the last years that I have been there invited the winners of the women's and men's basketball championships and the winners of the men's and women's hockey national championships to the White House for a ceremony.
I am pleased to say I will be joining the Senator from Connecticut again this year because the University of Minnesota women's hockey team won the national championship the weekend before and, in fact, the University of Minnesota-Duluth men's hockey team is in the chosen four which begins this Thursday night. So I am very hopeful we will have only Senators from two States attending that ceremony from Connecticut in basketball and Minnesota in hockey. But in either event, thanks to the outstanding performance of the Minnesota women's hockey team, which I must acknowledge as a Yale graduate defeated Harvard 6 to 2 in the finals, much to my enormous satisfaction, but just had a terrific year, it was rated No. 1 throughout the year and prevailed in the national championship. It shows, as the Senator noted, women's basketball is the same as women's hockey. Under the auspices of title IX and the opportunities now that have been given to women athletes starting as young girls, they have equal opportunity to play these sports. Their talents and skills are every bit as good as men's, and they are phenomenal athletes and delights to watch as they play these games with the highest level of proficiency. It is something that as Americans we should be proud of, the fact that we have made that advance and that girls are no longer relegated to being cheerleaders for men's sports or boys' sports, as they were when I was growing up, but now have shown themselves to be remarkable athletes in their own right far advanced to anything that I could have accomplished as a meager athlete back in my day.
BREAK IN TEXT
Mr. DAYTON. I thank my colleague. I think we are in a position where we can come to an agreement on that. I am not sure many of our colleagues would agree, but the Senator is right. In fact, I read over the weekend that the women's semifinal basketball games outdrew the men's in the national televised audience. That is not to say anything disparaging about the men because they had an outstanding tournament as well. It shows the popularity of the sport among all Americans. Certainly, the skill level to which it is played is something that anybody, even a couch potato like this Senator, can enjoy.
The Senator is right, also, that the President has been extremely gracious in hosting these teams. I think he recognizes how much of a thrill it is for the teams that have dedicated themselves all year to this level of national proficiency to be able to be recognized by the President of the United States; it is a great achievement for all of them. I look forward to the President's invitation. He has been very gracious in the past, and I look forward to joining my friend, the Senator from Connecticut.
