Public Statements
Voting to Help the American People
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 1, 2004
Location: Washington DC

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
SENATE
VOTING TO HELP THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I am troubled by some of the comments made earlier as we debated whether to continue with this bill before us. In particular, one of the leaders on the other side of the aisle is quoted in today's paper as saying-this a direct quote-"Why put our Members through the whole litany of Democratic political votes for no discernible gain?"
I am amazed at the implication these amendments we in the Democratic caucus are trying in vain to have voted upon by the Senate are political votes. I am even more astonished it could be said they are for no discernible gain.
For whose gain are we talking? Not, perhaps, for Republican Members of the Senate. But that is not the purpose of our amendments. These are amendments to benefit the American people.
We are talking about extending unemployment benefits for the over 1.1 million Americans who have exhausted those benefits since December of last year. The Children's Defense Fund, originators of the No Child Left Behind concept, are committed to seeing it carried out and have estimated 622,000 American children live in families whose parents have exhausted their unemployment benefits. They estimate each of those families loses an average of $1,100 a month in income when their unemployment benefits run out. It drives over a third of them below the poverty level. Over two-thirds of those families lose their health care coverage.
No discernible gain from a vote on extending unemployment benefits? Perhaps not to the Republican caucus. But it would surely make a huge difference to 1.1 million American adults and their 622,000 children.
No discernible gain to a vote on protecting overtime pay for some 8 million Americans who stand to lose those benefits through the unilateral action of the Secretary of Labor? These are not idle political gestures. These are real decisions affecting the lives of millions of Americans.
It may be inconvenient for some Members to vote on them, but that is our responsibility in this body.
EDUCATION FUNDING
As another illustration of how these votes and these decisions really do affect people's lives, about a month ago we were holding rollcall votes regarding the budget resolution for the next fiscal year, and just about that same time the Secretary of Education was in my State of Minnesota, where he met with educators and with State officials, and with, evidently, some of the Members of the Minnesota congressional delegation on the other side of the aisle-I was not invited to either of those meetings, which seemed a shame since they were being billed as nonpolitical meetings, but, nevertheless, they did occur-and at that meeting-again, I was not invited, so I was not there-according to the reports of those who attended, the Secretary assured these Minnesota educators that No Child Left Behind is adequately funded.
Well, there had been rumors that there were going to be cutbacks affecting Minnesota in the title I program, which is the major source of funds under the so-called No Child Left Behind. So the Minnesota educators were temporarily relieved by that, until just a few weeks later-scarcely a month later, in fact-when the actual title I allocations for the next fiscal year, 2005, became known.
Lo and behold, Minnesota will experience a reduction of over $2.5 million. Only two States in the Nation are going to experience cuts in title I funding from the year 2004 to the next year, 2005: Massachusetts and Minnesota.
Now, I am not running for President or anything else, for that matter, this year, so I am shocked that Minnesota would be paired with Massachusetts as being the only two States to be cut back in title I dollars at the same time we are experiencing an increase in the children who are eligible for title I funding. As that reduction gets spread across our school districts, some of the consequences are very severe. Quite a number of districts will be taken off of title I funding whatsoever. They will not be able to serve any of the children in those school districts who are eligible, individually, for title I.
One of the school districts, Anoka-Hennepin, is going to experience a 40-percent reduction in funding for title I programs at the same time the number of children eligible for title I is going up.
Now, how can we say that there is no child going to be left behind under this program, and that it is adequately funded, when a school district such as that is going to experience a 40-percent reduction in funding? How is it that two States in the Nation-Massachusetts and Minnesota-are going to see a reduction in funding while the overall program nationwide is going to receive a $1 billion increase?
Why are we being punished? Why are we being penalized? Why are we being singled out for those reductions? Why does the Secretary of Education come to our State one month earlier and assure our educators that there is plenty of money, that these reductions are not going to take place, when either he did not know-in which case he was unbelievably ill-informed-or he knew and did not speak honestly to our educators? And either one of those I find enormously reprehensible.
Mr. President, $2,727,000 is a huge loss in money for the disadvantaged children of the State of Minnesota, meaning that less than half-less than half-of all the children in my State who are eligible for title I funding are actually going to get services provided to them. And that is no child left behind? That is a fraud. That is adequate funding for No Child Left Behind? That is a lie. That is a lie.
In this room I have heard it said several times: There is plenty of money for title I. There is plenty of money for No Child Left Behind. Not for Minnesota. We were underfunded before, and it is being cut back now. We are one of two States being cut. I ask the Secretary of Education: I want to know why. Come back to Minnesota, Mr. Secretary, now that you have the facts, evidently. Come back to Minnesota and meet with those educators and tell them why, why our money is being cut back.
The chairman of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee has stood on this floor-and I have had this debate with him; he is not here presently, but I look forward to that opportunity again in the future-saying there is additional money available to the States under No Child Left Behind. In fact, there is so much additional money that some States don't know what to do with it all.
Well, I can see why that distinguished Senator made that statement, because in his home State, over the last 5 years, they have experienced a 44-percent increase in funding under title I. In this next year, they are going to receive an increase of almost the same $2.5 million which Minnesota is going to lose. They will receive an 8.1-percent increase in title I funding, whereas we will experience a reduction of over $2,727,000.
So I guess for some States this is a good deal because they are getting more money. I am glad they are, if they have that additional need. But the State of Minnesota has the additional need, also. More children are coming in from all over the world; children who need English second-language skills; children who are without any education from countries that have been war ravaged for years; children coming from other States with educational achievement levels grades behind the students in Minnesota.
We cannot offer the services they are entitled to under Federal law that existed before No Child Left Behind? We cannot offer the services that were promised to them and to us as a condition for voting in favor of No Child Left Behind? I voted against that, I will confess, as did my colleague at the time in the Senate. Maybe that is why Minnesota is being singled out and punished. I do not know. I do not understand why, except that I know the two Senators from Massachusetts-one is the ranking member of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, and he certainly made a commitment to this program at the time because he was assured there was going to be full funding; the other Senator, of course, is now the Democratic candidate for President of the United States. I find it really not coincidental that is one of the two States that is singled out to be cut back in funds.
But I do not understand why Minnesota-why Minnesota-is suffering accordingly. It is wrong. It is wrong to be cutting back funds when you are saying to the American people that no child is going to be left behind and then you turn around and make that a lie. It is wrong. It is unfair to the State of Minnesota.
Mr. Secretary of Education, you owe it to our State to come back and explain to our educators why it is that they are going to have to do more with less next year. Why is it that we are one of two States being cut back?
I am deeply offended. On behalf of the people of Minnesota, I am enraged that we are being treated in this unfair way-and on behalf, most of all, of the children in the State of Minnesota who are not going to be receiving the special services to which they are entitled. We are going to force cutbacks in educational services affecting all of our schoolchildren. They are being left behind, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, they are being left behind. What are you going to do about it?
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senator from Maryland is recognized for up to 10 minutes.
