Public Statements
Congratulating Senator Robert C. Byrd on Casting His 17,000th vote
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 1, 2004
Location: Washington DC

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
SENATE
CONGRATULATING SENATOR ROBERT C. BYRD ON CASTING HIS 17,000TH VOTE
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I join with my more senior colleagues in paying my respects and tribute to the great Senator from West Virginia, Mr. Byrd. It is a mark of his greatness that he has had such a powerful effect on not only the most senior of his colleagues who have been here the longest, but also the more junior Members of the Senate, such as myself.
When I arrived here in January 2001, just a little over 3 years ago, I was one of 12 freshman Senators from both sides of the aisle. We were given many words of encouragement from our colleagues, but basically left to find our own way or flounder along the way. It was Senator Byrd who took it upon himself to convene tutorials with the 12 of us. We convened promptly at 4 o'clock in his office, and he shared with us his perspective on the Senate.
From the four volumes he has orated and published as the history of the U.S. Senate, as well as the volume he orated from his own direct knowledge and reading about the Roman Senate, there is no one who possesses more wisdom and a broader understanding of the historical role and the responsibility of this body and this great democracy and Republic.
Those of us who had the benefit of those tutorials learned more from those sessions about how to conduct ourselves in the Chamber where he has served with such greatness than from anything else.
When the time came for us to preside, as we took the majority, I had the opportunity, through many hours, to watch and listen to Senator Byrd, particularly in the fall of 2002 when we were debating the resolution to give the President authority to make the final decision on whether to commit this Nation to war in Iraq.
Senator Byrd was heroic in standing forth and taking a stand which I supported because of the compelling wisdom of his words and the power and the eloquence to remind us that we had a constitutional responsibility in this body which we were forsaking by abdicating that responsibility to the President.
I believe Senator Byrd received over 20,000 phone calls from his fellow citizens around the country. Back in my State of Minnesota, I heard time and again from those who were so admiring of his courage and his steadfastness as I was then, too. I learned more about the U.S. Constitution during that time than I had ever learned before in my life, and I learned more about the proper role of the Senate than I possibly could have learned through years of experience, just by having the benefit of serving with and listening to and learning from Senator ROBERT BYRD.
I am very proud to pay tribute to him today. He has been the most influential Member of this body in my development here, and I am grateful beyond words for the privilege of serving with him.
I yield the floor.
