Public Statements
Oil Supply
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 29, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


OIL SUPPLY
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I certainly agree with my colleague, the Senator from Michigan, about the need to deal with our present situation which affects my State, as well as everyone else.
I also want to point out to my colleagues that the ultimate solution to our oil dependency needs is not going to come from more oil, more tax breaks for oil, more searching for oil, or extracting oil from environmentally sensitive areas. It is going to be in developing viable alternatives to oil, one of which is right in front of us, available to us now, and is barely being tapped by this Nation. And that is ethanol.
I have a Ford Explorer I drive all over Minnesota on a fuel called E-85-85-percent ethanol, 15-percent regular gasoline. The engine is produced by the manufacturer with a very slight modification. Last summer in southern Minnesota, E-85 fuel was 22 cents a gallon less than regular unleaded. I have not checked in the last couple of weeks, but given the price of gasoline, I suspect it is even less expensive now.
Just imagine if we were to take half or more of the $115 billion that we spend every year to import foreign oil-over half of all the oil we consume-and instead of spending it overseas, we were to put it in the pockets of American farmers, who then would spend their dollars in their local communities. Those dollars would multiply, and we would fuel an economic resurgence of rural America far greater than any Government program could possibly devise. It is a cleaner burning fuel, so we would improve the quality of our environment. We would reduce our dependency on foreign oil. We would raise the price of commodities such as corn and soybeans for soy diesel and some of the other agricultural products, so farmers could make a profit in the marketplace at those higher prices rather than have to be subsidized by the American taxpayer. It is basically a policy grand slam, and yet in this country right now less than 2 percent of the gasoline supply consumed is ethanol.
