Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account - Social Security
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 22, 2004
Location: Unknown


Your Dayton's Account
Social Security
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan recently threw another Social Security scare into many people. He said the current payroll tax formula would not be able to pay for all benefits promised over the next 75 years. He proposed to cut future benefits by lowering the cost-of-living adjustment and by increasing the retirement age.
At the same time, he repeated his support for making all of President Bush's tax changes permanent. Yet they are causing the federal government to run huge annual deficits, which this year will total almost $550 billion and which will likely continue for years to come.
Remember the "lockbox" that President Clinton established for Social Security's surpluses? In 2000, then-presidential candidate George W. Bush promised, along with almost everyone else, to use those annual surpluses only for Social Security benefits or national debt reduction.
Today, that promise to protect Social Security's "lockbox" is about as believable as last year's report about weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The Social Security Trust Fund's surpluses from previous years have been "borrowed" to pay for part of the annual deficits; and the Trust Fund's expected future surpluses will likely go to the same purpose. In return, the Trust Fund will accumulate IOU's from the federal government in U.S. Treasury Bills, which it can redeem with interest when needed to pay future benefits. That redemption time is expected to come in about 10 to 12 years. Then there will be a serious problem, if the federal government is still running large deficits, resulting from President Bush's tax cuts, his spending increases, and the $250 billion interest payments on the accumulated national debt. Additional federal revenues would be needed to fund all of those obligations and Social Security.
The need for additional revenues, however, do not automatically implicate raising taxes. The key factor during those crucial 10 to 12 years will be the strength of the U.S. economy. Ultimately, the federal government's ability to pay for all of its programs and obligations, including its IOU's to the Social Security Trust Fund, will depend upon the nation's economic performance. If our economy grows over the next 35 years at, or better than, the 3.1 percent average of the past 35 years, the Social Security Trust Fund will continue to enjoy surpluses with which to pay all of its promised benefits. Only if that rate of growth cannot be sustained will it become necessary either to reduce benefits or to increase taxes.
It does not make sense, however, to make those decisions or any changes until they are necessary. As long as the Trust Fund continues to run surpluses, it obviously will have more than enough money to pay all of its promised benefits. If the federal government can redeem the Treasury Bills which the Trust Fund holds to make up for any shortfalls, the Trust Fund will also be able to meet all of its commitments. Surpluses are now expected to be sufficient until 2040, even if future economic growth is less than before. It would be both unnecessary and unwise to make changes to future revenues or expenditures until shortly before they would be required.
It is important to recognize that few programs or promises of the federal government are guaranteed into the future. Social Security has always depended upon each generation's trust that, if it pays for the retirement benefits of the previous generation, its own retirement benefits will be paid by the succeeding generation.
That arrangement also means, however, that each generation has a vital stake in the success of its successor. The best way to ensure that success is by providing the best possible education to every American in the next generation. It will not be good enough, if only some of our citizens succeed. Almost all must be productive and successful, if they are to grow the U.S. economy at the healthy rate necessary to pay for Social Security, Medicare, and the other important responsibilities of the federal government. That is why lowering the quality of our nation's schools or forcing young Americans to incur large debts to complete their college educations is both unfair and unwise. Their feelings of generosity toward their elders may depend, in part, on their feelings of generosity from their elders! "As ye sow, so shall ye reap."
