Public Statements
Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2005-Continued
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 11, 2004
Location: Washington, DC

CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2005-CONTINUED
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, this amendment has three parts. First, it increases the Federal funding for special education to the 40-percent share that was promised for the last 27 years. This year the Federal funding for special education is less than half of what was promised 27 years ago. In my State of Minnesota, this broken promise for special education means cuts in Federal programs that occur across all schools for all students, and it also means higher property taxes for the citizens of my State.
I can't believe the other States in this Nation don't encounter the same problems when the Federal Government doesn't fund one of its two most important commitments to education at even half the level it has promised for over a quarter of a century.
The second amendment would reduce the Federal deficit by $1 million a year for each of the next 5 years. To pay for this, I would increase the top tax rate from 35 percent to 38.5 percent. The average income of Americans in that top tax bracket is over $1.1 million. Of course, they don't pay that top rate. Their income from dividends and from capital gains is now taxed at 15 percent. With the lower rates and other loopholes, most of America's multimillionaires and billionaires pay lower tax rates than most middle-class working Americans.
The question is, Whose needs are more important america's schoolchildren who have the greatest needs or America's superrich who have the greatest connections?
The answer is we have seen at least a dozen times tonight that the superrich are the best connected people in America. All of these phantom family farmers and struggling small business owners of companies the size of Lockheed whose incomes exceed over $1.1 million a year, none of whom are located in Minnesota, but they are out there somewhere.
I call up my amendment and will agree once it has been read to accept the decision on a voice vote.
