Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 11, 2004
Location: Washington, DC

SECTION: CAPITOL HILL HEARING
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE

SUBJECT: MISSILE DEFENSE AND THE FY2005 DOD BUDGET

CHAIRED BY: SENATOR JOHN WARNER (R-VA)

LOCATION: 325 RUSSELL SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
WITNESSES: MICHAEL WYNNE, ACTING UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR ACQUISITION, TECHNOLOGY AND LOGISTICS; ADMIRAL JAMES O. ELLIS, JR., USN, COMMANDER, U.S. STRATEGIC COMMAND; THOMAS P. CHRISTIE, DIRECTOR, OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION; LIEUTENANT GENERAL RONALD T. KADISH, USAF, DIRECTOR, MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY; LIEUTENANT GENERAL LARRY J. DODGEN, USA, COMMANDER, SPACE AND MISSILE DEFENSE COMMAND

BODY:
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D-MN): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, this is the fourth time I've been involved in this process as a member of this committee, and in each of those instances my experience has been the unanimous support among its members for the research and the development, the testing of this system and for its deployment, the law says, evidently, when possible-I would say when proper. What you're getting today are questions, and I have these questions as well about whether the deployment timetable is being dictated by professional judgments or political pronouncements. And I realize you're constrained by the orders you've been given by your civilian commanders.
I personally-so this comment is not directed toward you, but I personally philosophically have a hard time with people who run for public office stating that government does everything badly, and then when they're elected, they go out to prove themselves correct.
I cannot conceive of business executives, responsible corporate leaders, who would go to their board of directors or to their shareholders and say, "Well, we've got this major new product we're going to bring out, and it's a breakthrough technology-unproven, untried-but we're already building the first sites. We're starting production based on this degree of testing."
Last week we debated standards of liability and negligence for producing handguns and rifles. Those products-it's not an exact comparison for the general public, but if those products were deployed with this degree of testing, they would be liable for gross negligence, anything you want to define it.
It would be unthinkable by corporate prudence, by fiscal sanity, by government oversight and by public common sense to be undertaking this, in my judgment, based on what I know and based on what you're telling me here. I mean, some of these comments are just unbelievable. We're using scenarios to incorporate increasing realism into our test program. I would think realism would be the starting point, not the ending point of test programs.
And, again, certainly before you're talking about building sites and authorizing the production, paying for the production of missiles and putting those out and deploying them and then stating that they represent a useful ballistic missile defense capability, a dramatic improvement over our current condition of being defenseless against ballistic missile attack, we have a rudimentary system, as one of you said, in a situation which requires incredible-as others of you have pointed out-sophistication and perfection.
Another comment made that there's now being incorporated a certain rigor in their testing philosophy. And we're now using more complex target presentations and engagement geometries. I assume that means, you know, things like not just on sunny days and not just with single-fire missiles whose trajectory is already known at the time, already known and without confusing and distracting other measures.
And, again, if that's where we're at in the development of this technologically, so be it. I mean, I don't question that all is being done that can be done. But I certainly question the wisdom of this deployment and construction. I mean, as a public works project in Alaska, I guess it's worth something. As a jobs program, it's limited, but it's certainly vastly more effective than moving the estate tax repeal from the year 2010 to 2009. I would personally feel a lot better about it if the administration would agree to a highway construction bill that would at least benefit the other 49 states, including my own. Those are established technologies.
You know, we're along for the ride on this. You know, two years ago there was even the thought mentioned of shaving a sliver of funding based on funds that had been determined to be not used in the previous fiscal year and would be available for the next fiscal year, and veto threats and if we suggested or proposed that of emasculating the entire national defense of the nation-and gutting is the operative word these days, gutting our capability-so, I mean, you know, I don't even imagine those considerations in my darkest moments at night.
We're along for the ride on these decisions, and so is the American public and the taxpayer. Whether this is the most efficient use of tax dollars, I just seriously doubt whether these expenditures are even putting us on the most expeditious path to what we want and need.
We've agreed here we need a system that can perform the incredibly complex functions over distances at speeds within seconds and the precision necessary to accomplish results under all-weather conditions, despite enemy subterfuge and disruptive tactics, and do it perfectly every time.
I mean, I have to-we have to rely, it seems to me, on your making the right decisions for the right reasons to produce the right results. And I hope and I pray that you are. And I hope that we can all and everyone else involved in the political realm permit and not prevent you from doing so.
My time has expired. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
