Public Statements
Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2005
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 10, 2004
Location: Washington, DC

CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2005
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I commend my colleague, the Senator from Washington, for her amendment, along with Senator Kennedy, and for her dedicated and lifelong efforts to improve the quality of education for all of our Nation's children. She has been a pioneer and a champion in the Senate, as she has been in her career as an educator. She knows whereof she speaks.
Once again, we are encountering the same old arguments from the other side of the aisle. Personally, I am tired of going back to 1993 or 1994 to try to explain or excuse what it is we are doing or not doing right now for education in this country. I want us to do what is right for now, to respond to the needs that exist now. I have said it in other debates on education funding, and I will say it again: If President Bush proposed more money than President Clinton, then President Bush deserves that credit, in my eyes. If the 108th and the 107th Congresses provided more money for education than previous Congresses, and more than President Bush has proposed at times, then this Congress deserves that credit, in my eyes.
But we are not doing this for ourselves. We are not trying to keep some scorecard. We are not trying to fiddle around with percentages or other things. We are doing this for America's children.
The important question we ought to all be asking ourselves is, Are we doing enough? Are we providing the money needed to do what we all said should be done to leave no child behind?
That is this President's proclamation. He set that standard for us and for the country. That is the law we passed. It is a great standard. It is an important standard, and we all seem to agree that should be the standard. So the question we need to ask ourselves is, Are we budgeting the money necessary to achieve that result?
