Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 9, 2004
Location: Washington, DC

SECTION: CAPITOL HILL HEARING
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE

SUBJECT: FUTURE WORLDWIDE THREATS TO U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY

CHAIRED BY: SENATOR JOHN WARNER (R-VA)

LOCATION: 216 HART SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
WITNESSES: DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GEORGE TENET; AND DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY DIRECTOR VICE ADMIRAL LOWELL JACOBY

BODY:
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D-MN): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Director Tenet, Admiral, I have been consistently impressed with your veracity and information you presented to me. And both the open and closed sessions I thought that your information prior to the commencement of the war was couched in probabilities and range of possibilities that I was concerned in some instances were either dropped from further assertions or expanded beyond the scope of what you had provided to us.
And apropos of that, you said in your speech at Georgetown that we did not have-you said we had no specific information on the types or quantities of weapons-I think you were referring to biological weapons-agent or stockpiles at Baghdad's disposal. Yet in February of 2003 Secretary of State Powell, in his speech to the United Nations, stated the administration's conservative estimate was that Saddam possessed 100 (tons) to 500 tons of chemical weapons agent. The president himself said in October of 2002 in Cincinnati that Iraq had a massive stockpile of biological weapons, but neither your comment at Georgetown nor the NIE report of October of 2002 made that assertion of quantities stockpiled.
MR. TENET: I believe we posited the chemicals with the precision that you posited it, and I do not believe we posited or made a judgment on stockpiles of biological weapons in our estimate.
SEN. DAYTON: You posited the stockpiles of chemical weapons were of the amount that the secretary stated to the United Nations?
MR. TENET: (To staff.) Is that right?
STAFF: Yeah.
MR. TENET: Yeah, I think I have just captured it correctly.
SEN. DAYTON: Okay. You referenced the president's State of the Union speech and the one clause there that caused such later dismay, but as I recall that clarification or retraction was not made until 5 June of that year, five months after it was uttered. And there were some reports that there was an internal discussion that commenced even in March of that year about the inaccuracy there, but it was not publicly acknowledged by the White House until five months after the State of the Union. Is that your recollection?
MR. TENET: I don't recall the timing. I know that I made a public statement in I think July of that year. I'm not certain, but that's time time frame I made my comments in.
SEN. DAYTON: Another-six months afterward. The linkage that has been asserted with al Qaeda going back to even 9/11, as alluded in reference-various references made by-it was one that I don't recall was ever asserted by you or your agency. And in fact, I think that you-al Qaeda leaders reportedly told interrogators in Guantanamo that there wasn't any partnership between bin Laden and Saddam. Is that-yet that has been an assertion that has continually been made.
MR. TENET: We in-I think in testimony before this committee, we posited contacts, training and safe haven as the issues that we raised at the time. And when we published our paper and when we testified up here-October/November, and then we published a paper in January of 2003. I believe in questioning either in this committee or Senate Intelligence Committee we talked at length about our concerns about Zarqawi, who we posited to be a senior associate and collaborator of al Qaeda, documented his role in the Foley assassination, his operations in Baghdad in the summer of 2002.
SEN. DAYTON: Right. When the --
MR. TENET: I think we also said that we did not-I think I said publicly in one of these committees that we did not have command and control between these individuals and the regime.
SEN. DAYTON: So when the president stated in November of 2002 that Saddam was, quote, "dealing with," close quote, al Qaeda; and at the U.N. Secretary Powell said that there was, quote, "A sinister nexus," close quote, between Iraqi dictator and al Qaeda; and aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln on May 1st, the president called Saddam, and I quote, "ally," close quote, of al Qaeda; were those accurate reflections of the information that you were providing?
MR. TENET: I think the information of concern at the time went to contacts with Iraqi regime members going back to the mid-'90s; training that had been provided by the Iraqi regime.
SEN. DAYTON: The president said that Saddam was dealing with al Qaeda.
MR. TENET: Well, if they provided training, sir --
SEN. DAYTON: Current tense.
MR. TENET: -- that would be dealing with, at the time. And then the whole question of the safe haven, or the fact that these people could operate in Iraq, I think I said in testimony before this committee, it was inconceivable to me that Zarqawi and two dozen EIJ operatives could be operating in Baghdad without Iraq knowing, although I posited we didn't know about command, control and sustenance. So the safe haven argument was --
SEN. DAYTON: In your speech in Georgetown you said that your analysts never concluded that Iraq was a quote, "imminent threat," close quote. Do you-was that your assessment, composite assessment of --
MR. TENET: Sir, we did not-we believed and stated, and as I think the follow-on line in the Georgetown speech is, we believed that he would continue-Saddam has continued his efforts to deceive and build programs that might constantly --
SEN. DAYTON: Was he an imminent threat?
MR. TENET: We did not say that, sir.
SEN. DAYTON: You didn't say that? Yet I would posit-I would certainly assert that we were led to believe by others; I think the American people were led to believe the reason we went into Iraq, started that engagement, was because he constituted, by all available preponderance of evidence, an imminent, urgent threat to our national security. And I don't fault you for that because I don't think you did make that assertion; but others certainly did.
I'll just clarify one point that was made earlier by Senator Cornyn. You have a budget that's obviously classified, but the reference to the contemplated or conceptualized $1.5 billion, I think as Senator Cornyn acknowledged, was a $300 million reduction in the proposed budget or the increase in the budget for each of five years. Would a one percent-if that's the approximate number based on published reports-reduction in your budget overall for each of the five years, would that, quote-unquote, "gut" your agency and your intelligence-gathering capabilities?
MR. TENET: Sir, it comes from-I guess, the perspective I would have to bring is is tell me where you're taking it from. What's my --
SEN. DAYTON: I don't think-as far as I know that wasn't specified. But would that-hypothetically, would a one percent, say, a reduction, in your budget for each of five years, quote- unquote, "gut" your agency and its intelligence-gathering capabilities?
MR. TENET: Sir, let me say that in the mid-'90s it wouldn't have been helpful.
SEN. DAYTON: Would it have gut-in that vernacular --
MR. TENET: Sir, obviously -- (inaudible) -- no $300 million cut is going to gut your intelligence capability --
SEN. DAYTON: Thank you.
MR. TENET: -- but cumulatively -- (inaudible).
SEN. DAYTON: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
