Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 11, 2004
Location: Unknown


Suspension of Senate Mail Delivery and Ricin
Last week, another terrorist scare swept the Capitol in Washington. A white powder was found in the mail room of the office of Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist. Tests showed it to be a deadly toxin, called ricin. Just a speck of ricin in the human bloodstream can be fatal, and there is no treatment for it.
All three Senate office buildings were immediately closed while they were tested for ricin. All unopened mail was removed from every office. Fortunately, no traces of that deadly substance were found elsewhere, and we returned to our offices by the week's end. Thankfully, no one in Senator Frist's office became ill from exposure to the ricin; neither did any of the Capitol Police who first answered the call for assistance.
For many of us, this scare was a grim reminder of the letters containing anthrax, another deadly toxin, which were sent to two Senate offices in October, 2001. One of the letters was opened in the office of then-Majority Leader Tom Daschle, and the anthrax spilled onto a table and the floor. (It does not seem a coincidence that, both times, letters were sent to the Senate Majority Leader.)
Tiny particles of anthrax, even finer than household dust, were carried to other offices in the Hart Senate Office Building by the air circulation system. The entire building was closed for almost three months! It was completely wrapped by heavy plastic and sealed like a bio-dome. Then a lethal gas, like the kind used in gas chambers, was pumped through the entire building. That had to be done three times, before all of the anthrax was destroyed. Whatever people left behind when they were evacuated in October: wallets, purses, computers, plants, or goldfish, they did not see again until January!
Needless to say, we are greatly relieved that the ricin did not spread and require another lengthy building closure. However, it did cause the suspension of the Senate's mail delivery. After the anthrax letters, special screening procedures were installed to detect poisonous substances. Obviously, those procedures failed to detect the ricin. So they are being revised; but, meanwhile, no mail is being delivered.
In the meantime, please contact me by sending an E-mail or a FAX to any of my offices. If you prefer to send a letter instead, please mail it to my Fort Snelling, Minnesota, office. The address is: Federal Building, One Federal Drive, Suite 298, Fort Snelling, Minnesota 55111. If you mailed anything to my Washington office within the past month, I may not have received it, due to the screening delay. You might want to send a copy to my Fort Snelling office, just to be sure.
Senator Coleman also can be reached at any of his offices by means of E-mail or FAX. He also asks that letters to him be sent to his office at 2550 University Avenue North, Suite 100N, Saint Paul, Minnesota 55114. At present, no mail is being delivered to offices in the U.S. House of Representatives; incoming mail is being held off-site until an official decision is made concerning delivery. Therefore, the best course of action for a quick response might be to write to a district office of your Representative.
I apologize for these delays and inconveniences. We do not like them, either. It is enormously frustrating that one sick person (or a few) can cause such disruption to so many lives. However, disruptions are far preferable to deaths.
