Public Statements
Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2003
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 11, 2004
Location: Washington, DC

SAFE, ACCOUNTABLE, FLEXIBLE, AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORTATION EQUITY ACT OF 2003
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I want to discuss a couple of amendments I intend to offer if the opportunity arises in the next couple of days.
I thank the bill's managers, Senator Inhofe and the ranking member, Senator Jeffords, for standing up against what I believe are very misguided attempts to take a meat cleaver to this very important bill. It is terribly unfortunate that immediately following the most recent budget projections, which show enormous deficits for this year and for the years thereafter, the very first legislation that comes to the floor is this one that provides transportation funding for the next 6 years.
This is not, I urge my colleagues, the place to economize. To do so in this bill would be penny wise and pound idiotic. It would be kind of like a person who was told by his doctor he has to lose weight and he decides to eliminate fruits and vegetables. These are public investments in our Nation's highways, bridges, rail lines, and mass transit systems. They are critical to our social and economic vitality-moving products quickly to market; moving people swiftly, smoothly, and safely to jobs, schools, and family activities, and then back home again. These are critical investments in the future of our country. They are termed capital investments, which means they are projects which themselves generate future wealth.
People say we ought to operate Government more like a business, and I agree. They should recognize that successful businesses regularly go into debt to finance their capital projects. Building new plants, expanding or modernizing existing facilities are good and necessary reasons to incur debt.
Most State and local governments also issue debt-public bonds to finance their capital projects. They use current receipts for ongoing operations or consumption. In the Federal Government, we are doing the opposite. We are going seriously into debt to pay for current programs and consumption and treating our capital improvement budget, such as this transportation bill, as if it were the same program spending. It is not.
Bankers and brokers understand that difference. Homeowners, farmers, and business owners understand that difference. State government officials understand that difference. Why can't this administration and Congress understand that difference?
That understanding is important because this is a bill where we need to think bigger, not smaller. Unless my colleagues' States are in very different conditions, and their highways, bridges, rail lines, mass transit systems are in much better shape than my State of Minnesota's, then they have the same critical shortage of funding as Minnesota.
In my State, the conditions and capacities of our highways and other public infrastructure have been declining over the last decade, and they are going to continue to do so without this additional infusion of Federal money. Our State and local governments simply do not have, and they are not going to have in the future, the increasing amounts of funding necessary to keep up with or catch up with growing populations and increased usage. It is only here in the Federal Government that we have the resources-at least we did until a couple years ago, before the budget surpluses were turned into deficits. But even now, we still have the resources, though not to do everything. It comes down to what are our priorities. What and who do we consider most important?
The President has made his priorities very clear. He has made making the 2001 and 2003 tax rates permanent the centerpiece of his budget and his economic recovery strategy. If so, we are going to be waiting quite a while for that recovery because the President's proposal won't even take effect until the expiration dates for the change now already in place; and for the 2001 tax bill items, that will be the year 2010. For the 2003 items, most of those won't be extended until the years 2006, 2007, and beyond.
This bill before us today is the best economic stimulus bill and jobs creation bill possible for right now-not 2006 or 2010, but right now-in Minnesota and across America, which is why the funding level for this bill ought to be increased, not decreased.
I had an amendment I would like to offer-although it flies in the face of reality-to double the amount of Federal funding that was provided 6 years ago, which was $218 billion, to increase that to $436 billion. That contrasts with the Senate bill now of $311 billion and the House bill of $375 billion, although I would not increase the amount by increasing the gasoline tax as is being proposed in the House. I would fund mine through the general fund, dedicate the revenues from the highway trust fund into the purposes they are being used for, but not use that as a ceiling for funding the necessary public infrastructure. That would be a business such as Target Corporation deciding the number of new stores it is going to build in the next few years is going to be a function of some formula, such as the percentage or revenues from socks or shorts that are being sold; and if somebody, for fashion reasons, decides they are going to go sockless for a year, that number goes down and so does the investment in new stores go down. No sensible business would make future investment decisions based on this kind of formula and be dictated by that result.
In this case, as well, we should be deciding as a body, with the House and the administration, what level of public investment we need to make in highways and mass transit systems over the next 6 years-make that decision based on the needs and then decide how we are going to fund it.
Again, we do these things backward here and, as a result, we don't make the commitment that will pay off for this Nation if we do it, and we will sacrifice the future of our highways and airports and rail lines if we don't do it.
While recognizing it is unlikely to be adopted by this Senate, especially in the face of the President's insistence that even the Senate number be reduced further-again, I salute Senator Inhofe and Senator Jeffords for standing resolutely in favor of this and being the fiscal conservatives they are. They recognize these are public investments that are vital, and to fail to make them would be-at least for Minnesota-virtually catastrophic. I thank the Chairman and ranking member for their steadfastness in supporting this and the level of commitment it makes.
I also am proud to be a cosponsor of the Build America Bonds Act, which is being sponsored by Senator Talent of Missouri and Senator Wyden of Oregon, because if we are not going to use public dollars directly for these projects, then another way to finance them would be for the Federal Government to issue bonds and provide tax credits to those who purchase the bonds.
The proposal made by Senators TALENT and WYDEN would issue another $50 billion of Federal bonds that would be then used throughout the States to advance these projects. If we are not going to use general revenue dollars or highway trust fund dollars sufficiently to meet the needs, then we ought to incorporate bonding in addition to what is being funded elsewhere.
I also thank Senator Grassley, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, for his initiative in the legislation for correcting what is essentially a penalty to those States, such as Iowa and Minnesota, that have been using ethanol as part of their fuel.
In Minnesota, we have had for the last 8 years a requirement that 10 percent of every gallon of gasoline sold in our State be comprised of ethanol. Right now, nationwide it is less than 2-percent ethanol in proportion to gasoline. If you listen to some of my colleagues, they would have you believe the use of ethanol is going to drive prices for gasoline or its substitute through the roof when, in fact, the opposite is true.
I use in my car in Minnesota with a slight engine modification made by the manufacturer, a Ford Explorer, a fuel that consists of 85-percent ethanol and 15-percent gasoline. That is 20 cents a gallon cheaper in southern Minnesota than regular unleaded. It runs just as well. The vehicle performs just as well.
If we want to reduce the $115 billion a year we send overseas to pay for the foreign oil we import, there is no more readily available way to do that than to increase the use of ethanol. I regret, because of some of the opposition to that, that Senator Frist's and Senator Daschle's amendment to increase the use of ethanol over the next decade in this country by a very modest amount is not going to be offered as an amendment to this legislation. Hopefully, it can be considered by the Senate and passed as a separate measure in the very near future.
The use of ethanol in the current formula penalizes States for that consumption. Again, I thank Senator Grassley and also the ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Baucus, for their initiative. It is going to be vital from my standpoint that the measure passing the Senate and the conference report include that correction.
I also will have two amendments I hope I will have the opportunity to offer. One is a rural roads safety amendment which I developed with the support of the National Association of Counties. It will provide additional funding. The amendment itself calls for $1 billion a year over the 6-year lifespan of this bill. This would be additional funding to provide for programs to improve the safety of our rural roads across the country.
More than 25,000 people die each year on our rural roads system. It is a fatality rate that is 2½ times greater than that for urban highways. In fact, it is the highest rate of fatalities per vehicle mile for any type of transportation in this country.
Despite this need on some 840,000 miles of rural two-lane roads, funding directed from this bill in the past has provided very little direct assistance to rural communities which, in my State at least, have the least capacity to undertake these expensive projects.
This funding would provide for improving roadway alignments, eliminating wheel way rutting, including skid resistance, widening lanes and shoulders, installing dedicated turn lanes-whatever the State and particularly the county and local units of government decide are in their best interest.
It is also being introduced in the House by Representative BOB NEY who is the chairman of the House Administration Committee. I hope it will receive favorable consideration in the next few hours.
The other amendment I would like to offer is a mandate for the Federal vehicle fleet to use either 10-percent ethanol-blended gasoline or biodiesel fuel, 2 percent or more where it is available and where it is at a generally competitive price. The amendment would apply to some 650,000 Federal vehicles everywhere except for the Department of Defense and the military, and it provides the opportunity for the Federal Government to take the leadership in encouraging the use of ethanol and biodiesel fuels by its own practices.
These are, as I said earlier, fuels that will add to our rural economic recovery to increase the prices of commodities, such as corn and soybeans, in the marketplace which raises profits for farmers and lowers subsidy costs for taxpayers. They are cleaner burning fuels than oil-derived fuels, and they put money in the pockets of Americans rather than foreigners.
This amendment, as well, I hope, will be considered favorably by this body. It is not going to increase costs. In fact, if anything, based on my experience with ethanol, it is going to lower costs, and it is going to provide a real boost to the rural economy of America.
In closing, I wish to say again that this legislation is crucial for Minnesota. It is crucial for our Nation. That is why tomorrow I am going to vote in favor of the cloture motion to proceed to this measure and move to pass it in the Senate. Hopefully, the House will follow suit as well so we can get this bill passed and signed by the President and into effect and get this money to the States where it can be well used and be an economic stimulus and provide jobs.
I hope during the course of that consideration I will have an opportunity to offer these amendments.
I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.
