Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee - Transcript
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 28, 2004
Location: Washington, DC

SECTION: CAPITOL HILL HEARING
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE

SUBJECT: IRAQI WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION PROGRAMS

CHAIRED BY: SENATOR JOHN WARNER (R-VA)

LOCATION: 106 DIRKSEN SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
WITNESSES: DAVID KAY, FORMER HEAD OF THE IRAQ SURVEY GROUP
BODY:
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D-MN): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Dr. Kay, I was-met you in July-I met you in July in our-Baghdad. It was 115 degrees there, and we left after three days, and you stayed on. And under those conditions, to persevere as you have and with the veracity that you've shown in your report and your candor here today, I would echo the others: your service to our country has been not only patriotic but heroic. And I thank you for that.
It seems to me one of the traps that we may be falling into here-and I'm not an expert, so I would ask you the question-is that we-are all weapons of mass destruction alike? It would strike me intuitively they are not. And if we're talking about biological capabilities, chemical capabilities, I would draw a line and say nuclear strikes me as something of a different order; conventional weapons, just about everything we put into the air or on land or in the water these days I would think constitutes a weapon of mass destruction. Are we putting ourselves in a trap here where anything of any viability at all starts to fall into that category?
MR. KAY: It's an important question, particularly as technology drives the capabilities of even what formally would been said conventional weapons, of capability to do mass disruption, at least, if not mass destruction. The same thing is true in the cyber era. I mean, we have today an email worm spreading throughout the world that is doing -- (laughs) -- vast mass disruption if not mass destruction. It may be doing that in some capability-in some areas. So these old terms don't serve us particularly well. It's one thing I hope to write about as I finish this.
SEN. DAYTON: Which weapons of mass destruction qualify in that upper echelon of truly mass destruction?
MR. KAY: Well, I think all of us have-and would continue to put the nuclear weapons in a different category. It's a single weapon that can do tremendous damage as opposed to multiple weapons that can do the same order of damage. As you know, the fire bombing of Tokyo in terms of number of people killed was roughly equivalent to a single bomb in Nagasaki, but it took a lot more aircraft to do it.
So I still treat-and I think we should politically treat-nuclear as a difference. But I must say, the revolution in biology, some developments in cyber, I think we're going to have a blurring out there of capabilities. And that makes the control and it makes the intelligence problem far more difficult to estimate.
SEN. DAYTON: We-just based on your general knowledge, how many countries do you-would you say in the world today would qualify under the category of developing weapons of mass destruction and related program activities, or having such activities?
MR. KAY: Senator Dayton, I hesitate to give you an off-the-cuff number because I know I'll-probably it's going to be like the 85 percent; I'm going to have to live with it for longer than I want to.
I would say that in the nuclear area, in addition to those that we KNOW have-possess nuclear weapons-that includes India --
SEN. DAYTON: I want to go to the vernacular that we're using, this broader category we're using --
MR. KAY: The broader category? Oh, I suspect you're talking about probably 50 countries that have --
SEN. DAYTON: Fifty.
MR. KAY: -- programs that would fall somewhere in that broader vernacular.
SEN. DAYTON: So if we're going to take out those countries, or their governments, which are engaged in what we would call weapons of mass destruction-related program activities, we're going to be cutting quite a world swath?
MR. KAY: Well, Senator Dayton, I think you're on to the issue. We no longer may be living in a world in which we can control capabilities. Intentions are what are going to be important. And quite frankly, that's what made Saddam so dangerous, in my view. Here was an individual who had invaded his neighbors, used chemical weapons against one of them, and used them against the other. So it was hard to have a benign interpretation of that individual's intentions. And the real challenge for intelligence is going to be giving to our political leaderships not just judgment about capabilities, but judgments about real intentions, and that is tough.
SEN. DAYTON: Mr. Chairman, I-well, I guess he's left. I will commend the chairman, even in his absence, for holding this hearing and letting these answers-the chips fall where they may. Because I think what we're-at issue here goes way beyond politics or partisan advantage one way or the other. This is about the survival of our country and the world as we know it.
And I guess I would ask you in the context of-I'm assuming that our-and I'm not on the Intelligence Committee, but I am impressed that they're very dedicated men and women who are spending all of their lives trying their very, very best to come up with the answers to these very difficult questions and assessments. Given the limits that you say which go both way, and Iraq may be less developed, and countries like Iran and Libya further developed, what does that argue about the wisdom of a policy of preemptive strikes?
MR. KAY: I don't know about the wisdom, but it certainly argues about the difficulty of doing it wisely. (Chuckles.)
SEN. DAYTON: I guess it would strike me-and I hope-again, the chairman's not here, but I would hope we would hold a hearing or two here about the success, it appears, with regard to Libya and the administration's role and, I gather, the preceding administration's role also, in secret negotiations which have brought about a denuclearizing of that country and that threat, which certainly sounds like it would qualify in the upper echelon as you describe it, and contrast that approach and its success, without a loss of American life in that country, to what has occurred in Iraq. So I hope we can look at both sides of this question.
And I will give the administration credit wherever the case may be for its successes, but I also want to recognize the-I think the grave risks that this limitation of intelligence information and its veracity imposes on a doctrine that says we're going to preemptively strike a country that we believe has things that we have now discovered in this case-with the best of intentions, I'll concede that-they did not have.
My time is up. But again, I thank you for your public service, sir.
