Public Statements
Dayton Reflects on State of the Union Before Returning to Washington
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 19, 2004
Location: Fort Snelling, MN


Senator focuses on jobs, health care, and the education of our children.
January 19, 2004
Fort Snelling, MN - U.S. Senator Mark Dayton today joined with several community leaders to reflect on the state of the Union on the eve of the President's official State of the Union address. Dayton urged the President and his colleagues in Congress to restore the American dream to every American and make Congress relevant to the needs of America's families. Specifically, Dayton focused on restoring jobs lost during the past three years, curbing the soaring cost of health care, and providing the promised funding to children in America's classrooms.
Below are excerpts from Dayton's remarks today:
"Tomorrow night, President Bush delivers his State of the Union Address. Today, we are honoring the life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and his dream for America. The difference between these two men, George Bush and Martin Luther King, is the difference in the direction they wanted to take this country. And that difference defines the state of our Union today
The State of the Union is less united and more divided than when George Bush took office three years ago. The rich are richer, the rest are poorer. The number of wealthy millionaires and the number of unemployed are both at record highs. The President can't do enough for the multi-millionaires, and he won't do anything for the unemployed.
The education divide is also growing. The President promised to pass No Child Left Behind. He's now left his promise and his program behind, meaning more children are being left further behind before they even start school, while they're in school, and farther behind still when they can't afford to go on for a post-secondary education.
The health care divide has also worsened and widened, between those who have good coverage or can afford the best medical care in the world in this country and the increasing numbers of Americans who are uninsured or who can't afford their rising premiums, deductibles or co-pays; between the people who can still afford the exorbitant prices of prescription medicines and those who cannot; and the shameful divide between the coverage that members of Congress receive and then what they vote for seniors on Medicare.
So I'd like to take a moment to look briefly at these growing divides, and especially how they are affecting Minnesota.
George Bush inherited a national economy with record high employment and a balanced federal budget, with surpluses expected for each of the next ten years. Minnesota's employment also reached its all-time record high in February of 2001, just after Bush took office. We had 2,697,000 Minnesotans working. At last report, in November of 2003, almost 60,000 fewer people are working in Minnesota - 58,800 to be exact. About 50,000 of our lost jobs are in the manufacturing sector, yet Minnesota fared better than the nation. The country as a whole lost almost 2.5 million jobs from February of 2001 to December of 2003; and, we lost even more than that number of manufacturing jobs - over 2.6 million manufacturing jobs. Almost one-fifth of our nation's manufacturing jobs have disappeared since George Bush took office.
Some of these jobs lost are due to the recession, but even more of these losses are due to the President's tax and trade policies which have encouraged and even rewarded companies for moving manufacturing and production oversees.
Last month I met in Washington with the Premier of the Republic of China. He said there are now more than 40,000 U.S. business ventures operating in China. He said that for an air-conditioning unit that costs $230 to make in the United States, in China they can make that for $3. The next day there was an article I read about a company in Ohio that had moved its manufacturing operations to China where the minimum wage in that province was 33 cents an hour. But the minimum wage wasn't enforced, so the company was paying only 21 cents an hour. The people working there, mostly young women, were working 84 hour work-weeks -- 12 hour shifts, 7 days or nights a week. No overtime, no vacation, no benefits.
Well, as a result of those policies and as a result of the impossibility of competing with those kinds of conditions, there is no overtime, no benefits, no vacation for 1,400 workers and their families at LTV Corporation in Aurora and Hoyt Lakes, Minnesota because there aren't any jobs. And there are no overtime or health or vacation benefits for 650 workers who used to work at the Potlatch Plant just outside of Brainerd.
The President likes to spotlight people in his State of the Union Address. I wish in his speech tomorrow night, he'd highlight the 40 year old Potlatch worker who broke down into tears in front of his fellow workers when I was at the plant with my friend Paul Wellstone, as this worker told them how much he would miss them when that plant closed later that week and he told them that he loved them. He was the third generation worker in that plant, but there won't be another generation.
Or the President could spotlight another third-generation plant worker I met with last week who works for American Crystal Sugar up in East Grand Forks, and the latest trade agreement just negotiated which they are going to try to ram through Congress either this year, or after the election next year. If it passes, it is likely to cost him his job, and those of all of his fellow workers, and end a $2.2 billion sugar beet growing and processing industry in Northwestern Minnesota and North Dakota.
Well, workers have been left behind, and farmers have been left behind, seniors have been left behind, while the rich have been moved further ahead in the last three years. But at least the President promised us there would be no child left behind.
His promise to leave no child behind has turned out to be about as credible as a Brittany Spears wedding vow. Last week the President admitted that his 2005 Budget Proposal, which he'll be making to us shortly after the State of the Union Address, is going to be $7 billion below the amount needed to fully fund Title 1, which is the federal government's major education funding mechanism for disadvantaged youth. I haven't seen the numbers yet proposed for special education funding, but it will almost certainly be remain less than half of the promise that was made by the federal government more than 30 years ago - that pledged 40 percent of the cost of special education. The Title I under-funding will leave an estimated 4.5 million low income children without better teachers, smaller class sizes, and the extra help they need in reading, math and other subjects. About 22,000 Minnesota school children who are eligible for Title I will not be receiving those services.
And I've tried four times in the last three years to increase federal education funding to the promised 40 percent levels - that would be 250 million dollars of additional funding each year for Minnesota school districts who desperately need that funding to off-set state cutbacks.
Last week I was on the Northern border of Minnesota in Baudette, Warroad, Roseau and International Falls. In International Falls, over the last two years they've cut 1 million dollars out of a 13 million dollar budget; in Lake of the Woods they've cut 1 million dollars in the last three years out of a budget of about 6 million dollars; Roseau and Warroad are also experiencing major cuts. We are de-funding public education in Minnesota.
In post-secondary education in Minnesota, the outlook is similar. According to Minnesota's representatives to the National Student Association, who met with me in Washington just six weeks ago, among all the states for public two-year colleges, Minnesota's tuition is now third highest in the nation
Some of my colleagues say, well, we can't afford to meet those needs. They say we can't afford to provide health insurance to 44 million Americans who are without it today, that's four million more than when George Bush took office. They say we can't afford to provide seniors in America with prescription drug coverage as good as members of Congress receive. Yet they can always afford more tax favors for the wealthiest people and the largest corporations in this country.
Over the next ten years, over 40 percent of the tax breaks provided in 2001 and the 2003 tax bills will go to the wealthiest one percent of people in America. The average tax cut in America last year for households whose annual income was greater than 1 million dollars was $113,000. Now that's compassionate conservativism. That's also what the Concord Coalition - a business public policy group - called the most reckless fiscal policy in this nation's history. And it's part of the policy that's further dividing the richest Americans from the rest of Americans.
And that should not be, nor does it need to be the state of our Union, nor our state of Minnesota. So I return to Washington tomorrow, and I hope to be a part of what Martin Luther King called the Great Coalition: the people from all backgrounds and races and nationalities who want to lead us, all of us, to Dr. King's promised land.
But that will require a new direction for our Great Ship of State. I'll join with my colleagues in proposing, working for and hopefully passing prescription drug coverage for seniors as good as Congress receives, and an end to drug company price profiteering. I'll work for an extension of unemployment benefits, protection of overtime pay, and an end to jobs-destroying trade deals. I'll propose full funding for Title I, IDEA, Head Start and an increase in post-secondary grants and college work-study funding. I'll propose ending the tax give-aways to the rich, super-rich, and to profitable corporations in order to help pay for what I have proposed.
Now, if those proposals make me irrelevant, then Congress is irrelevant to the needs and interests of most Minnesotans and most Americans. I won't go along with giving half a loaf to people who need more and giving the rest of the bakery to the people who already have enough.
It's been said in this country for almost 300 years now that united we stand, divided we fall. There are dangers that we face from outside this country, but there are also dangers we face from within that are based on this increasing divide, that may ultimately prove even greater if we don't correct it now and restore Dr. Martin Luther King's dream to everyone."
Joining Dayton at the press conference today were Ray Waldron, President, AFL-CIO; Sandra Peterson, Vice-President, Education Minnesota; Erin Murphy, Executive Director, Minnesota Nurses Association; Kate Stahl, Minnesota Senior Federation; and Minh Ta, Senior Policy Advisor, Minnesota Children's Defense Fund.
