Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 13, 2004
Location: Unknown

January 13, 2004
January third marked the halfway point of my six-year Senate term, and this “Your Dayton’s Account” is the second part of a retrospective on those three years. I apologize for its delay. I spent most the preceding week helping my 20-year-old son, Andrew, to recover from a bad strep throat and then fending it off myself! I hope the New Year started better for you!
In my last Account, I reflected on the enormous and previously unimaginable events of the last three years. They included the horrors of September 11th, voting on two War Resolutions (for Afghanistan, against Iraq) followed by the wars themselves, suspension of the Senate’s mail service by letters laced with anthrax, and the terrible plane crash which took the lives of Paul, Sheila, and Marcia Wellstone, and other exceptional people.
The staggering impacts and consequences of those events affect my life every day, as they do so many other Minnesotans. Yet, the legislative work of the Senate continued during those catastrophes, as it had before, through the best and worst chapters in America’s history. The highlights and lowlights of that work will comprise this and the next Dayton’s Account.
So much has changed in just three years! When I took office on January 3, 2001, our nation’s economy had just completed its seventh consecutive year of expansion. The increases in the number of Americans working and in their combined incomes had produced the first federal budget surpluses in four decades. Incoming President George Bush’s budget officials forecast surpluses in each of the next ten years.
By that spring, however, the nation’s unemployment was rising, stock markets were falling, and the projected surpluses in those budget forecasts were shrinking. Nevertheless, Congress passed most of a gigantic tax bill, which the President had proposed. It is always popular to cut taxes, and politicians love to be popular. That legislation made the Members of Congress who supported it extremely popular with the richest 1% of Americans, who would receive over 40% of its benefits. I did not support it, because it gave too much to the people who needed it the least and not enough to everyone else.
The economic downturn and excessive tax giveaway turned expected federal budget surpluses into projected deficits, even before the terrible events of September 11, 2001. They destroyed many lives, dreams, and plans. They further ravaged the national economy and the federal budget. More people lost their jobs and their investments, as an economic downturn turned into a serious recession.
Nevertheless, the President proposed, and a majority in Congress voted, to continue cutting taxes, while also increasing federal spending for national defense and homeland security. They produced what the Concord Coalition, a policy organization headed by businessman Warren Buffet, has called “the most reckless” fiscal irresponsibility in American history. The federal government spent $374 billion more than its revenues during fiscal year 2003. That deficit was the largest in history, breaking the record set in 1992 by George H.W. Bush. It is likely to be a short-lived record, as this year’s deficit will likely exceed $500 billion. In ten years, that recklessness will increase the accumulated national debt to an estimated $5 Trillion.
About that time, as more of the “baby boom generation” retires, the surpluses now occurring each year in the Social Security Trust Fund will also turn into deficits. The Social Security Fund must then be repaid its current surpluses, which are now being, and will continue to be, “borrowed” to cover part of the huge operating deficits. Add those Social Security Fund repayments to federal budgets already running deficits, and the results will be disastrous.
By then, however, they will be disasters for another Administration and another Congress. Meanwhile, the present occupants prefer the old MAD Magazine attitude: “What? Me Worry!”
We should worry.
