Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account Retrospective at a Halfway Point
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Dec. 15, 2003
Location: Unknown

YOUR DAYTON'S ACCOUNT RETROSPECTIVE AT A HALFWAY POINT
Congress has given a Christmas present to the nation: We have adjourned until next year! This year's completion marks the halfway point in my six-year term, which prompts this retrospective.
I took my Oath of Office on January 3, 2001, with high hopes and optimism. The federal budget was running a surplus, thanks to a prolonged economic expansion and record-high employment. Revenue projections for the next ten years showed a surplus of over 5 trillion dollars! What an incredible opportunity we would have to provide good prescription drug coverage for senior citizens, to better fund education, and to reduce taxes on the middle class.
The following three years were incredible, but very different from those hopes. The horrors of 9/11 surpassed anything previously imaginable; terrorist threats completely recast the nation's priorities and Congress' preoccupations. I voted for one War Resolution, targeting Osama bin Laden and the supporting government in Afghanistan, and against another War Resolution, targeting Iraq. I shared my Washington Office with my friend and colleague, Senator Paul Wellstone, and his staff, after letters containing anthrax closed the Hart Senate Office Building for almost three months. A year later, a terrible plane crash killed Paul, Sheila, and Marcia Wellstone, three aides, and two pilots. They were incalculable losses for their families, for all of Minnesota, and for me.
I don't try to imagine what the next three years might hold.
September 11, 2001, is a day whose horrible events are forever seared into my consciousness. Shortly after the two World Trade Towers and the Pentagon had been struck, the Capitol Complex was evacuated. I walked the few blocks from my Senate Office to the hotel where I was staying. The General Manager invited me to accompany her up to the roof of that ten-story building. It was eerily still and quiet above the gridlocked streets below. The sky was empty of the airplanes and helicopters usually flying into and out of National Airport. Suddenly, an F-16 fighter plane came streaking down the Mall and directly over the dome of the Capitol. It was a living nightmare: our nation under enemy attack.
We learned later that a fourth hijacked plane was headed toward Washington and very likely the Capitol, until it was heroically thwarted by passengers led by Minnesota native, Tom Burnett, Jr., of Bloomington. Their heroism was matched by that of thousands of other Americans on that terrible day and on the days and nights which followed.
Three days later, I toured the Pentagon site, and the following week I traveled to the site of the World Trade Towers. Four months later, I was in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Uzbekistan, as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Last July, I traveled to Iraq to meet with American troops and military command. Those firsthand experiences and my service on that Senate Committee have instilled in me the utmost respect and admiration for the courageous men and women who make our Armed Services the best in the world. The Minnesotans on active duty, in the Reserves, and in the National Guard, are performing incredible acts of heroism and patriotism on our behalf. We are deeply indebted to them and to their families, who must endure their long absences. And may we forever honor the Minnesotans who have given their lives in the service of their country.
Almost everything in Washington has been altered by 9/11. Capitol security is much tighter, and concrete barriers guard every entrance to all the buildings which make up the United States Capitol Complex. On high-alert days, I walk to the Senate Chamber past soldiers standing with their machine guns locked and loaded. Back home, I have met with hundreds of Mayors, County Commissioners, Police and Fire Chiefs, Hospital Administrators, Doctors, Nurses, other health and local officials, and concerned citizens, regarding their preparedness for any attack or emergency, however unlikely they might be. Those protections cannot be absolute, given the size of our state and nation, the constant flow of people, vehicles, packages, products, and produce across our borders, and the zeal of some fanatics to murder others as they martyr themselves. However, they are vastly improved; they will keep improving; and there are always Americans vigilant everywhere for whatever might impossibly occur.
The strength, resiliency, and resolve of the American people in the aftermath of 9/11 have been phenomenal. Those qualities have been manifest on so many occasions; one of them I witnessed on September 11, 2002, when I attended a memorial service outside the Pentagon. The blackened, twisted, and mangled exterior and exposed interior of the year before had been completely repaired and restored.
Despite the enormous damage caused by the impact and explosion of a fast-moving, fully fueled airplane, the Pentagon structure's ability to absorb and contain that enormous blow was remarkable. It was built in 1942, when an enemy attack was not inconceivable; so it had been designed and constructed to withstand its attempted destruction. Its structure was primarily American-manufactured iron and steel. Thousands of Minnesotans, who worked in the Iron Range's mines then, extracted the iron ore which built that mighty structure. Were they still alive, they would deserve to be very proud of what their hard labors accomplished.
I will complete my retrospective in my next Dayton's Account. Happy Holidays!
