Public Statements
Grand Forks Herald - Hurt
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 26, 2003
Location: Unknown

Grand Forks Herald

HEADLINE: Hurt
BYLINE: By Sen. Mark Dayton
DATELINE: WASHINGTON
BODY:
It is with a heavy heart that I decided to vote against the Medicare bill. I campaigned on the need for prescription drug coverage for Minnesota seniors. I said "something is better than nothing." But in this case, something is not better than nothing.
If the bill simply established a Medicare drug benefit, I would support it, even with a benefit were inadequate as this one. But this bill does far worse than that and will be very damaging for many seniors. As a result of this bill, 2.7 million retirees - including 40,000 Minnesotans - now covered under employer-sponsored plans will lose that coverage and be forced to accept the vastly inferior Medicare benefit. In addition, more than 7 million low-income elderly will have to pay more for less coverage as they get shifted from Medicaid to Medicare. This will affect almost 90,000 people in Minnesota.
The provisions to privatize Medicare starting in 2010 are scary and will lead to higher premiums for all beneficiaries. It also will force many seniors into HMOs, including residents in the St. Cloud, Minn., region, one of the areas that could be chosen in a privatization demonstration project.
Furthermore, there are no provisions in this bill to effectively contain prescription drug prices.
But perhaps the worst part about this legislation is that there is no longer an incentive for Congress to improve this bill. The original Senate bill included my "Taste of Our Own Medicine" amendment, which required members of Congress to receive the same prescription drug benefit as our seniors will under this bill. My amendment passed 93-3, but it was stripped out of the Conference Report. That should tell the American people everything they need to know about this Medicare bill: It is not good enough for Congress.
Although they are trying to sell this bill to seniors, members of Congress do not consider it good enough for themselves. This is the height of hypocrisy.
Our seniors deserve better than this.
Dayton, a Democrat, represents Minnesota in the U.S. Senate. The above statements are edited versions of statements that appear on the senators' Web sites.
