Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account - Energy Bill
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 26, 2003
Location: Unknown

YOUR DAYTON'S ACCOUNT
Energy Bill
My recent vote on the final House and Senate Energy Bill was a choice between two unappealing options: vote in favor of some very good and very bad energy policies, or vote against some very good and very bad energy policies. Weighing all of those good and bad features on my "Minnesota Scale," I decided that the bill's benefits outweighed its demerits, and I voted in favor of it. Outweighing them, unfortunately, did not eliminate them. "Democrats' Obstruction" has been blamed for the bill's failure in the Senate. It is true that there were more Democrats than Republicans opposed to it. Their opposition was fueled primarily by a special-interest bailout which the House Republican leadership insisted be part of the final bill. It gave retroactive immunity from all product liability lawsuits to the manufacturers of the gasoline additive, MTBE. I detested that provision and the bill's other attempts to weaken environmental protections. Those other measures can be remedied by a different Administration and a different majority in Congress. Otherwise, they will only get worse. On its positive side, the bill contains important incentives for wind, solar, and geothermal energy developments, for advances in hydrogen fusion, and other nascent energy alternatives. Senator Norm Coleman inserted an $800 million federal loan guarantee for a coal gasification project on the Iron Range, which its proponents have said will create 1000 jobs during construction and 500 jobs when operational. Those provisions are all very important to Minnesota; however, the greatest economic and energy benefits come from the incentives for "biofuels," ethanol and soy diesel. The increased use of those fuels will bring monumental benefits to farm incomes and to local economies throughout Greater Minnesota. Over half of our state's land is devoted to agriculture, and the total value of Minnesota's agricultural production ranks sixth highest among the 50 states. Eight years ago, the Minnesota Legislature passed a law which required every gallon of "gasoline" sold in Minnesota to contain 10 percent ethanol. It was controversial then, and opponents predicted disastrous price increases and supply disruptions. Those fears proved unfounded, and today that 10 percent ethanol requirement is unnoticed by most consumers. It is noticed, however, by farmers who sell their corn to nearby ethanol production plants. That additional demand for corn increases its price in the surrounding area by an estimated 7 to 15 cents per bushel. Ten percent ethanol, however, is just the beginning! With minor engine modifications by automobile manufacturers, cars and other vehicles using gasoline can run just as well on nearly pure ethanol. "E-85," a blend (badly in need of a better name!) of 85 percent ethanol and just 15 percent gasoline, is now commercially available throughout most of Minnesota. Cars like my Ford Explorer, which came with the necessary engine modification, can use "E-85" or, when not available, regular unleaded gasoline. That mass-produced automobile engine transforms ethanol from an additive to gasoline into a substitute for gasoline. E-85 emissions are less toxic than gasoline's; it is produced domestically from an annually renewable resource; and it presently costs 11 cents per gallon less than unleaded gasoline in Minnesota. For the first time in decades, this country has a new source of energy that can be produced in sufficient quantities to replace much of its costly oil dependency. Petroleum amounts to almost 40 percent of all U.S. energy consumption. It is a very expensive commodity, which costs us about $600 million per day, and two-thirds of it is used for transportation. Over half of it must be imported, which transfers over $110 billion of our wealth abroad every year. The benefits of paying that sum to American farmers instead of foreigners would be enormous. In Washington, the excitement over this phenomenal opportunity and the rush to develop it have been almost . . . nonexistent. Policymakers here do not yet understand the product or its potential. Oil and gas interests have done their utmost to mislead them with some of the same falsehoods used eight years ago in Minnesota. Nevertheless, due primarily to Senators Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Tom Daschle (D-South Dakota) and their enormous legislative clout, this bill provides the springboard for a gigantic leap ahead to a much better energy future for our country. This alternative, with its enormous benefits for Minnesota, was the compelling reason to vote for the bill. It did not pass the Senate. When we return in January, I will do my utmost to remove its worst features, retain its best ones, and thereby make my next vote for it a much easier decision.
