Public Statements
Dayton: Just in Time for the Holidays, Administration Wants to Deny 200,000 Minnesotans Overtime Pay
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 26, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Minnesota AFL-CIO joins Senator in blasting Administration for proposing to deny compensation to firefighters, police officers, and preschool teachers working over 40 hours a week.
Washington, D.C. - Today U.S. Senator Mark Dayton joined Minnesota's AFL-CIO in blasting the Administration for cutting a deal that will deny overtime pay protection for over 200,000 hardworking men and women in Minnesota according to the Economic Policy Institute. A proposed change in overtime rules is expected to be included in the FY 2004 government spending bill, which will be voted on in January. If the bill passes in its current form, families will be working more and earning less in 2004.
"This proposal is anti-worker, anti-family, and bad economic policy. In September, I joined with 53 other Senators in supporting an amendment that would have blocked this rule change, which will negatively impact millions of Americans including 200,000 Minnesotans," said Dayton. "In October, the House also voted to retain overtime protections. But these votes have been disregarded in another backroom deal between the Administration and the Republican leadership to benefit the few corporate interests.
"The President said when he came to Washington he was going to change the tone here, it has been exactly the opposite. It is their way or no way. The losers are the hundreds of thousands of Minnesotans who will be denied overtime pay. It is cruel, senseless and shameful."
"This Administration's relentless attacks on labor, including denying overtime pay, mean Minnesota families will be working more and earning less," said Minnesota AFL-CIO President Ray Waldron. "The Administration's actions take money directly out of people's pockets and family's budgets all across the country, and just in time for the holidays."
The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 requires employers to pay their employees time and a half for overtime work, but it provides a narrow exception for white collar employees in "executive," "administrative," and "professional" positions including: firefighters, police, air traffic controllers, probation officers, social workers, and preschool teachers. The Bush Administration's proposed changes will broaden this exception and enable employers to avoid overtime pay for more working men and women.
