Public Statements
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003-Conference Report
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 24, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG, IMPROVEMENT, AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2003-CONFERENCE REPORT
Mr. DAYTON. It is with a heavy heart I rise to speak against, and later vote against, this bill before the Senate. I campaigned in Minnesota on the need for prescription drug coverage for senior citizens. I said consistently I would vote for a responsible bill. Something was better than nothing. I voted a few months ago for the Senate-passed bill despite considerable reservations. It was better than nothing.
That Senate bill contained my "taste of their own medicine" amendment which would require Members of Congress to live with the same prescription drug coverage as we have for seniors and other Medicare beneficiaries. That amendment, which passed the Senate by a vote of 93 to 3, was stripped out of the conference report as, evidently, some Members were promised it would be. That should tell the American people everything they need to know about this bill. It is not good enough for Congress.
Some Members of Congress are trying to sell this legislation as good for seniors and other Medicare beneficiaries of America, but it is not good enough for them to live under. That is the height of hypocrisy. It is good enough for the senior citizens of this country, it is the best we will vote to provide for them, but, sorry, we will pass on it for ourselves. Why is Congress opting out of this coverage if it is so good? Why is it only half as good as what Members voted to provide themselves and their families and their employees?
First, the program does not begin for 2 years, not until January of 2006. Until then, the senior citizens of America are going to have their opportunity to get another drug discount card. There is a novel idea. There are only how many dozens available already to seniors?
This one plays special favorites. A senior with an income above 150 percent of poverty, approximately $13,000 per year of income and approximately $16,000 a year for a couple-they get a drug discount card and nothing more. A single senior with an income just under that amount, by even a couple dollars, or a married couple with an income similar, just a few dollars under that cut off level, gets a drug discount card plus $600. It is all or nothing. Either $600 or nothing.
I am strongly in favor of helping low-income retirees but certainly on a more equitable basis than $600 or nothing. That is all that is available for seniors for the first 2 years.
I would think the administration and others who decry the bureaucratic ineptitude and want to dismantle whole structures of Government would say something about this kind of ridiculous delay. Two years from passage to inception, for what? To give insurance companies time to write insurance policies? Or to shortchange seniors for 2 years to get the 10-year costs of the bill down? What is the reason for this ridiculous delay?
Whatever it is, if a program such as this cannot be initiated for 2 years, that is a compelling reason to junk this program and find one better. Seniors of Minnesota and America have waited too long already to get good comprehensive prescription drug coverage. They should not be told they have to wait another 2 years before the program can even begin. That should be reason itself to find another way.
When it does begin, what does the average senior get? He or she pays an annual premium of about $420 with an annual deductible of $250 and a 25-percent copay for the next $2,000 in expenditures in that 1 year. In other words, $500 of the $2,000 of costs. So if you add those up-$420 premium, the $250 annual deductible, the copay of $500, the senior is paying $1,170 of the first $2,250 annual costs for prescription drugs. In other words, just over half.
But the next $2,850 of the costs for that senior citizen in that single year have to be paid entirely by the senior, everything out of their own pockets. That means for the first $5,100 of annual expenses for prescription drugs-which is not, unfortunately, beyond the pale for many seniors-the senior citizen pays $4,020. The Senior pays for 80 percent of the first $5,100 of annual prescription drug expenses. Above that, catastrophic coverage kicks in and the program pays 95 percent of the balance for that year but then the next year it starts all over.
Something is better than nothing, but to delegate $400 billion over 10 years for coverage that seniors have to wait 2 years to begin and then they have to pay $4,000 of the first $5,100-all of that to save a little over $1,080 is something but it sure is not much.
If that were all the bill did, I still would support it reluctantly because something is better than nothing. Unfortunately, the bill does worse than that; 2.7 million seniors estimated by the Budget Office now covered under private plans will lose that private coverage and will be relegated to this coverage which is far inferior to what they have now. That would include an estimated 40,000 Minnesotans. People who worked all their lives for a private employer and are now covered under that plan would lose it and be shifted to something much worse for them and what they have now.
For over 7 million low-income elderly, the poorest of our poor senior citizens, they will pay more as they get shifted from Medicaid to Medicare. Their copay will increase and their choice of prescriptions will be reduced. That will affect almost 90,000 people in my State of Minnesota.
The worst result in this bill is a prescription for higher and higher drug prices for all Americans that all Americans will have to pay. All Americans will have to pay out of their own pockets for their own prescription drugs and they will have to pay out of their own pockets for this program and other Government programs because the way this bill is written, the drug companies profit and everyone else has to pay.
There will be no drug reimportation from Canada permitted unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies the safety of all, which is something that the Secretary's predecessors in the previous two administrations did not do and this Secretary has indicated he will not do either.
It is a totally unrealistic requirement to put on a Secretary to give a blanket certification of the safety of everything that would transpire.
If the Secretary of Transportation had to provide that kind of guarantee for all air travel in the United States, we would not have an airline network functioning because no one could be expected to give that kind of guarantee.
But the people who wrote this bill were very clever. They will not prohibit reimportation themselves, even though that is the result they want. No. They pretend the opposite, that it is permitted if-if-the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies safety, something they know he will not do.
The irony-or the absurdity really-is that according to Congressman RAHM EMANUEL, one of the coauthors of the reimportation bill in the House of Representatives, the United States imports $14 billion worth of foreign-made drugs into the United States every year-$14 billion of prescription drugs that are manufactured in countries such as Ireland and elsewhere that are imported into the United States and distributed to U.S. pharmacies and then sold to American citizens.
Those exact same drugs are manufactured in exactly the same plants, in the exact same countries, such as Ireland, and are shipped into Canada and distributed to Canadian pharmacists; and the only difference-they are exactly the same; the same product, manufacturer, packaging-the only difference is in Canada the price is one-third what it is in the United States or one-fourth what it costs in the United States or even as little as one-fifth or less than what it costs in the United States.
That is the only difference: the price. Yet all of my colleagues who are free trade proponents and those over in the House want to repeal NAFTA just for prescription drugs, which is one of the areas where the American consumer would benefit most decidedly, enormously, from NAFTA, from free trade, from the ability to go to another country and take advantage of those lower prices.
No. Sorry. Under this legislation, the result will be you Americans must buy your drugs in the United States, and only in the United States, at prices two or three or four times the world market price.
Now, why are the prices so much lower in Canada than they are in this country? It is because the Canadian Government stands up for its citizens and negotiates prices that are lower and will not agree to prices that are exorbitant. And their citizens are the beneficiaries of these prices that are one-third, one-fourth, one-fifth of what they are in the United States-not even close approximations.
People say the Government ought to act more like a business, and they are right. What we are proposing the Government would do is exactly what large corporations which self-insure or HMOs do, which is to purchase volumes of prescription drugs at negotiated discounts of 30 percent, up to 50 percent. It is exactly what my colleague BOB GRAHAM from Florida has pointed out, that the Veterans Administration does quite successfully, with fantastic savings for veterans and for the American taxpayers who pay for part of the cost of that program.
But not under this legislation. This legislation would prohibit what they call Government interference in price setting negotiations. Why? Well, once again, the words of the bill belie the intent and the result. It says: "in order to further competition." What deception that is. It says, let a bunch of small-competitor plans offer nickel-and-dime savings, but prohibit the Government from insisting upon and getting 5 times, 10 times that amount of savings, savings that would benefit everyone in America-seniors and everyone else. Those price reductions would be reflected in domestic market prices.
The critics call it price fixing. Well, there is price fixing now in this country. It is the drug companies that are doing the price fixing. They are given monopolies, called patents, for 15 to 20 years or more. They set the prices, they raise the prices, and we have to pay the prices. But that kind of price fixing, I guess, is all right according to some who want to prohibit the Government from doing so.
Does anybody really believe Americans are going to be upset about paying lower prices for prescription drugs? Does anybody think consumers in America are going to say: Government is acting in a way that I don't support? In fact, it will be the opposite. People will say: Wow, my Government is doing something for me. My Government is standing up for me against these big corporate entities that I don't have the ability to face by myself. I don't have that purchasing power. I can't go to a drugstore and negotiate price. Even as a pharmacist I can't negotiate a different price. My Government is standing up for me the way the Canadian Government is standing up for their citizens. By golly, my Government is doing something right.
But the people who wrote this bill are so anti-Government that they will not even let Government do something right. They will not even let Government do something that would have enormous financial benefit for all the people of this country that would save them billions of dollars of expenditures because I guess it might contradict their ideological absolutism that Government does everything wrong.
Well, it also might cost the drug companies, the largest contributors to the Federal political campaigns-it might cost them, I guess, some of their millions of dollars of profits, coming out of the pockets of people we are supposed to represent.
It is a big victory, this bill, for the corporate drug dealers. You have to give them credit. All those lobbyists-what is it? They estimate there are six times the number of lobbyists for the pharmaceutical industry for every Member of this body. Well, it sure paid off for them this time. They won everything. They got uncontained price increases for years to come, a market group, 39 million seniors who will have help pay them, who will pay those higher prices, and everyone else paying higher prices, and a captive market, where they are not even able to go someplace else and take advantage of lower prices elsewhere. The drug companies want everything.
The Medicare manipulators, they are the other winners. This bill is supposed to be about providing the best possible prescription drug coverage for senior citizens. Now we find out all these ambushes of various aspects of Medicare are tossed in that were not considered by the Senate, for which there were no hearings. And there were not votes on these matters. They were either put in the House bill or stuck in the conference committee behind closed doors where no one else could see what was going on.
The program reform in Congress has become like a drive-by shooting. With no forewarning, somebody picks a target, shoots a bunch of holes in it, and takes off. That is our version of reform. That is what we are doing here with no forethought.
Another example is special education. We have waited 3 years for so-called reform of special education, which is always used as the reason we cannot spend the money that is necessary to fulfill a 27-year old commitment. And then suddenly, last week, lo and behold, there was unanimous consent for 2 hours of debate, evenly divided, on IDEA reform, and, boom, we are going to have it done, boom, in time to go home and eat turkey.
Unfortunately, we produce enough turkeys right here with this legislation. Unfortunately, this bill we have before us is one of those turkeys. And I say that with no pleasure at all, given the importance of it. But this is a $400 billion turkey that gives first pickings and all the gravy to the corporate drug dealers and the big insurance companies and the big plan providers. Some seniors get the leftovers, and the American taxpayers get the neck and higher drug prices for themselves and higher payments through this program and others, subsidizing prices that are just exorbitant and that I would be ashamed to support.
There is a better bill that could be written. There is a better bill that could be passed. There is a better bill that could benefit the people of Minnesota and the people of this country. With a 2-year delay, we could come back next year and pass that bill and still enact it and get it implemented sooner than this one. That is the course of action we should take.
We should reject this conference report, not for nothing, but for something better because the American people deserve something much better than what is being foisted on them here.
I thank the Chair. I yield the floor.
