Public Statements
Energy
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 19, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

ENERGY
Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I appreciate the remarks of the Senator from Oregon and his thoughtful comments about the electricity section. I do think this legislation includes good language in that area that will be fair to all sides of electricity production.
I do believe, as a result of this legislation, we are going to have a better grid. There are incentives to expand the grid where it
is needed. In my part of the country, there have been significant investments in the grid already. We have a surplus of power. We are delighted to have more competition. We are delighted to work to have interconnectibility.
But my concern had been that this language, this section, was not written properly, that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission would have come up with a plan that would have forced ratepayers in my State to pay for additional transmission lines which would not benefit them. So it is a delicate balance.
It has been very hard to work through this with regional differences, with Senators on both sides of the aisle coming at it from a different viewpoint. But through the efforts of Senator Domenici and Senator Craig Thomas, and the interest of Senators such as GORDON SMITH and LARRY CRAIG, and the chairman in the House, BILLY TAUZIN, we came up with a good package. I appreciate the efforts of all concerned.
We will hear from the chairman and ranking member about details of this legislation. I am sure they will go into some of the specifics about policy decisions that were made in the electricity section and also give us detailed information about some of the tax policy, the tax incentives that were included in this bill.
I guess there is some sticker shock when we learn that the tax section would actually wind up being some $23.5 billion. But it is a diverse package and one that I do believe will produce more energy in this country.
It has a lot of incentives. Some of them will not produce that much, and I acknowledge that. Some of it I would not have included. Probably two-thirds of it I would not have included. But this is the art of legislating.
So I want to speak to the broader perspective of what we are doing.
We have not passed major energy legislation in the Congress for 10 years. The truth is, we have done very little since 1979, when we were dealing with lines at gas stations and unreliability of supply. Frankly, it has not been getting better over the years. It is getting worse. We are becoming more and more and more reliant on foreign oil for our energy needs-now well over 50 percent, probably headed for 60 percent. This is dangerous. We are relying on Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Venezuela, Nigeria, and other countries such as Canada and Mexico, countries on which it makes me very nervous that we are dependent for their oil to power this country.
This issue is about the future of America. Are we going to continue to be dependent on this foreign oil and, if we are, what will that mean for our economy if they decide to jack up the prices or cut off the supply, or if there is a change of government that produces uncertainty as we have seen to a degree in Venezuela, not to mention Iraq, of course.
That leads to the national security aspects. If we don't have a reliable energy supply, it will affect our ability to power our ships, our planes. I thought it was so ironic last year that we were involved in a direct conflict with Iraq and yet we were winding up relying on Iraqi oil which we brought to the United States, refined, and put in airplanes to bomb Baghdad. This is a dangerous situation.
What is the solution? Produce more energy supply of our own. The whole package, not just oil but, yes, oil. We have a lot of oil in America that is captured in these stripper wells, these small wells. We have natural gas that we could produce more of. What we have done in America is there is no incentive to produce it, and by the way, we have locked up lots of it. You can't drill in most of the Gulf of Mexico, not on the Atlantic or Pacific coasts, not in certain areas in the west. So slowly but surely we have stopped production in America.
This bill will produce some more oil and natural gas. We will be able to have greater use of coal because we are going to put an investment in clean coal technology. We are going to have more hydropower and, yes, more nuclear power. The cleanest power producers are natural gas and nuclear power. Why don't we encourage more of that?
And we have lots of incentives in here for alternative fuels: ethanol, biodiesel, whatever that is. We are going to use biomass, and some of that will be done in my State. I don't think it is going to produce a whole lot. I think it is going to eat up a lot of money. But we will look for alternative fuels, and that is good. So that is part 1: more production.
Some people say we don't need more production; we can conserve ourselves into an energy policy. How ridiculous can you get. What are we going to do, go back to just burning coal in the fireplaces? I used to have to bring in a scuttle of coal every morning before I went to school, and I didn't like it. It was cold to bring in the coal, and it was dirty burning. I never liked it. Well, what are we going to do? Just produce more blankets. They would probably be sent to us from China.
Let's get real. In conservation, yes, give incentives to people to better insulate their homes and to maybe buy more fuel-efficient and better appliances that don't create pollution. Let's include that. More production: let's go after alternative fuels. Let's have conservation. Let's have the whole package.
What will be the result? America will be more secure. Our economy will be stronger because this bill will produce jobs. You may say, well, they are not real jobs or maybe they are temporary jobs. A job is a job where I come from. Where I come from, if you want to eat and live and do well, you have to find a job. You take what you can get. This will produce over 800,000 jobs. This is a jobs bill.
It is about the future reliability of our economy, about the future of our national security, and it is about jobs, which will help our economy.
It is also about ensuring clean, affordable, and reliable energy-the whole package. I think we have good legislation here. We do have incentives in it for ventures such as geothermal energy. That will bring a renewable energy online, could create a few hundred jobs. We also are going to put a real emphasis on clean coal technology. We have an abundant supply of coal, and we are developing the technology to be able to use it, burn it, and in a clean way.
I commend my colleagues for producing this bill. It is like every legislative piece. It has a few warts on it. If you are expecting the perfect, this is not it. But we need to do this. We have been arguing about it for 3 or 4 years. The things that held us back in the past we did set aside. Now we are going to be able to get this legislation.
When you look back on this year, there is going to be a lot the Senate can take credit for having made a difference in the country-the tax bill, the partial-birth abortion legislation, energy legislation, and transportation bills.
I am glad we have this legislation. I urge my colleagues to support it. It will make a difference for the future.
I thank Senator Hutchison of Texas for putting together this opportunity for us to speak.
