Public Statements
Nomination of Maj. Gen. Robert T. Clark to be Lieutenant General
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 18, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

EXECUTIVE SESSION
NOMINATION OF MAJ. GEN. ROBERT T. CLARK TO BE LIEUTENANT GENERAL
Mr. DAYTON. I thank my colleague from Alabama. I had not intended to interrupt my distinguished colleague from Texas with whom I have traveled to Iraq and other places, but I misunderstood exactly where we were, given the subject matter that was being discussed. I apologize for the interruption. I will focus my remarks on this matter because it is one that is deserving of all the attention and concern of the Members of this body, and it is a very difficult matter, one that I wish we didn't have to confront in this Chamber and one I wish we didn't have to confront in this country.
But we do. We have a general with, generally, a very distinguished record, who now has been nominated for promotion to a very high office, commanding general of the Fifth Army. I have the greatest respect for the top echelon of our military command, as I have come to watch them, work with them, see their dedication and their professionalism and their compassion and concern for the men and women under their command. I regret having to raise these questions about any one of them.
But we have a dead American soldier on the other hand, a young man who lost his life while in uniform, while in the service of his country. He wasn't murdered in Iraq, as some of our brave soldiers are these days, or in Afghanistan, or somewhere else. He wasn't in a training accident, as some soldiers from Minnesota have been, in this country or abroad.
He was murdered. He was murdered by his own fellow American soldiers. His crime? His crime was that he was perceived and believed to be gay. I use that word "crime" rhetorically because I don't believe-I don't think Americans believe-that the sexual preference of an individual is a crime or should be a crime. It is not a crime in this country, punishable by death.
That can only happen in a country such as Iraq, or some country with a vicious totalitarian regime, where if someone is different in any way and somebody decides it is wrong, they are not only excluded by society or discriminated against, but they are harassed, tortured, or executed. But not in the United States of America.
However, it happened in this country at Fort Campbell, KY, in 1999, under General Clark's command. The soldiers who committed that terrible crime have been prosecuted, convicted, and are serving sentences.
The military system that allowed that atrocity to occur remains. It is a system which permitted a succession of actions-from taunts, humiliations, bullying, all sorts of prejudice, immoral and illegal behavior-to occur and recur. What happened as a consequence? Nothing. Nothing. Nothing, unfortunately, is what happens most of the time in the Army of this country today.
I am very proud of that Army in many respects, but I am not proud of an Army, or any other institution in this country, that permits discrimination against men and women because of their sexual preference. It is just that nothing usually happens when young women are assaulted and raped at the Air Force Academy-another matter we are dealing with on the Armed Services Committee. Their "crime" is that they are women.
Women have been admitted to the Air Force Academy for 30 years and have been flying side by side in airplanes, and taking all of the risks, and doing as well as their counterparts. But they are being assaulted and raped time after time. We have discovered that at the Air Force Academy, what has usually happened to the perpetrators of those crimes is very little or nothing.
These are impressionable young men and women in our Armed Forces-most of them. They are outstanding young men and women. I have interviewed a number of them. I think all of us have that responsibility. I find, when I have the opportunity to interview young men and women who are seeking admission to or nomination to our military academies, that they are really fine young men and women. There is a lot of competition to get in. When I have those interviews, when I am talking to other young men and women in uniform as I travel back and forth, I don't see these kinds of attitudes. I don't see young men and women who are looking at their fellow soldiers with this kind of prejudice or are considering these kinds of atrocities.
I just visited, in Minnesota over the weekend, a soldier who had one side of his arm shredded while serving in the Iraqi theater. He is recovering, thank God. He is a 21-year-old young man. He will recover. Another young Minnesotan lost most of his right leg, but he has great spirit and morale and he will live a great life.
But I have also visited parents of young men and women who are not recovering, who are not coming home because they paid the ultimate price for their service. I am on the Armed Services Committee, and when I look at the reports and the casualty figures of the brave young Americans who are being injured or wounded or maimed or who died in combat, I don't see categories of "heterosexual" or "gay" or "lesbian" and I don't see "women" or "men." I see American soldiers, with the same kind of blood and bodies. All they are asking is an equal opportunity to serve their country, to risk their lives in the service of their country-even to die in the service of their country.
Amazingly enough, that is what these young women who are going to the Air Force Academy, and the young men and women entering the Armed Forces, who have a same-sex affinity-that is what they want, the same opportunity to fight, to be heroic, and even to die for their country.
That is what makes it so inexplicable and inexcusable and unforgivable when they are discriminated against, when they are treated the way they are, and when they have nowhere to turn.
So who is responsible? Who is accountable? Who loses a rank or a promotion or a star because a gay soldier was murdered under his command? General Clark's actions following that atrocity were questionable and, I would say, barely marginal. General Clark's actions in many other instances throughout his distinguished career have been extraordinary, heroic, and commendable, and I salute him for them. But it wasn't only his actions after this atrocity that were called into question; it was the actions and inaction before this occurred, which permitted in this environment of opportunities for repeated discrimination and harassment-for an NCO who was clearly unfit to be responsible for impressionable young men who, by his own conduct-or misconduct-showed them how not to treat a fellow soldier. That is what concerns me about this today.
I expect we will confirm General Clark's promotion. He will go on, and I hope he performs with great distinction, as I believe he will, as a commanding general of the 5th Army. But what is going to happen to all the other gay and lesbian soldiers out there? What kind of message are we sending to them? What kind of message do we send to the young women who get raped at the Air Force Academy when they see those who commit the terrible acts being promoted? What happens to a military's network of people when those promotions occur untouched by these kinds of atrocities, and eventually they are the military command or they are throughout the military command? How are we ever going to change what is going on in these situations if no one is held accountable, if there is no consequence for not doing what a commander should do-what in some instances they are required by law to do?
Regardless, common sense and decency and morality would tell them that anybody responsible for the lives of young people ought to keep people from ganging up or abusing or assaulting or picking on or murdering a fellow human being-not to mention a fellow soldier but a fellow American citizen. What happens to all of us when we let that go on?
As I said earlier, I think the U.S. military is outstanding in so many respects. It is that institution where, historically, young men and women have been able to come from all over the country, all different backgrounds; it is the great opportunity provider. It doesn't matter if your parents don't have any money or if you don't have much education; you can find yourself and become somebody and either serve with great distinction and make it a career or you can come back into society and do just as well. But you are not going to be that kind of person or that kind of professional or that kind of citizen or leader of this country if you are learning that is what happens, and that is OK, and those who do it get promoted, and those who are the victims suffer the terrible consequences.
That is a terribly destructive message to those individuals, a terribly destructive result to our Nation; and if this body means the concerns it expressed here-and I take them at good faith, but if we mean that, we are not going to be satisfied, and we should not be, by doing nothing other than promoting this general today.
We owe it to those men and women who have suffered, and those who have lost their lives through these atrocities, to take responsibility and tell the military, because we are the civilian command, that we are not going to do it; the buck stops here because no one else will, that we are going to insist on an armed forces that reflects, represents, and defends the standards of the basic decency the founding principles of this country that all men and women are created equal, they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among them are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and the right to defend their country and be a patriot and not have somebody attacking them, humiliating them, or murdering them because of who they are.
That is the responsibility of leadership. That starts at the top, all the way down. It does not come from the bottom because that is where the base level is. It has to come from the top, from the commanders, from the civilians who are responsible for the system which they command and for those who are putting their lives, their hopes, their dreams, and their careers on the line. We have a lot of work to do.
I yield the floor.
