Public Statements
Executive Session - Thomas C. Dorr to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 18, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

EXECUTIVE SESSION
THOMAS C. DORR TO BE UNDER SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE FOR RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION
Mr. DAYTON. Madam President, I salute my colleague, Senator Harkin, for his outstanding principles and his considerable fortitude. This is not a pleasant task, and I know it is one that has been very difficult for my friend and colleague, my neighbor to the south, who at the time of this coming forward was the chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee.
Contrary to what some are perhaps alluding to, and what others observing this may suspect, this is not planned or contrived on anybody's part. In fact, it was the day of the Senate Agriculture confirmation hearing last year, Senator Harkin chairing-and I served as a member-the very day of the hearing, the largest circulation paper in Iowa, highly respected for its integrity and its veracity, ran a major investigative story about Mr. Dorr and set forth many of the references that Senator Harkin has just made, and others as well, detailing and making the charge and the case that Mr. Dorr had cheated the Federal farm programs; that he had misrepresented partnerships of which he was managing trustee; that he had misrepresented payments for what services they were being provided; and that he had falsified claims that he had signed as the managing trustee in order to get paid more public money from these Federal farm programs than he was legally entitled. It is not just for 1 year but for several years, not just one falsification but repetitive falsifications which resulted in determined overpayments of $17,000 for 3 years for one partnership. He himself testified before the committee that there were seven partnerships and there was a period of 7 to 8 years where these kinds of arrangements existed-those records, as others have said, not being available for examination.
Who brought these charges forward? Mr. Dorr's brother, also a partner in these family-owned trusts and farms, farming operations. He provided a tape recording of a telephone conversation to support these contentions he was making, and so we have on transcript Mr. Thomas Dorr's own words, his own statements about these matters.
At the end of that process of reviewing all of the information, I came to the conclusion, regretfully so, that Mr. Dorr does not meet the minimum requirements of honesty and integrity for the position he has now been recessed appointed to and is being considered for by this body today, and that his attitudes and his ideologies concerning the rural Americans he is supposed to serve make him an unacceptable choice for the Rural Development Under Secretary. I say that regretfully.
I served as State auditor for Minnesota for 4 years. I had the responsibility of upholding the public trust and oversight for the proper expenditure of State and local funds. I took very seriously the responsibility to approach these matters objectively, knowing I was going to be accused of being partisan, unprincipled, and unfair. I always tried to get the facts, set forth the facts, determine what the facts were, and let the facts make the determination one way or another.
I regret some of the assertions that this is a witch hunt or that it is unsubstantiated, and I refer to the Farm Service Agency's own letter, based on reviews both in 1996 and in 2001, which concluded that the arrangement between Mr. Dorr's Pine Grove Farms and each of these trusts-quoting FSA-was a crop share arrangement, not the custom farming arrangement it was represented to be.
It was on that basis that the trusts were required to pay some $17,000 in farm program payments they had improperly received for those years, but that did not occur until 2001 and in fact they were not even repaid until the summer of 2002, after Mr. Dorr had been nominated for this high office.
In fact, I have a letter from the USDA to Mr. Dorr dated June 5, 2002. Mr. Dorr, in his own comments to his brother, according to the transcript, admitted that what he had charged for a custom fee is not a custom fee, "it is actually crop rental income to me. That is my share of the income." Asked why he was following these procedures, he said it was to avoid a $50,000 payment limitation to Pine Grove Farms.
At another point the transcript says: Mr. Dorr, I, we filed away the farm, the trust land-both the Melvin Dorr trust and the Harold Dorr trust are operated with ASCS-to quite frankly avoid payment and limitations. Okay?
Now, we can all decide what to do with these facts, but I regret, for those who do not want to face them and claim they do not exist, we have a standard for this high office. Farmers in Minnesota, as do other farmers in this country, apply to this office for program funding. They deserve someone who can administer the programs faithfully because they have practiced them honestly.
