Public Statements
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2004-Resumed
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 17, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

DEPARTMENTS OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND INDEPENDENT AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2004-RESUMED
AMENDMENT NO. 2193
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, this amendment will provide $1.1 million in funding for the Paul and Sheila Wellstone Center for Community Building at the Neighborhood House in St. Paul, MN. It is funding for the completion of a commitment which Congress made last year as a memorial for the late Senator Paul Wellstone, my colleague and my friend, who lost his life in an airplane crash last October along with his wife Sheila, his daughter Marcia, and three staff members and two pilots.
This is a very emotional subject for me at an emotional time, so I ask my colleagues for their forbearance. We just passed the first anniversary of that terrible day Paul and Sheila and the others were lost forever. One of Minnesota's greatest Senators and most passionately loved and admired political leaders-not unanimous, but the most widely shared and deeply felt connection that I have ever seen in my lifetime between a political figure and the people of Minnesota.
He lost his life while flying to northern Minnesota for the funeral of the father of a State legislator, up on the Iron Range of Minnesota where a funeral is community. He knew, even though he had other commitments elsewhere, and even though Senator TED KENNEDY had graciously come to Minnesota to the metropolitan area on his behalf before the elections, which were just a few days away-those events were important, but Paul knew the family of the deceased would be helped in their grief by his presence. The community up there would be honored by his presence as a United States Senator, so he left his campaign schedule and the media market to go worship and pray and mourn with those others, friends and family and relatives, fellow citizens, as their U.S. Senator and as their friend.
That is what all of us do all the time in our jobs-Republicans, Democrats, liberals, conservatives, Senators here, Congressmen and Congresswomen, across the country-we drive, and if there is not time we charter small planes into small airports in our States. That day Paul's plane didn't land on the runway. It crashed perpendicular to it 2 miles away into a Minnesota forest and peat bog and caught on fire and burned eight people.
Tomorrow-another reason this is an emotional topic for all of Minnesota-we are told in the news reports today, the National Transportation Safety Board will hold a hearing to pass final judgment on the causes of that crash. Whatever they were, they will not bring Paul and Sheila and Marcia and the others back. The circumstances, as they are reported, are unofficial, so I will not comment on them here, but as they report them in the press, it will make it, if anything, more difficult, more painful, more awful an accident that didn't have to happen.
Paul Wellstone lost his life as a U.S. Senator in service of his country.
As the late Senator John Heinz, Republican from Pennsylvania, lost his life several years ago in a small plane crash in the service of his country; as other Senators, Members of the House, Governors, Cabinet Secretaries, and public officials have lost their lives in airplane crashes or other accidents in the performance of their official duties in the service of their country; and when brave men and women lose their lives in the service of their country, I call that man or woman a true American hero. If they are wearing the service uniform of our Armed Forces in Iraq, Afghanistan, or elsewhere around the world, they are true American heroes. If they are wounded or maimed when serving in those awful conditions, they are American heroes.
I have been to funerals for Minnesotans who lost their lives in training exercises in this country and overseas. They gave their lives and paid the ultimate price in the service of their country. They are true American heroes.
Paul Wellstone is a true American hero. He would have been under any circumstances losing his life, but he is even more so, and forever, in my judgment. That is why it is so fitting and appropriate-and I was glad that I thought it only appropriate-that the Senate last year did what I would want to do for any colleague of this body or of the House who lost his or her life under similar-or any-circumstances in the performance of his or her official duties-to find a suitable memorial, a fitting tribute to that American hero.
The surviving members of the Wellstone family-two sons, David and Mark Wellstone-through their own deliberations, identified this project and St. Paul, MN, where especially people from other countries-recent immigrants to the United States-in need of all sorts of assistance but who want to become part of this country, who want to have a chance to participate and raise their kids as American citizens and become the next Paul and Sheila Wellstone, so they can get the help they need and give a helping hand as Paul and Sheila would have given themselves.
We authorized $10 million. The House didn't have anything in there on that matter. But we went to the President of the United States. He was gracious enough to assist, and we got the funding provided in that bill-the authorization of $10 million. President Bush invited the Minnesota congressional delegation and members of the Wellstone family to the Oval Office last December for the signing ceremony. He just couldn't have been more extraordinary in his graciousness to the surviving members of Paul and Sheila's families. He took the time and extended his schedule to be with us, to share his condolences and make it a truly memorable occasion for the members of that family. I know they were enormously grateful, as I was to the President for his compassion and for his humanity.
When we got to the appropriations for this fiscal year, it was delayed. The bill that finally came forward provided $8.9 million for the $10 million project that was authorized. I am hopeful the balance of that commitment as a memorial to our former colleague will be part of the committee bill that is coming before us today.
I was disappointed there was nothing provided in it, and there is nothing provided in the House bill. I pursued this matter and indicated my intention to offer this amendment for $1.1 million-that is an "m" for million, not "b" for billion-$1.1 million to complete the commitment that was made-the authorization to commit the money the President authorized by his own signature into law. I was told via my staff and in talking with committee staff that if this amendment were agreed to by the Senate, then it would be taken out of some other project for the people of Minnesota-from the people in Roseville, MN, in the northwestern part of the State who were victims of flooding last spring, who need help in relocating, who are still rebuilding and trying to reconfigure the locks and dams in that river so they don't flood again-and from all sorts of other projects around the State in counties that need sewer systems so people can have safe drinking water, so the kids don't get sick.
I have to share with the people of Minnesota a confession. They think when they send us out here, we each have a vote; since we are all taxpayers, and since Minnesotans' taxes as a relatively high income State are proportionate to others that send tax money to this great Federal Government, we get back at least our fair proportionate share. But it doesn't work that way in this legislation. It doesn't work that way. We get the appropriations and those who have more seniority, who have been here longer, have more influence, connections, whatever-it doesn't come out the same. If you were to rank Minnesota with other States, you would find that we give more than our share in contributions to this great center of our Nation and we get in return relatively less than most other States.
I find it deeply offending that I am essentially being told, forewarned, threatened, that if I bring this amendment forward and it passes the Senate, it is going to come out of some other Minnesota project. I appreciate at least being told that so I know what I am getting into here.
So much happens in these conference committees. It is just a sneak attack behind closed doors. In Minnesota, we have an open meeting law where you can't go behind closed doors with three or four members of the elected body and conduct public business in private somewhere. That law is a foreign concept here on Capitol Hill; it happens all the time. People go behind closed doors and members of conference committees can't even get into the conference room to find out what is going on.
They have a bill coming up next for reauthorizing the FAA. Somebody in that conference committee stuck something in the bill that hurts the people of Minnesota-thousands of people in and around airports in my State-no hearings, no deliberation, no vote in the Senate, no vote in the House, just put in by Senators who don't represent the people of Minnesota.
The conference committees are great places where you can put something in there and you can vote on it. I had an amendment to the Medicare bill which is coming up, and it is going to come out of committee, I am told and I am quite sure. I have an amendment that would require Members of Congress to receive prescription drug coverage that is the same and is no better than seniors of America and other Medicare beneficiaries receive. Boy, it passed the Senate by a vote of 93 to 3. That is pretty overwhelming support.
I thought: My goodness gracious, the Senate is going to back this one because the people of America would back that one. I know from my experience in Minnesota that we sure agree with that concept and principle-that Members of Congress should receive a prescription drug benefit no better than we vote for senior citizens. But then I read an article the next week stating that many of those who voted for it had been told they could do so because it was guaranteed to die in the conference committee and it would not become part of the law.
I respect those three who voted against my amendment because they weren't going to take that escape route and say, Oh, I voted for that amendment, and to my great dismay it is not going to get conference support.
So Members of Congress can continue to get drug coverage twice as good or more or better than those senior citizens of America.
In this case, before this bill goes into the conference committee, I urge my colleagues-and I will ask for the yeas and nays on this amendment-if they don't particularly think enough of the situation, and circumstances, and the memory of Paul Wellstone, then vote against it. I will ask the conferees, if it passes and goes to conference and is going to come out of some other Minnesota project, to drop the amendment because I know what Paul would say. I know what he would want us to do. That would be to do what is best for all the people of Minnesota. This project is true to the people of Minnesota. But the last thing Paul Wellstone would want to do is take $1.1 million away from people who are suffering and need help and give it to other people in Minnesota in his memory. That would be the antithesis of what is good, for what he believed in, and what he spoke for on this floor. It would be far preferable if the Senate said forthrightly, that is the view of the Members or the powers that be, that $1.1 million of the $10 million authorized last year is too much to bear, too much money, and it is just not available in the budget for the people of Minnesota, for the State of Minnesota. Unlike other States, we would not have this discussion on the Senate floor-it would be $1.1 million for anything any Member wanted.
If they cannot find it, won't find it, do not want to find it, forget it. But tell the American people that. Tell the people of Minnesota that. Don't take it out of somewhere else in Minnesota for a project that is underfunded to begin with, that is needed to save people's lives, that makes their communities stronger. They elected the two Senators to do just as much as any other State in this Nation. Tell them that straight, and then Paul will wait. He should not have to, but he will.
The Senate should do the right thing, pass this amendment, put it in the bill, and instruct the conferees to come out of the conference report with the money for the Wellstone Community Center and every project in Minnesota, and not sell anybody out behind closed doors, behind our backs, and I will once again respect this body, the Senate of the United States.
I yield the floor.
