Public Statements
Governor Dayton Appoints Members to Mental Health Task Force
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 22, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Mark Dayton today announced his appointments to the Governor's Task Force on Mental Health, established through Executive Order 16-02. Appointees include Minnesotans who have experienced mental illness -- either themselves, or as a family member -- state and local government officials, mental health and other health care providers, as well as judicial and law enforcement officials. Together, they will work to identify gaps in our state's mental health system and propose comprehensive recommendations to design, implement, and sustain a continuum of mental health services throughout Minnesota.

"Too many Minnesotans are going far too long without accessing the mental health care they need," said Governor Dayton. "Those denials damage their overall health, their job opportunities, and their access to safe, affordable housing. This Task Force will provide the expertise and leadership necessary to address these serious challenges statewide. I look forward to receiving and acting upon their recommendations."

Over 200,000 adults and 75,000 children in Minnesota live with mental illness. Over the last five years, Governor Dayton and the Minnesota Legislature have invested more than $56 million in mental health initiatives, including $46 million for mental health crisis services, housing for adults with mental illness, funding to increase capacity at mental health facilities across the state, and initiatives to improve children's mental health. Additionally, Governor Dayton has proposed significant investments in the Anoka Regional Treatment Center and the Minnesota Security Hospital.

"This is a critical moment for our mental health system in Minnesota," said Department of Human Services Commissioner Emily Piper. "We have made advancements in the last year, but we need to continue moving forward on that commitment. I thank the Governor for his leadership to identify solutions that will address the gaps that exist in our mental health system, and help to ensure that all Minnesotans can access the treatment, services and supports they need."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/246665
