Public Statements
Executive Session
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 12, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I have learned politicians' priorities can be measured by their passions. What do they care about most? What stirs their souls? For that reason, the exultation of my colleagues across the aisle about this session, their fervor, their apocalyptic predictions, their press announcements, other than tax cuts for the rich and the super-rich, I have not seen that much passion across the aisle in my 3 years in this Chamber. Frankly, it does not do that for me.
My passion tonight is what my colleague from California said: to work on other matters. We would be far more aroused talking about how to put Americans back to work, the over 3 million who have lost their jobs since this administration took office less than 3 years ago. And not just a return to any jobs, but jobs that are the same as, as good as or preferably better than the jobs they held before. Not minimum wage jobs with no benefits, no health coverage for spouses and children, no pensions, no protections, no real future.
I would like us to talk about how we replace the 2.6 million manufacturing jobs lost in this country in the last 3 years, jobs moved offshore to someplace other than America. Many of them, I fear, are not coming back to America.
The majority of the Republican caucus leadership has the authority to decide the Senate's agenda and has decided we will spend 30 hours on 4 jobs. We have not spent 30 minutes on jobs for the other 3 million Americans out of work who are looking for jobs. We have not spent 3 minutes on jobs and survival assistance for the over 2 million Americans who cannot find jobs for so long that they have exhausted their unemployment benefits. Many are completely broke. If we do not provide them with some support soon, more will be completely broke.
Every time we have tried to bring up a bipartisan bill to extend unemployment benefits for Americans out looking for work, except one time last year, someone has objected across the aisle and we cannot proceed. No one has objected to spending 30 hours on 4 people, but we do not spend 30 seconds on most people affected by unemployment in this Nation.
