Public Statements
Statement on the Senate's 30-Hour Judicial Nominations Debate
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 12, 2003
Location: Unknown

STATEMENT BY SENATOR MARK DAYTON ON THE SENATE'S 30-HOUR JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS DEBATE
Politicians' priorities can be measured by their passions. They reveal what they care most about.
My Republican colleagues' zeal for their 30-hour Cry-a-thon is revealing. Most of them show little emotion when they vote against additional special education funding, against veterans' and seniors' health care, and against providing our Reservists and National Guardsmen and women and their families with comprehensive health coverage in return for their heroic service in Iraq and Afghanistan.
But they are as worked up about their 30-hour harangue about four unconfirmed judicial nominees as I have seen them about anything, except tax cuts for the rich and super-rich. They are entitled to their priorities. They are not, however, entitled to misrepresent the actions of their colleagues who differ with them about the desirability of giving those four nominees lifetime appointments to federal judgeships.
We have confirmed 168 of President Bush's judicial nominees. We have blocked confirmations of four others. That, contrary to accusations, is our Constitutional right. There is no Constitutional requirement that we bring judicial nominations to a vote by the entire Senate. Early in its 217-year history, the United States Senate established by its rules and procedures the rights of Senators individually and collectively to postpone or prevent Senate consideration of pending business, whether legislation, treaties, nominations, and other matters.
Our colleagues have every right to dislike or disagree with our use of those long-established Senate rules to block votes on those nominations. They are, however, absolutely wrong to assert we do not have the rights we are intentionally exercising. If they believed so, they could at any time ask the Senate Parliamentarian to so instruct us. They have not asked for such a ruling by the Parliamentarian; if they did, the Parliamentarian would rule decisively in our favor. They also assert that we are taking these stands on four of 172 nominees for no substantive reasons. That is also untrue. Take, for example, California Judge Carolyn Kuhl, who dismissed the suit of a woman who had undergone breast cancer surgery, was asked to disrobe in front of her doctor and another man, and then learned the stranger was a salesman for a drug company.
Judge Kuhl's dismissal of the woman's lawsuit was immediately overturned by a higher California court. That is one of several rulings which have convinced me she lacks the suitability for a lifetime appointment as a federal judge.
