Public Statements
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004-Conference Report
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 11, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2004-CONFERENCE REPORT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I rise today to join with my colleagues in support of this conference report, the national defense authorization bill for fiscal year 2004. At the outset, I express my appreciation and my utmost respect for the two outstanding leaders of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Chairman JOHN WARNER from Virginia and Ranking Member CARL LEVIN from Michigan.
When I was preparing to join the Senate 3 years ago, I asked two of my distinguished Minnesota predecessors, former Senator and Vice President Walter Mondale, former Senator David Durenberger, and my long-time friend and then-colleague-to-be, the late Senator Paul Wellstone, for their advice on committees to seek assignment. All three enthusiastically recommended the Senate Armed Services Committee for two primary reasons: First, it is of paramount importance with responsibility to assure this Nation's overwhelming military superiority now and forevermore; Second, the unparalleled opportunity to serve under, work with, and learn from the two incomparable committee leaders, Chairman Warner and former chairman, now ranking member, LEVIN. The advice of my fellow Minnesotans was prescient in both respects.
For all the attention that is given to this body's partisan differences and discord, what are usually overlooked, though fortunately much more prevalent, are the bipartisan professionalism, mutual respect, and shared commitment to do what is best for America, for all of America. That ethic is what predominates in the Senate Armed Services Committee. It begins with the personal conduct and professional relationship of these two extraordinary public servants and national leaders, JOHN WARNER and CARL LEVIN.
At any time in our Nation's history, but especially during the unprecedented circumstances of the last 3 years, since the September 11, 2001, attack, the two wars that followed and are still ongoing in Afghanistan and Iraq, our Senate and our Nation are exceedingly fortunate in the leadership of these two outstanding men, Chairman JOHN WARNER and Ranking Member CARL LEVIN. They have also led members on the Armed Services Committee, on which I am proud to serve, to pass legislation, first in the Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support and now in the conference with the House, with President Bush's civilian defense leadership and with our Nation's military command, Chairman Richard Myers and the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who serve this country with such great distinction.
As George Washington said in 1793, in his fifth annual address to Congress: "If we desire to avoid insult, we must be able to repel it. If we desire to secure peace, it must be known that we are at all times ready for war."
The succeeding 210 years have proven President George Washington's wisdom and the imperative that we follow that advice. With this legislation, we have continued that bipartisan commitment and upheld that most sacred trust, the protection and safety of our fellow citizens across this great Nation and, so much as humanly possible, throughout this world.
The final bill before the Senate authorizes $401.3 billion in budget authority for fiscal year 2004 with additional funding authorized for the acquisition of 100 tanker aircraft. The Defense appropriations measure, which this body has passed, which will come back in conference reports that we will pass again with overwhelming bipartisan support, will obligate most of that funding, which does not count the $67 billion in the recent supplemental appropriation for ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which means that, in total, in fiscal year 2004 we will spend over $500 billion for our national defense and military operations.
Some of my constituents would say that is too much. Some would say it is too little. It is unquestionably a great deal of money. As a great former Senator and colleague and member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Max Cleland, would say, $500 billion does not go as far as it used to.
But freedom is not free. Today, on Veterans Day, as we honor the brave men and women who have sacrificed their lives, their bodies-as Senator Cleland did-we are reminded once again that freedom is priceless and ever more expensive.
But the results in Iraq and Afghanistan should assure our Nation that the money we have spent has been well worth it and well spent. It has saved American lives in those theaters and it has saved the lives of other people in the world. It has protected the world from some of the most evil forces imaginable and from that most awful of possible occurrences, a nuclear catastrophe.
My fellow citizens should recognize that we are not, all of us, together, paying that price. We are borrowing it and passing most of the costs of its repayment to our children and our grandchildren. The projected fiscal year deficit for the Federal budget for the same fiscal year 2004 which we have just begun is estimated to exceed $500 billion. That happens to be approximately the expenditure for our national defense. It is not right to single out defense spending as the cause of that deficit. It is right, in fact, to single out everything as the cause of that deficit.
Regarding our spending and our tax policies, which the Concord Coalition, a coalition of business men and women and previous leaders of this Nation, recently called the most reckless fiscal policy in this Nation's history-4 years ago, in fiscal year 2000, the total Federal revenues coming from the personal income tax, the corporate tax, the excise tax, the estate tax, and the capital gains tax equalled, for the first time in 40 years in our Nation's history, the expenditures other than Social Security and part of Medicare which we call the on-budget expenditures, which include all of our expenditures for national defense, military operations, intelligence, and other ongoing activities.
For this fiscal year just completed, 2003, those revenues amount to only two-thirds of those expenditures. And next year, if projections hold, revenues will be even less than two-thirds of those expected expenditures.
I regret we live in a world where this much money must be spent on our national defense. I would rather we could spend the money on special education for all of our children, who are now still being left behind, and that it could be spent on student aid for our young adults, who are going tens of thousands of dollars into debt just to complete their undergraduate and postgraduate education.
I wish the money could go to buy prescription drug coverage for our senior citizens and other Medicare recipients that would be as good as what the Members of Congress receive. I wish we could provide health care to the 44 million Americans who receive no health coverage at all. I wish we could rebuild our highways and improve our mass transit systems, add to our bridges, and advance our infrastructure.
There is so much else we can do for the betterment of our citizens, but, unfortunately, there can be none of these homeland improvements without improved homeland defense. We cannot achieve national prosperity for all of our citizens if we do not first and always achieve national security for all of our citizens.
As I said, the experience of the last 3 years should assure all Americans that those national defense dollars are being well spent and that we are well served, well protected as a result.
In Afghanistan, the United States military accomplished, in 10 weeks, what the old Soviet Union could not accomplish in 10 years: the routing of the Taliban and the restoration of the beginning of a new government, a government of the people of Afghanistan.
In Iraq, it took only 3 weeks for the United States forces on the border to occupying Baghdad, the nation's capital. The difficulties that have occurred since then have not been the result of failed military strategy or its execution but, rather, the failure of securing the peace to catch up with winning the war.
Our Armed Forces, our fellow Americans-our sons, our daughters, our brothers, our sisters, wives, husbands, mothers, and fathers-in the words of the motto of the U.S. Army's Second Division, which I visited in April with Senate Majority Leader Frist, and others of my colleagues-are "second to none." The U.S. military is second to none. It is the best, the bravest, the most accomplished, intelligent, and patriotic armed forces anywhere in the world, anywhere in the history of the world.
I am especially proud, as a Minnesotan, of our State's and other States' reservists and National Guard men and women, who are now-many of them-on active duty serving in their second or even third tour of duty in recent years. They deserve our gratitude, and, more than that, they deserve our ongoing support.
It is very important, as others have noted, that this authorization provides for a significant pay increase for our Active Forces. It establishes, for the first time, the coverage on health care to some of the members of the Reserve and National Guard, those who do not presently have the opportunity to obtain that health coverage through their private employers, to be covered not just when they are on active duty-which they increasingly are-but year-round.
I viewed, on Sunday night, the ABC televised report that said of the reservists and the National Guard men and women presently serving in Iraq, only 54 percent indicated they would reenlist, which is understandable, given the severe circumstances they are experiencing there, as the chairman and ranking member and others of us, including myself, experienced briefly last July in that country.
I would expect that with the opportunity to return to home and families, that percentage would increase, but it underscores how imperative it is we create incentives for these courageous men and women, and for their families, and for their employers. They undergo the sacrifices that they must to be in the Ready Reserve and to step in, in these times of national emergency. We need to provide health coverage for them and for their families.
I salute the chairman and the ranking member and Senator Graham of South Carolina, who also spearheaded this measure in this Senate, who has assured me this is the first step toward securing, hopefully next year, complete coverage under the Federal health care system for all of our reservists and National Guard men and women because it is the right thing to do, it is the humane thing to do, and it is the best thing we can do to offer them a reason to reenlist, to stay a part of keeping this Nation as strong as it must be.
They are taking awfully good care of us. It is imperative that we take as good care of them as we possibly can. The same measure of standard should apply to our veterans who have served us formerly who are now moving on in years.
I note, as others have, with great appreciation, the outstanding efforts of the Senate Democratic assistant leader, HARRY REID of Nevada, who has championed the concurrent receipts for all of our veterans who have suffered disabilities, who reach the age where they also are eligible for Social Security and other retirement benefits.
Why they should be penalized, unlike anyone else in the private sector or the public sector, is beyond me-those people who have served and who have paid the price with their own physical infirmities, wounds, sometimes maimings.
Today I was at the Korean War Memorial with a group of Minnesotans, some of whom could not walk and were in wheelchairs-amputees because of the wounds they suffered fighting for this Nation's freedom and the security of the world in Korea over half a century ago. Why they should be penalized now in their older years for that service, for what they earned, and what they paid for with the price of their own bodies, is somewhere where we still, as a nation, have fallen short in our responsibility to them.
To phase it in, with all due respect to all of us who made this effort-but against the fervent opposition, which I do not understand, of the administration, to immediately correcting this injustice-to phase it in over 10 years, to me is unconscionable-indefensible and unconscionable.
We have put tax relief for the wealthiest people of this Nation in place and made it retroactive. We have tax relief coming in and out and in and out and back again within the same 10 years we are talking about phasing in this deserved benefit-earned benefit-for our injured veterans of America.
That is another critical task that I know this body, which passed it overwhelmingly last year-and the efforts of the chairman and ranking member of this committee, if they had been able to prevail, would have been applied fairly and immediately to all of our disabled veterans. But it is a task that all of us must undertake again next year.
There are important measures in this legislation that benefit the State of Minnesota, as other States. What is most important is that this is a measure that benefits our entire country.
I would say again that the bipartisan spirit of the committee, of the Senate, with regard to national defense, both before but particularly during most of the 3 years I have been in the Senate, which has included the post-9/11/2001 era, has been probably my proudest participation in the Senate because we are first and foremost, all of us, Americans.
Even those disagreements that sometimes preoccupy us, that capture the headlines, that seem to be the description of this great body, are, in fact, as our distinguished Democratic leader, TOM DASCHLE, has reminded us regularly, the noise of democracy.
It is because we can all stand in this body and express our views and agree or disagree, hopefully, respectfully, with one another. Regardless, that we can do so, and go home to our families, to return the next day to offer our best judgments and ideas, again without fear of incarceration or execution or obliteration-that is what is priceless about this Nation. That is what this bill is intended to preserve.
I believe that the committee, and the conference committee, the men and women serving in our Armed Forces, the civilian leadership of this country under President Bush and his civilian defense leadership, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the command of the military of this country, for whom I have felt the greatest respect and regard-I think our fellow Americans can sleep well tonight with the knowledge that they are being well protected.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
