Public Statements
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense and for the Reconstruction of Iraq and Afghanistan, 2004 - Conference Report
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 3, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT FOR DEFENSE AND FOR THE RECONSTRUCTION OF IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN, 2004—CONFERENCE REPORT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, it is a sad and somber day to consider the conference report on the $87.5 billion supplemental appropriations for the continuing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yesterday was the worst loss of American lives in any day in Iraq. Sixteen American soldiers died in a helicopter brought down by a ground-launched rocket. Twenty others were wounded in that horrible moment. Another U.S. soldier was killed when his Humvee was ambushed by a roadside bomb in Baghdad.
Another convoy was attacked in Fallujah, a city west of Baghdad. One U.S. vehicle was destroyed and no casualties were officially reported. Yet another attack on that city killed two American civilians and wounded one. In Abu Ghraib, a western suburb of Baghdad, U.S. soldiers and residents reportedly fought in the streets. The residents said at least one American soldier had been killed, along with several Iraqis. That is in one terrible day.
Our deepest condolences and prayers go out to the families and friends of those brave Americans who gave their lives in the service of their country, as those who have lost their lives before them.
I will support this additional funding for one primary reason, and that is to win this war in Iraq, to secure lasting victory there and in Afghanistan, and then bring our American troops home as quickly as possible. That should be a goal we can all agree on, something that unites us all in this Chamber and as Americans. Let's do what we must to secure our military victory, to establish the framework for continuing success there, and then let's get our troops home as soon and as safe as possible.
Whether we agreed or disagreed with the decision to start this war, we are in it now. Whether or not weapons of mass destruction are eventually found, whether they were there before or not, whether international terrorists were there or not—none of these questions, nor their answers, nor the debates over them, change or will change the situation we are in today, which is that 138,000 of our sons and daughters are in Iraq because they were sent there. They are risking their lives. Some are fighting for their lives. Some are losing their lives to carry out the orders they have been given to fulfill the mission they have been assigned. They have done so courageously, heroically and, to this point, successfully. This supplemental funding gives their Commander in Chief almost everything he asked us for. It gives the military command everything they asked us for, gives the soldiers everything they need to complete these assignments successfully, to accomplish their mission victoriously, as quickly and efficiently and completely as possible, and we do so because they must succeed.
Our country must succeed. We must prevail in the very difficult circumstances in which we are entangled in Iraq. We must win a lasting victory there militarily, economically, and socially. We must succeed and establish a new Iraqi government, which will be able to itself succeed after we leave. We must assist and enable the Iraqi people to succeed now and after we depart. We must win this war we started because the consequences of failure would be catastrophic. Failure is not an option—not for our sake, not for Iraq's sake, not for the world's sake. We must not lose this war.
I speak as somebody who voted against last year's congressional resolution that authorized the President to start this war. I thought it was premature a year ago last October. I thought it was unconstitutional. I thought it was a mistake, that it would weaken, not strengthen, our national security. I said then I hoped I was wrong. Today I don't believe I was, but that is irrelevant to what we face today—that we are fighting a war in Iraq. The Americans and the Iraqis who are supporting them there are fighting for their lives, and we must win the war and secure that peace so we can leave that country with a victory that will last.
Failure, pulling out now or at any time, followed by the collapse of that country—whatever government, whatever resulting civil war or anarchy, or if a return to power by Saddam Hussein would occur—would be a disaster for Iraq and for us. It would be devastating to our national security, to our standing in the eyes of the world, to our ability to lead that world.
Failure is not an option, so we must proceed and succeed. How? I have my ideas. Everyone else in the Senate has his or her ideas, and House Members have their ideas. Every retired general has lots of ideas. What matters most is what are the ideas of the Commander in Chief. What is his plan of action? What must be accomplished? What is the measure of our success? What is the intended timetable for reconciling and accomplishing them?
To the question he was asked at the press conference last week, would he guarantee there would be less than 200,000 troops in Iraq a year from now, he replied, "That is a trick question." That is not a trick question. It is essential. What is the timetable for the men and women serving over there, suffering over there, fighting and dying? What is the timetable to bring them home with a victory accomplished? Those are questions that deserve answers. They deserve truthful answers because, for $87 billion, the American people—all of us—deserve to be told the truth. Mr. President, $87 billion is a lot to pay for the truth. It is way too much to pay for partial truths or fabrications or misrepresentations or outright lies.
This administration must tell us the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth, the good, the bad, the ugly, and the successes and the nonsuccesses. If not, the credibility of those who are in command will suffer. That loss of faith and trust in our leaders is something we cannot afford—ever—in this country, but especially not now.
On last Saturday, a U.S. commander said that the opposition's attacks are "strategically and operationally insignificant." What are we supposed to believe the day after the most damaging, fatality-filled day of the war for Americans?
When Democratic Senators were not allowed to travel to Iraq during the last recess to see firsthand, as I was able to do with the Presiding Officer and a bipartisan delegation in July, when Democratic Senators are not allowed to see for themselves what is actually going on in that country, then what are we supposed to believe when what we are told by others turns out not to be true, such as when we are told, as we were last August, that 95 percent of that country is now peaceful and is secure, and these atrocities continue day after day taking the lives of Americans and maiming and wounding others. Tell us the truth.
Secondly, it is imperative that the administration spend this $87.5 billion well and spend it wisely. The President insisted that all the money for economic and social rehabilitation be grants, not loans, as a majority, myself included, in the Senate would have preferred. The fact they are grants is all the more reason to make sure all those dollars go to get the job done as soon as possible because American troops' lives are depending upon it, because every day they don't come home is a day more casualties are likely to occur.
Any company, any individual, any American corporation, or American citizen who is taking money under those pretexts and is not putting that money to its proper use is a traitor to this country and to the cause for which those men and women are fighting and risking and giving their lives.
The reports we have read of rampant overcharging by certain companies, egregious overcharging for the price of oil that is being transported into that oil-rich country, reports of kickbacks and bribes necessary to secure contracts, reports of sweetheart deals being arranged, no-bid contracts being awarded, of people in Washington setting up shop and telling those who want contracts over there that the means to achieve them, not because they are well qualified, but because they have higher up connections—that would be an abomination. It would be a waste of taxpayers' money. It would be a desecration of the memories of the men and women who have given so much on behalf of our country there, and it would delay—and this is what is most unforgivable—it would delay the achieving of success that is necessary to bring our men and women home with a lasting victory achieved.
We must get rid of Saddam Hussein. When I was in Iraq last July, I was told by a commanding general it was an urgent priority, an urgent necessity to remove him and his two sons from power permanently by whatever means necessary. The military of the United States is two-thirds of the way toward that objective. The people of Iraq must be assured, and every day they are not again delays our success. They must be assured Saddam Hussein will not return to terrorize that country ever again.
Finally, we must treat our Armed Forces in Iraq as well as we possibly can during and in the aftermath of this war, and those fighting in Afghanistan as well. I am very pleased that the conferees included an amendment my colleague from Minnesota, Senator Coleman, and I sponsored that earmarked $55 million of this appropriation for the travel costs of troops to come back to the United States, to cover their airfare to their homes and back, whereas previously they were being forced to pay that airfare themselves to get back to their families and loved ones. Most of them, in fact, from Minnesota who are serving now have had their tours of duty extended from 6 months to a year, after they arrived in Iraq with no recourse, no opportunity to make those arrangements back home, except after the fact. So the chance to come home for 2 weeks is crucial for them, for their spouses, and for their children.
Given the financial sacrifices many of them have incurred by virtue of leaving better paying jobs, sometimes losing small businesses they had underway, incurring those financial hardships are such that even a round-trip plane ticket can be an almost prohibitive expense. It seems to be the least we can do and should do and, according to this bill, are going to do to thank them and give them a chance to connect with their families before they go back to again risk their lives in Iraq.
I am glad to see included an amendment that Senator Graham of Florida proposed, which I was also pleased to cosponsor, that will prevent the Pentagon for charging our wounded soldiers for the cost of their meals and hospitalization or rehabilitation. It doesn't seem it should be necessary, but given they are paying that price for their service, the least we can to is feed them at our expense.
I am also pleased the conferees included the requirement that each member of the Reserve or National Guard who is serving in Iraq on active duty has to be informed in writing when their tour of duty will be concluded so they and their families will know when they can count on their return.
I strongly urge the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that the period of demobilization, the time from when troops, especially those who are going to be deactivated, Guard men and women, reservists, from the time they arrive back home and the time when they are released to their families, homes, jobs, that time be kept to an absolute minimum—days, at least a week or two, rather than the weeks and months I am told typically it takes. It is important we treat these men and women well for what they have given on behalf of their country so that we retain their services for future needs.
I support this supplemental appropriations with the regret that it is necessary but the resolve that it is what we must do to achieve victory. I want to be able to face our fellow citizens with the assurance that it is money that is needed, money that is going to be spent as it was appropriated, and money that is going to be spent as it was intended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator's time has expired.
Mr. DAYTON. I ask unanimous consent for 1 minute to conclude my remarks.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I want us to walk out of that situation with our heads held high—on which the hopes and dreams of the Iraqi population now depend—with the victory and success we want to achieve, with the result we want to give the Iraqi people—a democratically elected government, a country that has hope and means for a better future and which restores this country's standing in the eyes of the rest of the world, the stature, the respect we have had and that we deserve to have and that we must have to be the leader of this world in the years ahead.
I thank the Chair. I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
