Public Statements
Mayor Hodges Launches Minneapolis "Talking is Teaching: Talk, Read, Sing" Campaign
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 21, 2016
Location: Minneapolis, MN

Mayor Betsy Hodges announced today the launch of the "Talking is Teaching: Talk, Read, Sing" campaign to boost the early brain development and language skills of children in Minneapolis from birth. "Talking is Teaching: Talk, Read, Sing" is a community-wide effort with promotion from Too Small to Fail, a joint initiative of The Opportunity Institute and the Clinton Foundation. People Serving People hosted the launch event.

"Talking is Teaching: Talk, Read, Sing" aims to motivate parents and caregivers to talk, read, and sing more with young children, starting at birth. Nearly 60 percent of American children begin kindergarten underprepared, lagging behind their peers in critical language, math, and social-emotional skills. Research shows that simple, everyday interactions with young children -- such as describing objects seen during a walk or bus ride, singing songs, or telling stories -- can build their vocabularies, prepare them for school, and lay a strong foundation for lifelong learning.

"Encouraging early brain and language development is a crucial step toward securing the futures of our young children," said Mayor Hodges. "We want to establish a culture in Minneapolis that we talk, read, and sing to young children. Science has told us clearly that this simple step can help prepare our children for brighter futures."

"Ensuring Minnesota is a state that works for everyone, everywhere, begins with our youngest learners," said Governor Dayton. "I applaud Mayor Hodges for her leadership on this new program, which will help to close educational achievement gaps in Minneapolis. We must continue working together to ensure all Minnesota children have a strong start, and the opportunities they need to succeed in school and in life."

"We are thrilled that the City of Minneapolis is joining this national movement to support early brain development as our eighth Talking is Teaching city and look forward to working with the Mayor's Office and local organizations to support families in the area," said Kara Dukakis, Director of Too Small to Fail at The Opportunity Institute.

"I am excited that we have so many amazing partners invested in this campaign," said Mayor Hodges.

The Talking is Teaching campaign is partnering with trusted messengers, including the Reach Out and Read program, which works with pediatricians and clinics to promote early literacy in clinic settings; philanthropic partners including Greater Twin Cities United Way, which has provided grant funding to help support the campaign; Cradle to K stakeholders; and many other community partners.

These partnerships will support parents and provide them with the tools and resources they need in order to assist in the early brain development of their babies and very young children. Some of these partners will distribute Talking is Teaching materials directly to families, encouraging parents to talk, read, and sing with their children. Other partners have made active commitments to support young children and parents by donating books, holding employee book drives, hosting parent engagement sessions, training parents to become Talking is Teaching parent ambassadors, and helping to share information through social media.

As part of the Minneapolis Talking is Teaching campaign launch week, The Fred Rogers Company and Twin Cities PBS (TPT) will be hosting parent engagement sessions to help spread the word about the importance of early learning with the stars of Peg + Cat, the Emmy Award-winning animated children's series. Events will be held from June 21 through June 24 in collaboration with YWCA Minneapolis, Way to Grow, Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota and Hennepin County Library.

The City is also partnering with Landscape Structures, a company headquartered in Delano, MN. Landscape Structures manufactures innovative commercial playground equipment for schools and parks. Landscape Structures will develop Minneapolis' first literacy playground which will integrate Talking is Teaching conversation prompts into the playground design.

Talking is Teaching will include a community-wide multi-media campaign reinforcing these messages, including bus ads, billboards, and media spots.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/246477
