Public Statements
Tribute to the Late Senator Paul Wellstone
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Oct. 24, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

TRIBUTE TO THE LATE SENATOR PAUL WELLSTONE
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I want to thank the distinguished majority leader for setting aside time today for those of us who wish to share our tributes and thoughts regarding our colleague who, 1 year ago tomorrow, passed away in a tragic plane crash, Senator Paul Wellstone.
Paul was a friend of mine for over 20 years and my colleague, mentor, and partner here for the first 2 years of my term. It is hard to believe it was a year ago now that he boarded a small charter plane to go up to northern Minnesota and somehow, impossibly and horribly, it crashed as it was trying to land there. It was demolished by the impact and by a fire that killed all eight people on board—Senator Wellstone; his wife and partner of 39 years Sheila; his daughter Marcia; the associate chair of the Minnesota Democratic Party, Mary McEvoy; and two of Paul's trusted aides, Tom Lapic and Will McLaughlin; as well as the plane's two pilots.
I have felt deep sadness and futile anger many times as I have entered this Chamber during the past year and as I walk by Paul's desk—which to me will always be Paul's desk. I have always felt his absence at caucus lunches, committee hearings, and policy debates. Always I miss his courage, his eloquence, his passion, and his deep caring for other people and their well-being, especially for all the people who have most often been ignored or forgotten in the stampedes of the rich and powerful, which occur regularly around here.
Thousands of Minnesotans and other Americans have felt similar grief, despair, anger, hopelessness, and profound loss during this past year. No one in my lifetime has meant so much to so many people in Minnesota as Paul and Sheila Wellstone.
Paul once wrote that politics is not about left, right, or center; it is about speaking to the concerns and circumstances of people's lives. Paul practiced what he preached. He was both by gut instinct and by reasoned conviction a man of the people. The rich and the famous held no special sway over him. Senatorial trappings, perks, and offerings did not appeal to him.
Instead, he was drawn to the real people, everyday Americans going about their business in their homes, schools, farms, offices, and union halls. They were the people who aroused his personal passions and instructed his political purposes.
Their misfortunes became his causes. Their injustices forged his remedies. Their hopes and dreams inspired his orations. He was their Senator, their champion, and their hero.
Paul liked to say he was the Senator for the little fellows, as he jokingly pointed at his own height. He may have been short, but he was in every other respect a big, big man, with a big heart, big ideas, big courage.
He became a towering political leader. His popularity and prestige were enormous in Minnesota, and they were growing nationwide, especially with people who were hungry for real leadership. Had he lived and had he won reelection, his star would be shining even more brightly than ever before, which is why the darkness surrounding his absence is so hard to bear for his family, his friends, and his followers.
His best was still to come. He understood, as he said, that people yearned for a politics that speaks to and includes them and that offers them something real. As Paul admonished his colleagues, especially those of us in his own caucus, the question is not how to communicate our agenda but whether we have an agenda worth communicating. Paul did.
Nothing illustrated better his greatness, his unfailing ability to rise up to the challenge, to summon his courage, and to act rightly than one of his last votes in the Senate a year ago. The Senate was about to begin its consideration of a resolution authorizing the President to initiate military action against Iraq. Paul was in the final weeks of a very tough reelection contest against my distinguished colleague from Minnesota who is presiding at this moment, and many of his friends and political advisers were urging Paul to support this resolution. Doing so, they said, would assure his victory. Voting against it, they warned, could seal his defeat.
Paul was still wrestling with this decision when an article appeared in one of the Capitol press reports which quoted an unnamed Senate aide as saying the Democratic caucus was trying to devise a political cover to help Paul and others in close reelections finesse this tough vote.
At a caucus meeting later that day, Paul was as furious as I had ever seen him. He wasn't seeking anyone's cover, he fumed.
He had never tried to duck a difficult vote, and he refused to do so now. He finished by saying: Whether Minnesotans agree with my decisions or not, they know I am doing what I believe is right. If I lose that trust, I have lost everything.
He left the meeting and went straight to the Senate floor and gave a powerful speech announcing he would vote against any resolution which gave the President complete and unilateral authority to start the war in Iraq.
In the following days, his last days on Earth, Paul was the most relaxed and upbeat I had seen him since his reelection campaign began. He was, of course, delighted with what he said were poll numbers which had boosted his standing after making that speech but, more importantly, he knew he had done what he believed was right. Principle had again prevailed over expediency. His integrity, his courage to stand up for his convictions, and his inspiring eloquence in speaking the truth were the essence of what he offered to the voters of Minnesota, and he knew he had reestablished that connection, that special bond that he and only he had with so many Minnesotans.
He boarded that plane a year ago tomorrow, hopeful and optimistic of a victory in 11 days. That we will never know. But I say: Paul, you were right. You were and you always will be a winner.
Ernest Hemmingway, in his book "Farewell to Arms," wrote:
Few men are willing to brave the disapproval of their fellows, the censure of their colleagues, the wrath of their society.
Moral courage is a rarer commodity than bravery in battle or great intelligence. Yet it is the one essential vital quality of those who seek to change a world which yields most painfully to change.
The Senate body recognized Paul's rare greatness last year by authorizing $10 million for a project selected by Paul and Sheila's two surviving sons, David and Mark Wellstone, the Neighborhood House in St. Paul. Mr. President, $8.9 million was appropriated for fiscal year 2003 through the good efforts of my colleague, Senator Coleman. He and I share the hope that the remaining $1.1 million, to fulfill the Senate's commitment, will be appropriated for fiscal year 2004. It is a wonderful project, and it will benefit many people in Paul and Sheila's name for many years to come.
We can do something even more significant, even more befitting Paul's memory. We can pass the legislative initiative that was closest to his heart and to which he devoted himself in the last 5 years of his life, and that is mental health parity.
Senator Domenici, whose personal dedication to this just cause equals Paul's, has carried that torch forward. He has been joined by Senator Kennedy who, like Paul, has also championed so many efforts to help those among us who are most in need. Senator Domenici informed me this week he is optimistic the bill will be considered by the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee within the next 2 weeks, and hopefully will be passed out of that committee and put on the Senate calendar where it might even be taken up and acted upon this year.
That is incredibly good news for Paul and Sheila's families for whom this means so much. It is incredibly good news to the many organizations throughout the country that have joined to help support and enact this critically important and needed legislation. It is most incredibly good news to the many Americans who will benefit from it, who will finally have access to the health care they need at prices they can afford.
Even then, however, the bill faces major obstacles. The House leadership is reportedly opposed to it; the White House is supposedly against it; the insurance companies hate it; and many health care providers would also prefer that it just not be passed.
So nothing has changed down here, Paul. It is the same battle: Profits for the bigger fellows versus services for the little
fellows. Only this time, Paul Wellstone will not be able to champion the cause for the little fellows. He cannot come to this Senate floor every month, week, or even every day, if necessary, to remind us, to challenge us, to cajole us, to do what is best for most of our constituents. So all of us must do it without him and do it for him. Surely we can find it within ourselves to vote once for something to which Paul gave his entire life, and his life itself.
So, my friend and colleague, we will go on missing you. We will do our best without you to advance the causes which you have championed.
Somehow saying "rest in peace" does not seem to fit your style. So instead, I hope there is a great debating hall up in heaven, that you are seated with other great Senate voices such as Daniel Webster and Henry Clay. I hope your microphone cord is long enough for you to roam while you speak and that there are no time agreements limiting debate. Please keep your eye on the rest of us down here and, if you can, send us a little of your wisdom and your inspiration, especially when we face the choices between principles and expediency, profits and people, between what is easiest for us and what is best for everyone else, the people we are elected to serve. Keep reminding us, if you will, that as once said, inasmuch as ye have done so unto the least of these thy brethren, ye have done so unto me.
I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.
