Public Statements
NBC Today - Transcript
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Oct. 17, 2003
Location: Unknown

NBC News Transcripts
SHOW: Today (7:00 AM ET) - NBC
HEADLINE: Carol and Rob Nassif talk about Luke, the Chinese boy they want to adopt who has heart problems; Senator Mark Dayton, Democrat, Minnesota, discusses what he's trying to do in order to persuade the Chinese government to approve the adoption
ANCHORS: ANN CURRY
BODY:
ANN CURRY, anchor:
A Minnesota couple is fighting to adopt the three-year-old Chinese boy they've cared for through three heart surgeries. Luke lives with Carol and Rob Nassif in Rochester, Minnesota. The Chinese government says Carol and Rob must travel to China to finalize the adoption, a trip that doctors say could threaten Luke's life. They're asking the Chinese government to make an exception in this case. The Nassifs join us this morning with Luke, Angela and Zoe at home in Minnesota, and their senator, Mark Dayton, is helping them from Washington.
Good morning to all of you this morning.
Ms. CAROL NASSIF: Good morning.
Mr ROB NASSIF: Good morning.
Senator MARK DAYTON (Democrat, Minnesota): Good morning, Ann.
CURRY: Good morning. Let's talk first to you, Carol and Rob. You know, Luke, as I understand, was found abandoned in a train in China. Because he suffered--he was so sick, he suffered so much of an illness they--they--an agency brought him to the United States to help him get medical care. How did you meet him? How did you fall in love with him, Carol?
Ms. NASSIF: We were actually waiting to adopt a child. We were approved for a domestic adoption here. And we had told many of our friends if they knew of anyone who had a child to adopt to let us know. And my secretary at work happened to find out about Luke and called and told us about him.
CURRY: And I understand with you, Carol, it was love at first sight.
Ms. NASSIF: Oh, it was love before we even saw him. We were committed to him before we even--even got to lay our eyes on him.
CURRY: And Rob, I know that he's--you describe him as a--as a boy who's outgoing, he's a very active child, he loves to sing. He's having a hard time just staying sti--sitting still in his--in Carol's arms. He--he loves to draw. And he loves to get into other people's...
Mr. NASSIF: Yep.
CURRY: ...things.
Mr. NASSIF: Yep.
CURRY: What else can you tell us about him, Rob?
Mr. NASSIF: He's just a super little guy. He's top-notch, man. He--he's just like any other three-year-old at this point in time, running around, playing, goofing around. He's inseparable from his sisters, especially Zoe, he spends all day with her, hip to hip.
CURRY: You call him...
Mr. NASSIF: So he's just a great little guy.
CURRY: You call the girls his sisters, but yet you have yet to--to finish the papers of--of adopting him. Let's talk about the problem. He's had three heart surgeries so far. He is running around, but you've got a problem. What is the problem with taking him back to China, as the Chinese government requires, so that you can finalize the adoption papers, Rob?
Mr. NASSIF: Well, he--he's had, obviously, three heart surgeries already. And--and being in a pressurized cabin for 20 hours is certainly a risky measure, according to his doctors and according to us personally. Carol's kind of the technical advisor on all that, being the--the Mayo Clinic employee, and she knows all about that, so she's probably the one to ask...
Ms. NASSIF: OK.
Mr. NASSIF: ...the specifics if you want specifics.
CURRY: Well--well, what I really, I guess, need to know is basically the doctors are saying that he should not travel. Is that right, Carol?
Ms. NASSIF: Correct, correct. His cardiologist says that he should not travel. He has delicate pressures within his lungs that we need to maintain. He's on cardiac medications. And the traveling to China in a pressurized cabin, plus the time of being there for a couple of weeks without the support that we have medically here in town...
ROKER: Mm-hmm.
Ms. NASSIF: ...are--are scary things to us. And we just want to do what's best for Luke and want him to thrive. He's doing so well, we don't want to do anything to jeopardize his health right now.
CURRY: So you've gone to your senator, and here's where you come in, Mark Dayton. What--what have you found out from the Chinese government? What--what are you trying to do, and what are the prospects that you're going to win in your bid to try to help this family?
Sen. DAYTON: Well, I've written to President Hu, with whom I met as part of the Senate delegation in Beijing in last April. And I've also written and then spoken on the phone with the Chinese ambassador to the United States, Ambassador Yang. And I--I'm hopeful that they will make an exception in this case. And need be, I said I will go in Luke's stead as a sign of good faith. And the last time I was there in April everybody was covered up with white masks because of SARS, so I--I, you know, welcome the chance to go back myself, but more importantly, to spare Luke the necessity.
CURRY: That's--that's all well and good, but as I understand, China has never allowed an exception. Is that correct?
Sen. DAYTON: Well, that means they haven't allowed one yet, yes, that's correct.
CURRY: So you're still hopeful and are...
Sen. DAYTON: I'm...
CURRY: ...and you're going to do your best.
Sen. DAYTON: I'm--we're going to do our utmost. Luke has had an amazing way of bringing out the best in people everywhere so far. The renowned Mayo Clinic has just been phenomenal in Rochester, and Nassifs. And, you know, everybody's on--been on the side of the angels so far. So hopefully the Chinese government will join--join that spirit.
CURRY: Well, good luck in your efforts...
Sen. DAYTON: Thank you.
CURRY: ...Senator Mark Dayton.
Sen. DAYTON: Thank you.
