Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions - S. 1670
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 29, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DAYTON (for himself, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. LAUTENBERG, Mr. JOHNSON, and Mr. DURBIN):
S. 1670. A bill to expand the Rest and Recuperation Leave program for members of the Armed Forces serving in the Iraqi theater of operations in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom to include travel and transportation to the members' permanent station or home; to the Committee on Armed Services.
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, today I am introducing legislation, S. 1670, which would pay for the travel of U.S. troops stationed in Iraq, or in that theater, to and from their homes for the 2-weeks leave they are being granted.
Incredibly, while asking the Congress for an additional $87 billion for the war in Iraq, the Department of Defense wants to drop soldiers on leave off at the Baltimore Airport and then make them pay for their transportation home and back. Those service men and women are serving with great courage in 115-degree temperatures and other truly awful conditions. They are being given 2 weeks leave—many of them—because they are in the Reserves or National Guard and they have just had their 5- or 6-month tour extended by another 6 months. This will be the only time that many of them will have a chance to see their families during an entire year.
The least we can do is get them home and back at Government expense. If all 138,000 troops who are stationed in Iraq were to take this leave to travel to their homes, the total cost would be approximately $69 million. My legislation would not increase the $87 billion requested by the President, it would just direct that up to $69 million be available to be expensed for this purpose.
Last week, I also cosponsored legislation introduced by Senator Bob Graham, which exempted soldiers wounded in Iraq or Afghanistan from having to pay for meals while they are hospitalized. I was astonished to learn that the military would otherwise dock their pay for the cost of their meals. We are appropriating over $400 billion for our military operations next year through the regular appropriations and supplemental bills. Surely, that provides enough money that U.S. troops who are fighting, risking their lives, being wounded, and dying can be treated compassionately and fairly, not nickeled and dimed with travel and meal costs while on leave, or, even worse, while being hospitalized with combat wounds and injuries.
The American people are generous enough to support our troops properly and care for the wounded compassionately. The Department of Defense should not have to be required to do the right thing. It should be obvious enough to them, but if not,
they should give me a call and I will let them know.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD.
