Public Statements
Tribute to Carolyn "Kelly" Earl Davis
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 26, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

TRIBUTE TO CAROLYN "KELLY" EARL DAVIS
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I am delighted to honor a Minnesotan who recently reached the age of 90, after having spent much of her life in dedicated service in her community. Carolyn "Kelly" Earl Davis was born on September 21, 1913, the daughter of Dr. George Earl and Lillian Earl. Growing up, Carolyn, affectionately known since childhood as "Kelly"—the name given to her by her brother, Rol—loved to play baseball. She was an all-star player whose exploits on the field were greeted with exhortations of "Slide, Kelly, slide!"
Kelly lived in St. Paul, MN, and attended Summit School, where she took part in student government, sports, and volunteer work. She then attended Smith College and the University of Minnesota. In 1936, Kelly married Edward P. "Ned" Davis, Jr., and the Davises, who eventually had three daughters, Sally, Janie, and Mary, lived in St. Paul until moving to Bloomington's Friendship Village retirement community. They had been married 60 years at the time of Ned's death in 1997.
Today, Kelly is the proud grandmother of 6 and the great-grandmother of 3. Her family activities and interests have included canoeing, skiing, tennis, and golf. Throughout her life, Kelly has also given of herself through a remarkable career of volunteer service. During World War II, she served her country as a nurse's aide with the Red Cross. She is a member of the
House of Hope Presbyterian Church, where she has been president of the Women's Association Board, among other offices and committee memberships. She has taught Sunday school and has also been a leader of the Brownies and Girl Scouts. Her enthusiasm for sports motivated her to teach tennis and skiing to underprivileged children, having collected the necessary equipment for them to use.
Because education has been especially important to her, she belonged to the alumni boards of the Saint Paul Academy and Summit School. She was also a member of Summit School's Board of Trustees and chaired the school's 1958 building fund.
Even at the age of 79, Kelly was still busy, serving as the chairman of Summit School's 75th anniversary celebration.
The range of Kelly's interests and pursuits is formidable: the arts, public health, employment, child and family welfare. She gave of her energies and fund-raising talents to a variety of organizations and causes, including the Junior League, the St.
Paul Rehabilitation Center, the Children's Hospital Association, Neighborhood House, Merriam Park Community Center, the Volunteer Bureau, the Family Nursing Service, Planned Parenthood, and the Minnesota Public Health Association.
Despite the passing years, Kelly remained involved into her eighties. She served for two terms on the Friendship Village residents council and held the post of chair of the Friendship Village ad hoc committee for the health care center renovation.
Kelly's contributions are so numerous that they are almost impossible to catalogue. I am proud to salute this remarkable lady for her exceptional record of community service and advocacy. Truly, Kelly has spent her life working with and enjoying people of all ages.·
