Public Statements
Lieutenant General Emil R. "Buck" Bedard, United States Marine Corps
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 25, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

LIEUTENANT GENERAL EMIL R. "BUCK" BEDARD, UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I would like to pay tribute to LTG Emil R. "Buck" Bedard, who will retire Monday and return to private life after more than 36 years of selfless service to our Nation as a United States Marine. I have had the pleasure to work with Lieutenant General Bedard on matters of importance to the U.S. Marine Corps and to our Nation's defense. His experience and expertise will be missed by many of us in the Senate, as will his integrity, keen insight, and good judgment.
Buck Bedard was born in Argyle, MN, where he graduated from Argyle high school. He then slipped away from Minnesota's grasp and attended the University of North Dakota. Following his graduation, he was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps in December 1967. General Bedard also holds a master of science degree, and his formal military education includes the U.S. Army Advanced Infantry Course, the Armed Forces Staff College, and the Army War College.
While he was a lieutenant, Buck Bedard served as a rifle platoon commander and company executive officer with 2d Battalion, 27th Marines, and 3d Battalion, 3d Marines, in the Republic of Vietnam. Subsequently, he was ordered to Quantico, VA, where he served as a staff officer and then as the commander with Schools Demonstrations Troops.
Then-Captain Bedard was assigned to the U.S. Army Intelligence School as an instructor, and he later served as a company commander in the 3d Marine Division in Okinawa, Japan. Following that tour of duty, Captain Bedard became the Marine officer instructor at the Naval Reserve Officer Training Unit at Vanderbilt University and was a Platoon and Company Commander at the Marine Corps Officer Candidate School in Quantico, VA. Following his promotion to major, he served as the Logistics Officer, 7th Marines, and then as the executive officer, 3d Battalion, 7th Marines.
Then-Lieutenant Colonel Bedard served as the assistant operations officer, 1st Marine Amphibious Force, G-3, Pacific Plans Officer, and finally as the G-5. Assigned to NATO and stationed in Holland, LTC Bedard served in the Central Region Operations Division in charge of reinforcement operations of Allied Forces to Central Europe.
Then-Colonel Bedard was reassigned to Twenty-Nine Palms, California, where he directed the Combined Arms Exercise Program at the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center. He became the Assistant G-3 for Operations for the 7th Marine Expeditionary Brigade and the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force during Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm. From May 1991, through June 1993, Colonel Bedard commanded the 7th Marine Regiment, which deployed to Somalia in December, 1992. In July, 1993, he was assigned as the Assistant Division Commander for the 1st Marine Division, Camp Pendleton, California, and in October 1993, he was reassigned as J-3 Operations Officer, Joint Task Force, Somalia.
In June, 1994, Colonel Bedard was advanced to Brigadier General and was assigned as the President, Marine Corps University and Commanding General Marine Corps Schools, Marine Corps Combat Development Command, Quantico, Virginia. His next assignment in June, 1995, was as the Deputy Commander, Marine Forces Pacific, Camp H.M. Smith, Hawaii. General Bedard assumed command of 2d Marine Division in July 1997, and was promoted to Major General on September 1, 1997. He assumed command of 2d Marine Expeditionary Force in July 1999. On June 29, 2000, General Bedard relinquished command of Second Marine Expeditionary Force and was advanced to his current rank. Lieutenant General Bedard has been the Deputy Commandant of Plans, Policies and Operations at Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps, since July 2000, where he has skillfully guided Marine Corps operations following September 11th, 2001, and during Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom.
Throughout his career as a U.S. Marine, Lieutenant General Bedard has demonstrated his outstanding character, discerning wisdom, and deep sense of duty to his Country, his Corps, his Marines, and their families. On behalf of the U.S. Senate I thank Lieutenant General Bedard for his exemplary career, his many accomplishments, and his devoted service to our Nation. We also thank his wife, Linda, and their three children for sharing him with his country. Congratulations, Lieutenant General Bedard; your mission has been very well accomplished.·
