Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account: Funding for Reconstruction of Iraq and Afghanistan
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 22, 2003
Location: Unknown

YOUR DAYTON'S ACCOUNT: Funding for Reconstruction of Iraq and Afghanistan
President Bush is asking Congress to approve an additional $87 billion to fund the war in Iraq. $65 billion would pay for our military operations there for the next year. $21 billion would fund economic reconstruction in Iraq, and $1 billion would assist rebuilding efforts in Afghanistan.
Quite obviously, $87 billion is an enormous amount of money. It would be in addition to a $368 billion appropriation for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2004 and another $78 billion approved last April for the Iraq War.
Both the House and the Senate will review the President's request very carefully in the days ahead. I want to see a more detailed spending plan and a timetable for its successful conclusion. However, I also believe that the President and his military commanders must be provided with the funds necessary to supply and support the extraordinary Americans deployed there. My trips to both Iraq and Afghanistan have persuaded me that initial economic and social improvements are essential to their governments' survival after our troops depart. The faster those first improvements are noticeably under way, the sooner our troops can leave.
We are not responsible for the vast economic and social improvements needed in Afghanistan or for the enormous reconstruction and revitalization required in Iraq. They will take a couple of decades to accomplish. After Iraq's oil industry has been resurrected, its revenues can be used to finance the country's rehabilitation. Lacking that wealth, Afghanistan will need outside assistance; but it should come from many nations, not just the United States.
The need to share those burdens is one of the reasons that an international coalition must be assembled and activated immediately. Armed forces, business and technical advisers, education specialists, health care providers, and the money to pay for all of them must become shared responsibilities of the world's leading nations. They are unsustainable by our country alone.
Our armed forces are already severely overtaxed. Some Reserve and National Guard units have been called up for their second or third tours of duty within the last two years, and those tours are being extended unfairly and unreasonably.
Several thousand Minnesota families are now suffering through the uncertainties, anxieties, and hardships that those deployments impose. Many Minnesota businesses and other employers are struggling with the extended losses of key employees. Yet despite all of their sacrifices, a recent analysis by the Office of Management and Budget predicts even greater shortages of available troops by next spring.
The financial burden of this additional military spending is just beginning to be felt. Fiscal year 2003's deficit was initially expected to be about $200 billion. The actual deficit will be close to $500 billion. If not for the Social Security Trust Fund's surplus, the deficit would be well over $600 billion! Fiscal year 2004's deficit is already predicted to exceed $500 billion. It is likely to end the year even higher.
We will not experience the worst effects from this fiscal recklessness for a few years, because the federal government can issue Treasury bonds to finance the deficit spending. In ten years, however, our national debt will exceed $7 trillion. The annual interest payments alone will top $300 billion. Soon thereafter, the Social Security Trust Fund will start to run annual deficits instead of its present surpluses. Then our country will face its worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, and our children and grandchildren will have to bear the burdens that we are avoiding.
