Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account - The Truth About Conditions in Iraq
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 8, 2003
Location: Unknown

YOUR DAYTON'S ACCOUNT
The Truth About Conditions in Iraq
What is the truth about Iraq? Like the search for weapons of mass destruction, the truth has also been difficult to uncover.
Until President Bush's Sunday night address to the nation, his Administration's public posture has been that "95 percent" of Iraq is basically secure and conditions there continue to improve. However, during the preceding week, I attended a Senate Armed Services Committee briefing by top U.S. intelligence and military officials and another meeting with Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz and General John Abizaid, Commander of all U.S. forces in the region, including Iraq and Afghanistan. They presented grim evaluations of present conditions and predictions of few immediate improvements.
The Washington Post reported that in August, American casualties in Iraq averaged 10 per day, one-third more than during the previous month.
Our troops have demonstrated extraordinary patriotism, courage, and effectiveness. They won the war in three weeks.
Now, terribly, they are the ones suffering for their successes. They remain deployed to preserve their military victory and thus are the targets of Iraqi opposition and other insurgents. Tragically, the Bush Administration was not prepared to win the country after winning the war. Top-level officials now admit that essential public services, like electricity, are worse in major Iraqi cities and key outlying regions than before the U.S. invasion. They are continuing to deteriorate, due to sabotage and counterattacks.
President Bush's request to Congress for an additional $87 billion appropriation is not a sign of progress. Neither are his decisions to seek United Nations participation and additional international troops to supplement, not replace, U.S. forces.
They were the right decisions, made for the wrong reasons. Presently, there are 140,000 U.S. troops in Iraq; that number was previously expected to be 60,000 at this stage.
How do we bring our troops back home without sacrificing the results which have been achieved? We must accelerate what should already have been accomplished: an Iraqi police force responsible for domestic law and order, including their protection of public and private property; a successor Iraqi government, chosen by the people of that country; the permanent removal of Saddam Hussein; and initial economic and social reconstruction projects nationwide to instill hopes for a better future and public support for U.S., U.N., and other foreign presence there.
When I was in Iraq six weeks ago, I was told by the U.S. military and civilian commands that those initiatives must be completed or successfully under way, before U.S. forces could be finally withdrawn. My colleagues and I were told that substantial progress during the subsequent three months was crucial and that lack of progress would produce disastrous consequences. Their assessment was accurate then, and continues to be so now. The longer the delays, the longer our servicemen and women must unfairly pay the price for the failures of others.
Several times last month, I was asked by relatives of Minnesotans in Iraq about reports of rationing water and food supplies to our troops there. I asked that question of General Abizaid. He assured me that there were sufficient supplies of safely drinkable water (although not all of it bottled), edible food, and other essential supplies for our troops throughout the country. He said that he has traveled extensively to personally verify that information.
Unfortunately, he was less reassuring about the overdeployment of American forces, especially our Reserve components.
Minnesota units are now being deployed for the second and third times within the past two years. Some of them know when they can expect to return home. Others have not been told, which places additional burdens on them and their families.
However, we were assured that those dates given to servicemembers for their returns home would be honored, and no longer extended repeatedly. I will do whatever I can to hold the military command to that promise. If any Minnesotans stationed in Iraq (or anywhere else, for that matter) are experiencing serious, unresolved difficulties, I encourage their families to contact me directly at my Fort Snelling Office (612-727-5220 or 888-224-9043).
I will support the additional funds which President Bush demonstrates are needed to conclude successfully our efforts in Iraq. I want to secure the necessary elements of lasting peace there and bring our troops home as quickly as possible. I will also continue to insist that the Administration tell us the truth and all the truth about past circumstances, current
conditions, and future expectations. Their continuing unwillingness to do so causes me great concern
