Public Statements
Northwest Noise Provision
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 1, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, yesterday and this morning I placed holds on the nominations of 15 men and women for appointments in the executive branch. They have one characteristic in common. They all come from States of Senators or Members of the House of Representatives who have signed the Federal Aviation Administration conference report. This report, which will come before the Senate and the House after the August recess, steals the rightful authority of the Minnesota Metropolitan Airports Commission, which is a public body, its members appointed by the Governor, to make decisions about the lives of Minnesotans who live near our major international airport. The Report would prohibit Federal funds from being used for noise insulation of homes or apartment buildings where the airplane noise ranges from 60 to 64 decibels.
This clause was not in the Senate bill and it was not in the House bill. It was neither considered nor acted upon by either body, nor by any of the committees of jurisdiction in the Senate or the House. There was no public notification about this intent. There were no hearings, no testimony, nothing about this particular clause.
It appears in the conference report reportedly because a lobbyist representing a client found a Senator from another State far removed from my State, where citizens will bear the burdens and the consequences of this action. To slip this contemptible language into the final conference report, which will become, if it is acted favorably upon by the Senate and House, the final bill, the law of the land if the President signs it, this action reminds me of the old contest called limbo, where the object was to "see how low you could go." This action is very low. It is low because it is a perversion of our public process for making laws which govern the lives of the citizens of this country; in this case, the lives of people who live in over 8,000 homes and over 3,200 apartments which surround the Minneapolis-St. Paul Metropolitan Airport.
Some 300 years ago, even before the formation of this democracy, one of the first leaders of English settlers arriving here was William Penn. He wrote that people are free under a government where the laws rule and the people are a party to those laws. Those are the two conditions under which the people are free.
The several thousand people who would be affected by this clause if it were to become law - and it will not become law - were not a party to that decision because the people they elected to represent them in Congress, their two Senators and their Congressman, were not a party to this clause. I am not myself a supporter of the idea of a unicameral legislative body, but if there were ever consideration given, this would be exhibit number 1 in support of one, because a unicameral legislative body would eliminate these conference committees, where a few Members of the House and Senate go into some back room or private office and write one final bill out of the two versions passed by the Senate and the House, and then the rest of us - all of the elected Senators and Representatives - have to vote that final report up or down, with no changes, no additions, no subtractions.
Conference committees recently have taken a very dangerous turn. The Democratic conferees are being excluded from their deliberations and decisions. Republicans make up the majority of the conferees from both the House and Senate, as they should because they hold the majority in both bodies. So if those Republican conferees concur among themselves, they will prevail on every vote, and they will get the final bill they want to create. They have that right based on the rules of the Senate and the House.
For some reason, however, that is not enough these days because, increasingly, the Democratic conferees are not allowed in meetings where those deliberations and decisions are being made. They are not even allowed to object or agree, or to try to persuade otherwise. I have to ask myself, as someone who has been here only 2 ½ years, why is it they are not even allowed to participate? Is it to make it easier to sneak in these kinds of terrible additions to bills that will become law and hope they won't be noticed by the rest of us before the final bill is acted upon?
This exclusion from the process and the inclusion of another provision that was not previously passed by the Senate or the House, to privatize this Nation's air traffic control system, which ranks as one of the most unwarranted, unjustified, destructive, and dangerous ideas of this new century, were the major reasons that not a single Democratic conferee from either the Senate or the House signed the FAA conference report. There were 38 conferees - 24 Republicans and 14 Democrats. All 24 Republicans signed the conference report. None of the Democrats, out of 14 Democratic conferees, signed that conference report.
So much for "changing the tone" in Washington. So much for "bipartisanship." So much for honest Government reflecting the will of the people, who elected all of us to represent them in the Senate and in the House. The majority caucus of the Senate is comprised of 51 Members, and the minority caucus has 49 members. If the then-incumbent senior Senator from Minnesota had not been killed in a plane crash last October, the Senate would be 50/50 evenly divided, as it was when I arrived here 2 ½ years ago. The people of America have recently voted for a closely divided Government, to which the 2000 Presidential election also bears witness to.
It is fundamentally wrong for the barely majority party to usurp the responsibility for good government, and in conformance to the expressed political will of the American people. It is terribly wrong to do so for the purpose of writing bills behind closed doors and putting in garbage like this airport noise clause, which affects the people of Minnesota. They ought to be ashamed, they should be better than that, and they ought to stop doing it.
Where does this legislative dropping come from? Reportedly, I have heard from several sources, it was added by a Senate conferee. Neither my Minnesota colleague nor I were aware of it, which obviously was the intent of both its author and originator. I am deeply offended that one of my colleagues would behave in such an underhanded fashion and harm the people in my State for no apparent reason.
What would induce another Member of the Senate to do something like that? Now, he didn't make up the idea by himself. We have enough to do in these jobs that we don't have to hunt for issues affecting airports in other States to make our sneak attacks upon_at least I hope not. We have our disagreements here, as we should. We have our political arguments, as we must. But I certainly hope we are not here to do damage to people in other Members' States.
If we are going to engage in such a practice, I certainly expect that we will all have the integrity to do so in the proper and public lawmaking processes of this Senate and this Congress. I certainly expect the decency to be informed by my colleague that he intends to do so. If that integrity and that decency do not prevail here, then the former Chaplain of the Senate, Dr. Edward Everett Hale, was right when asked if he prayed for the Senators. "No," the Senate Chaplain replied, "I look at the Senators and pray for the country."
The Senate Chaplain spoke those words 100 years ago. I believe, and for the sake of our country I pray, that the Senate of 2003 is far better than the Senate of 1903, if that is what caused the Chaplain then to make such a remark. Let all of us be sure to make it better today by our own conduct here.
There is someone else who is also responsible for this sneaky, slimy, and sordid shenanigan, and that, I regret to say, is Northwest Airlines, a major Minnesota company, founded in Minnesota, headquartered in Minnesota, employing over 18,000 people in Minnesota. It is one of Minnesota's most important companies. It is our link to the world.
Northwest Airlines controls 85 percent of the gates at the Minneapolis-St. Paul Airport. It is comprised of 18,000 tremendous people in Minnesota - executives, pilots, flight attendants, mechanics, baggage handlers, reservation agents, skycaps. One by one they are great people: hard working, dedicated, loyal, courteous, and skilled in what they do.
As a corporate entity, however, Northwest Airlines more often acts like Darth Vader than the Caped Crusader. The
company is capable of wonderful acts of charity. Last year it helped to transport 10,000 boxes of Girl Scout cookies to soldiers stationed abroad. Every quarter it partners with a worthwhile charity, and on every flight it asks passengers to donate either their money or accumulated frequent flier miles, equivalent to money, to that worthwhile cause.
However, during my entire public career, going back 25 years as Minnesota's commissioner of economic development to being a Senator today, no other Minnesota company has ever asked for as much from the public, received as much from the public, asked as much again and again from the public, received as much again and again from the public, and showed as little gratitude, graciousness, or respect for the public as Northwest Airlines.
In 1989, Northwest Airlines was subject to a hostile takeover. A company that at the time had a cash balance of over $700 million became one saddled with over $2 billion in corporate debt. With the economic downturn that began in 1990 and went into 1991, Northwest fell into serious financial difficulty and was near bankruptcy, we were informed. That condition was caused by loss of revenues compounded by the debt load of their takeover. So Northwest Airlines came to the people of Minnesota for help, and the people of Minnesota responded.
The Minnesota Legislature authorized $710 million ingrants and in low-interest secured loans. The Metropolitan Airports Commission essentially remortgaged the airport to provide a loan of $350 million. That is the same Metropolitan Airports Commission which Northwest Airlines now criticizes for every spending decision, for its supposed lack of frugality, forgetting it would be even more frugal if it had saved the cost of carrying that loan for the last 12 years.
At the same time as that corporate bailout by the people of Minnesota, our State also began a 7-year agreed-upon timetable, a dual-track process to decide where to locate the new airport for our State and for the entire region: whether it should be the expansion of the existing airport or building a new one at a more remote site.
By the mid-1990s, in the middle of that timetable, based on the seeming experience of the costly new airport in Denver and its effects financially on the airline industry, particularly those who had their hubs there, Northwest Airlines took a legitimate position in its own corporate interest to oppose building a new airport elsewhere. But they were so insistent on getting their own way that they convinced the Governor and the Minnesota Legislature to abrogate after 6 years the final year of that intended 7-year process, cutting off the last year of public debate, cutting off the opportunity by those who are opposed to that decision, those who lived in the surrounding areas who were plagued by airport noise. They were denied their opportunities to make their last cases to the public decision makers.
Their lives were being made worse also, I note, by the noise of Northwest Airlines' aging fleet of airplanes, the oldest of any of the major carriers at the time, which were not being replaced by the newer planes originally on order because of the financial difficulties that the corporate takeover put on the company. But at least in this instance, Northwest went through the public process, and they prevailed.
As part of that agreement, they reportedly agreed to contribute $70 million to this next phase of noise insulation of homes and apartments in the surrounding areas. Northwest was hard hit on September 11, 2001, and its aftermath, as were other air carriers in this country, as were many other businesses throughout this country, many of which went out of business as a result of the disruption to our economy caused by those dastardly events.
They sought financial assistance from this body and from the institution of Congress. On September 22, Congress provided $5 billion of grants to the airline carriers, of which Northwest Airlines received $428 million in public funds, grant money, not to be repaid.
On April 3 of this year, as part of the supplemental appropriation, this body, and its counterpart, authorized another $2.3 billion in grant money of which Northwest Airlines will receive $205 million. In addition, we granted a 4-month ticket tax holiday. I supported every single one of those measures, and if Northwest Airlines' survival were at stake, I would support it again because it would be in the interests of both the company and the people of Minnesota.
For a company to be the recipient of all of that public support, to receive all of that support from this institution of Congress, and then show so little respect for the public and so little regard for the Congress or for the integrity of our public process, I find to be deplorable, detestable, and deranged.
The money this airline company seeks to prohibit being expended to improve the lives of their neighbors in Minnesota is not their money. It is the public's money. It is Federal money that comes from general funds, from ticket taxes or from passenger taxes. It is beyond irresponsible for any one person or any one corporation to try to destroy the public will expressed through the legitimate public process by this kind of back-door maneuver. No one has that right. No one deserves to have that right. And no one who shows such disrespect and disregard for our Democratic process, which exists to represent the interests of all of the people of this country, to protect the best interests of all the people of this country, no one who tries to abrogate that democratic authority should get away with it. They must not get away with it. It is too destructive to our democracy if they do. It is too damaging to our citizens' faith in their Government and to their trust in their Government, which is their Government.
Northwest Airlines will not get away with this deviant, dastardly, and undemocratic action. Northwest Airlines will not get its way this way. This deed will not stand. It will not become law. The people of Minnesota have my word, it will not become law.
Before I began these remarks, I withdrew my 15 holds on those executive branch nominations at the specific request of the White House, out of my respect. I am mindful that a year ago, when I put 60 holds on nominations for various executive positions, the White House staff responded in a most impressive way.
They worked with my office and other Senators' offices to rescue over 200 Cambodian orphans from orphanages in Cambodia who were being prevented by the INS to be brought to this country by their adoptive parents.
To the great credit of the President of the United States, the White House used his ultimate authority to override that decision by INS and to make it possible for those children to come to loving homes in Minnesota and other States; and for that reason, and for my respect generally, I yielded to that specific request by the White House and withdrew those 15 holds.
I have equally the greatest regard for this institution of the Senate, for all of its procedures, its protocols, and its proud traditions.
I listened earlier today to the words of the majority leader, a man whom I greatly respect. By his invitation, I was privileged to accompany him to China, Taiwan, Japan, and the Republic of Korea 2 months ago. I watched with thegreatest of admiration how he led our delegation and sat down face to face with some of the most important leaders of other nations in this world. He brought nothing but great credit to this Senate. He and his predecessor in that position, now the Democratic leader, Senator Daschle are two men with dignity and with honor. I am in awe of their continual patience. When they have disagreements about policy or legislation, they are honest and they are honorable. We have debates. We have votes and the majority prevails.
I also respect the desire of the majority leader to proceed with an orderly schedule which he outlined when we return in September. In fact, I share that desire. But I must give fair warning and advance notice that I will not permit the Senate to proceed with business as usual when we return on September 2, while this FAA conference report, with this poisonous paragraph a part of it, is before the Senate. I will put a hold on every nomination that comes before the Senate. I will object to every motion to proceed after the prayer and the Pledge of Allegiance, and I will not yield on those matters until this language is removed from that conference report. You have my word.
We have over a month until we return. That is plenty of time for those who are party to this detestable act, to work it out and to get it out of that conference report.
Do not doubt my resolve. That language must be removed or I will not allow the business of the Senate to proceed. You have my word. You have my word.
I yield the floor.
