Public Statements
Senator Warner
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 1, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SENATOR WARNER
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, let me preface my intended remarks. I seldom have occasion to take exception to the remarks made by the very distinguished chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee on which I am honored to serve, but I must say that I respectfully disagree with the modesty by which he characterized himself as anything less than one of the real greats in the Senate. In my estimation, the Senator from Virginia ranks up among the greats of the Senate from the beginning of our Nation's proud heritage and through the years.
I believe the Senator has now completed 25 years of extraordinary service on behalf of not only the citizens of Virginia but also the citizens of Minnesota and the citizens of this country. When I was one-hundredth in Senate seniority for my first 2 years, I had some doubts about the worth of the seniority system. I was dissuaded whenever I would see the Senator from Virginia, Mr. Warner, act as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, then as its ranking member, and now as chairman again, of that most important committee.
When I recently had a chance to travel with him to Iraq and saw his fortitude and his determination to serve the best interests of our country, or when matters of great importance to the future of this country and this world came before the Senate Armed Services Committee, I was always reassured by the knowledge that the Senator from Virginia, Mr. Warner, was chairman of that committee, and acting with the very distinguished ranking member, Senator Levin from Michigan. I believed that our democracy was in the best possible hands. The wisdom of the seniority system with a man of that stature serving in that role was certainly upheld. I would just like to acknowledge that his own modesty prevented him from saying what I know that my colleagues join with me on both sides of the aisle in saying, that this man is one of the true greats of the Senate on this day or any day.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I thank our distinguished colleague. He is a very active member of the Armed Services Committee. Indeed, he did make reference to our excellent trip of nine Senators into Iraq, 3 days in country. It was a very important mission, defining exactly what I tried to enumerate in my remarks earlier, our responsibility to the men and women of the Armed Forces and their families. I thank the Senator.
Mr. DAYTON. I thank also the Presiding Officer for his forbearance in permitting my remarks this afternoon. I had the opportunity to serve on many of these occasions in the previous 2 years as Presiding Officer. I know how my heart sank when yet another Senator would arrive on the floor to make his or her remarks. I thank the Presiding Officer for this
opportunity and his forbearance as well.
