Public Statements
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2004
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 23, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2004
AMENDMENT NO. 1336
    Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, this amendment reaffirms that all money appropriated under this bill will be spent in conformity with the Buy American Act. It is an amendment which passed the House and will be included in that bill.
    As my colleagues know, the Buy American Act was established in 1933 and has been in force since then, with only two substantive amendments during that entire 70 years. It is an economic stimulus legislation. It is meant to encourage the purchase of goods made by Americans in America, using American materials and labor.
    I cannot think of a more suitable time for this to be honored than now, with over 3.1 million jobs lost in the private sector of the U.S. economy since this administration took office. I will repeat that staggering number. Over 3.1 million Americans have lost their jobs in the private sector of our economy since January 2001.
    So it is entirely appropriate that we use public dollars that are being appropriated for essential public purposes such as homeland security but that we also add a perfectly legitimate public purpose, which is to generate as many jobs as possible through the expenditure of those funds in the United States of America.
    There are exceptions in the existing Buy American Act to permit the purchase of goods or services if these conditions apply. The head of the procuring agency, in this case Secretary Ridge, could waive these requirements if he determines they are inconsistent with the public interest, which means he has broad latitude and discretion to determine that, for any legitimate reason, this act should not apply to a particular purchase.
    Second, if it is unreasonable in cost. If the domestic product is of an unreasonable cost, then a foreign product can be purchased.
    Articles that are purchased for use outside of the United States, or articles that are procured for military bases, leased from foreign governments, are not covered under the act, or if they are not produced or manufactured in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available commercial quantities or of satisfactory quality.
    There is latitude to assure that none of the intent of this appropriation, which the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee, the Senator from Mississippi, and his colleagues have assured, that would require any compromise with the intent of providing the maximum possible protection to our fellow citizens. But it does say that, when possible, we will be consistent with that intent if we are also trying to provide American jobs.
    Why is this necessary if it is already in law? This administration has demonstrated that it is not particularly a fan of this particular act. The Secretary of Defense in the Defense authorization bill—the Armed Services Committee, of which I am a member—was successful in getting the application of that act significantly weakened as it applies to the Department of Defense and the military branches. I do not want to see that happen with the Department of Homeland Security. This is an opportunity for Congress to make it very clear that this act will be enforced; that we expect it to be followed; that we want it to be utilized wherever possible because we want to put Americans back to work.
    I know in my home State of Minnesota, the greatest imperative for the well-being of our citizens, as well as the recovery of the Minnesota economy and the budget crisis our State is going through, comes down to jobs—jobs, jobs, and jobs; American jobs; good paying, hopefully benefit-providing, pension-providing American jobs. That is what this amendment reinforces. I urge my colleagues to support it.
    I thank the Chair. I yield the floor.
    The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Mississippi.
    Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, this provision is carried in the Treasury appropriations bill in the section on general provisions. Even though this amendment is not necessary to be on the Department of Homeland Security appropriations bill, I have no objection to it being carried on this bill as well. So we are prepared to accept the amendment.
    The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Minnesota.
    Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I thank the chairman for his acceptance of the amendment.
