Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account: A Taste of Our Own Medicine & Paperwork Reduction Amendments
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 18, 2003
Location: Unknown

Your Dayton's Account:
A Taste of Our Own Medicine & Paperwork Reduction Amendments
One of my amendments to the Senate's prescription drug bill has attracted considerable attention. It prohibits members of Congress from receiving better coverage through their federal health plan than this legislation will provide seniors and other Medicare recipients. Although my amendment passed the Senate by a vote of 93-3, some members reportedly were promised that it would be discarded in the House-Senate Conference Committee. So, they could vote for my amendment and pretend to support it, while knowing that it would not become law. As the German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck supposedly said, "Laws are like sausages. It's better not to see them being made"!
My second amendment to the bill has not garnered as much attention; however, its impact could be far greater. This amendment requires that the number of words in all of the rules and regulations for the entire Medicare program be cut by two-thirds before October 1, 2004.
I am told that presently all of those rules and regulations fill 110,000 pages. One hundred ten thousand pages! If my amendment becomes law, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services will have to eliminate about 73,000 pages of verbiage. I believe that 37,000 pages of rules and regulations should be more than enough to administer any federal government program. They should be enough to administer all federal programs!
Our society is being overwhelmed by a plague of regulations and reporting requirements. They continue to increase in number, length, and complexity. Like locusts, they consume more and more of everyone's time, effort, and expense. By itself, one such requirement might be manageable; but all together, they become an excessive and oppressive burden.
There have been many past attempts at regulatory reform; few achieved significant or lasting results. In my experience, most of them fail because they take too long and try too little; they tiptoe where they should trample. To be worth their labors, they must produce significant and lasting changes. A two-thirds reduction in the volume of program rules and regulations would provide real benefits for doctors, nurses, administrators, insurers, and even government regulators. If my idea is tried and proves effective, I intend to apply it to other federal regulatory schemes. Just imagine the benefits, if every government form, regulation, and reporting requirement were reduced by two-thirds! I am convinced that enforcement and compliance would become not only easier, but also more effective.
