Public Statements
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2004
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 16, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2004
AMENDMENT NO. 1275
    Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I rise also in support of Senator Corzine's amendment. Yesterday was a very grim day in Minnesota. We had the funeral service of the first Minnesotan to be killed in Iraq this year in the line of duty, PVT Edward James Herrgott. It is a grim reminder that 63 days after the President declared the hostilities almost over in Iraq, this young man lost his life on July 3, standing out in front, guarding the Baghdad Museum, the site where some of my colleagues and I had swept by, well protected, just 2 days before. He was killed, murdered by a sniper's bullet. At the age of 20, his life and all of its promise was snuffed out.
    We learned last week from the Secretary of Defense that, in his judgment, the military presence, some major component of which will have to be from the United States—hopefully much less will be, when we do as we must, which is to internationalize the continued development and hopefully economic recovery in Iraq—but as long as there is going to be a presence there, United States troops are going to be a big part of that, and it is almost unavoidable under the circumstances, especially as they exist today, the number of men and women who have lost their lives since May 1—which stands now at 79—will only increase.
    So, as Americans are faced, again and again, with a member of the family, a friend, an acquaintance, or just through the media a fellow citizen of that State, again and again they are going to be confronted with this question of, what are we doing in Iraq? What is the game plan to extricate our troops after achieving the success the military had so dramatically, remarkably in the 3 weeks it took from entering the country to sweeping into Baghdad with an incredible display of technology, the training, and most of all the dedication of those men and women who have really redefined the words "courage" and "patriotism" for this Senator.
    They continue to labor there under the most extreme conditions, 115-degree temperatures, all the other difficulties that are manifest there, not to mention the life-threatening danger that so many of them are under day and night.
    Given all that, I think it is imperative for our national security that we understand that we—all of us collectively in the Congress and the President, this administration—made what is the most momentous decision that can be made by this body and the administration, the decision whether or not to go to war—in this case, to initiate a war against another sovereign nation. To know that decision was made on accurate information from our intelligence operations, to me, is essential to our national security in the days and years ahead.
    It is also essential to our democracy to know the information we are getting from our leaders is truthful, accurate, to the best of their knowledge. There are enough questions that have been raised that must be answered, and they must be answered with the truth and with the facts as that can be determined objectively and dispassionately to be.
    I regret that the Senate Armed Services Committee, of which I am a member, is not going to be undertaking the bipartisan investigation into these issues as its counterpart, the Senate Intelligence Committee, has agreed to do. I think there has to be that kind of willingness on both sides of the aisle to seek the truth. I cannot understand why anybody would not want to find the truth and present it to the Members of this body and, even more importantly, to the American people. But that is a decision that evidently has been reached.
    In the absence of that, I think this independent commission is essential. We owe it to ourselves. We owe it to the Private Herrgotts whose lives have been sacrificed in this endeavor. We owe it to the future men and women who will be over in Iraq, in future engagements, if necessary. We owe it, ultimately, to our country, our democracy, and to ourselves.
    I yield the floor.
