Public Statements
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2004
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 15, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2004
    Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished chairman of the Appropriations Committee for his forbearance. I thank my colleague, Senator Reid, for making this arrangement for me to speak out today on the 2004 Defense appropriations bill as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
    As I begin my remarks today, I am cognizant that a funeral service is about to begin in Minnesota. It is the funeral of the first Minnesota soldier to die in Iraq this year, PFC Edward J. Herrgott of Shakopee, MN. Private Herrgott was only 20 years old. He said he joined the Army so he could earn some money to go to school and become a police officer. He was patrolling in front of the Baghdad Museum on September 3 when a sniper's bullet ended his life.
    Private Herrgott is an American hero. He stood guard in 115-degree heat, in the most dangerous city in the world, because his commanding officer assigned him that duty. He went to Iraq because his Commander in Chief, the President of the United States, assigned him that duty.
    It took extraordinary courage and patriotism for him to perform that duty, to stand guard in that sweltering heat in the midst of that ever-present danger. Private Herrgott lost his life performing his duty. He lost his life 63 days after his Commander in Chief declared that major hostilities were over in Iraq. They did not end on May 1 for Private Herrgott, nor for the 77 other American soldiers who have died in Iraq since then, nor for the hundreds more who have been wounded, nor for the 145,000 other American soldiers who still risk their lives in Iraq every day and every night and wonder when will they come home.
    Congress also bears responsibility for sending Private Herrgott and those 145,000 other brave men and women to Iraq. Last October, Congress voted to give their constitutional responsibility to declare war over to President Bush. Congress gave the President what he wanted, what he insisted then he must have, a blank check, a blank check signed in advance, authorizing the President to use whatever means necessary, including the use of force in Iraq, whenever, and with whomever, for however long, at whatever cost, until the President decides to end that war. Congress gave the President all of that authority and all of that responsibility. I did not vote for it, but a majority did, and now we must pay for that war.
    Last week in the Senate Armed Services Committee, we were told by the Secretary of Defense that the war in Iraq is costing $3.9 billion per month and that the continuing military operations in Afghanistan are costing $900 million per month. That is a combined $4.8 billion a month, totaling $57.6 billion over 12 months. That is $57.6 billion which I thought was going to be in this 2004 Defense Appropriations bill, and the distinguished chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, who has been engaged in these matters for far more years than I have been around, has clarified the circumstances why that money is not in there now.
    But I point out that the estimate of over $1 billion a week is probably way too low. According to this week's Newsweek magazine:
    That billion a week is just the beginning. It doesn't include the cost of running Iraq's government and rebuilding it, which could be an additional billion a month—according to pre-war United Nations estimates.
    Nor does it include presumably, as this article details, the $1.2 billion which Ambassador Bremer's budget says must be spent up front in capital improvements if Iraq's oil production is to get under way again. Nor does it include the $680 million given to the Bechtel Corporation for infrastructure improvements; nor, I suspect, the $3 billion to $5 billion that it is estimated is necessary to make emergency repairs to Iraq's electrical power system.
    So why is it that we cannot get from the administration a clear, direct, and reliable accounting about the cost of this war? I am guessing it has something to do with today's report that the Federal budget for fiscal year 2003 is expected to run a $450 billion deficit, and the next year's deficit may be as high as $500 billion, without even including all of the costs of the war efforts.
    Those are staggering deficits. This year's deficit will be over 50 percent greater than the largest annual deficit in U.S. history, and it results from the most colossal financial mismanagement that has ever been witnessed in this country's history, the worst ever.
    Just 2 years and 2 months ago, President Bush submitted his administration's first budget for fiscal year 2002 and the years beyond. It was a proud document dated April 9, 2001. The President stated:
    This budget offers a new vision of governing for our Nation.
    His budget projected a $5.6 trillion surplus for the 10 fiscal years from 2002 through 2011. It promised to save the entire Social Security surplus of $2.6 trillion; to spend every penny, it said, of Medicare tax and premium collections on Medicare; to achieve historic levels of debt reduction, $2 trillion over 10 years; to provide $1.6 trillion in tax relief; and set aside a $1.4 trillion reserve for additional needs, debt service, and contingencies.
    As we all know, there have been big contingencies since then, but not enough to justify the total destruction of all of those promises, not enough to warrant the abandonment of a fiscally responsible Federal budget, which was bequeathed to this administration by the administration which preceded it.
    For fiscal year 2003, the fiscal year we are in presently, just 2 years and 2 months ago President Bush predicted a $262 billion surplus in the combined Federal budget for that year. The on-budget operating fund surplus was expected to be $49 billion; the off-budget Social Security surplus, $193 billion.
    The Social Security surplus now is expected to be slightly less than was predicted then, but still $160 billion. But combined, the Federal budget deficit of $450 billion means the operating fund, the main operating account of the Federal Government, this year will run a deficit of over $600 billion. A $49 billion surplus was expected 2 years and 2 months ago and a $610 billion deficit is expected today.
    The non-Social Security revenue for this year, in personal and corporate income taxes, capital gains tax, estate tax, and the excise tax was projected to exceed expenditures in fiscal year 2002, as they did in the year 2000 under President Bill Clinton—for the first time in 40 years. But now in actuality, those progressive taxes, which have constituted almost the entire tax base of the operating accounts of the Federal Government for all these years, those revenues generated will only amount to two-thirds of expenditures. The two tax bills of 2001 and 2003 have decimated the progressive tax base of the Federal Government. And 2004 is expected to be no better. If anything, it is projected to get even worse. The change from expectations to now the projection of a $500 billion deficit means a change of over $750 billion in projections.
    Saving the Social Security surplus—that is gone. Every year—this year, next year, every year in the foreseeable future—it is going to be wiped out to nothing.
    Reducing the national debt by $2 trillion? That is gone. In fact, according to the President's own Office of Management and Budget, if we adopt his budgets as he has proposed them, we will increase the national debt by $2 trillion over the next 10 years.
    Setting up a reserve fund? Forget that, too.
    Lowering the growth in discretionary spending to 4 percent a year? Not yet. The President's request for the last 3 years has increased that by 9 percent, 10 percent, and 11 percent, and that does not include these so-called supplemental appropriations, which is maybe one of the reasons that is the preferred approach—come back in, in the middle of the year, and ask for the increased money everybody knows is going to be needed to fund the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
    It is very frustrating, I find, to not be able to get clear, reliable facts from this administration. They act as though this is their government, that we in Congress do not even exist, or that we are an unnecessary and unwanted intrusion into their affairs. So much for a new vision of government. So much for a new tone of bipartisanship. It has become worse, not better. Instead of facing up to these realities, the administration is trying to hide them.
    When I returned from Minnesota last night, I was given a book, by a colleague, Senator Bennett of Utah: "Reagan, Man Of Principle," by John Harmer, a former State senator in California. I just glanced through the beginning pages of it.
    I was struck by this anecdote from the senator. He had been involved as the majority leader there, trying to work out the redistricting bill for 1971. California was going to set the lines for the legislative districts for the State for the next 10 years. They finally, after all this thrashing back and forth and cutting deals and making arrangements, got agreement. Governor Reagan—President-to-be—vetoed that bill.
    So in frustration, the State senator came to President Reagan. He said, reading now directly:
    "What exactly do you want?" I asked, in total frustration.
    His response was so purely honorable that I dared not repeat it to my senatorial colleagues, knowing that they would hoot me out of the room. Yet, though I did not fully appreciate it at the time, the response was just one of many examples of Reagan's strength as a political leader. Reagan, like Thomas Jefferson, had a fundamental faith in the American people and their ability to make the right decisions if only they had all the facts. Not just the Republicans among the people, but of all the people, once they had all of the facts. .    .    .
    I am skipping ahead here, but Governor Reagan said to State Senator Harmer:
    "I am really disappointed .    .    . that individual Republicans are so willing to sell out the best interests of the people in order to save themselves. That is not what I regard as worthy of my signature."
    "John," he said, "I'm as dedicated to the Republican cause as you are. Our party's core philosophy represents the best assurance for the continued freedom and prosperity of the nation. But I am not the governor of just the Republicans. There are millions of people out there who, whether they voted for me or not, expect me to represent them with good judgement and integrity. The issue is not one of protecting what you call the Republican base. The issue is to do that which is right in principle."
    That could apply to the Democratic majorities in other States. There is no monopoly, I have learned here, in truth or wisdom or virtue. But that principle, "to do what is right," and that principle, "to present all the facts forthrightly to the American people," are principles that are certainly needed even more in Washington today, and that stands in marked contrast to what we experience in Washington today.
    We are not being trusted with the facts: Not about the budget, not about the timetables for troop deployments and bringing the troops back home, and not about the circumstances that led up to this war in Iraq. We have a right to those facts here in the Congress. More important, the American people have a right to those facts. We have a right to know how much this war is costing and how we are going to pay for it. We have a right to know how long our troops are going to be over there in Iraq. We have a right to know how we got into that war in Iraq and how what we were told over the last months squares with the truth as it was known at the time.
    What were the facts that led President Bush to say before the Nation, in a televised speech last October 7, that Saddam Hussein could have a nuclear weapon in less than a year when we now know there was no such program in evidence there? Or that Iraq is exploring using unmanned aerial vehicles for missions, targeting the United States, when in fact it was known back then and certainly is known today that those missiles, which were not even used against our invading forces, thank God, had a range of only a few hundred miles and were no threat to the United States?
    What facts led Vice President Cheney to say last August 26 that there is no doubt Saddam Hussein now has weapons of mass destruction, there is no doubt that he is amassing them to use against our friends, our allies, and against us? What caused National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice to say last September that Iraq had provided chemical weapons training to al-Qaida members? What prompted Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld to say last fall that the United States must act quickly to save potentially tens of thousands of citizens? What led the President to say that Saddam Hussein could strike the United States first and inflict massive and sudden horror?
    These are the questions I have. These are some of the facts that need to become known, as the distinguished ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee said just before me on the floor. We need a bipartisan investigation into all these circumstances, into what was known by the intelligence community, what was reported to members of the administration.
    What was reported in top secret briefings to members of the Armed Services Committee which I was invited to attend, 20 or more such briefings over the course of last fall and early into this year?
    What was being told to the administration that was at variance with that information? What caused the administration to speak so emphatically, with certainty, about acts which it seems were not so factual and which were not even presented as absolute facts in the briefings which I attended at the time? We have a right to those answers. Thus far it has been very difficult to get the agreement from colleagues on the other side to undertake these investigations or inquiries, whatever euphemism we use.
    The Senate Intelligence Committee evidently, and hopefully, has agreed to undertake such an inquiry. We have not been able to obtain that consent in the Senate Armed Services Committee. In fact, we are being told such a bipartisan investigation is not going to be forthcoming.
    What recourse does that leave? How do we get to the truth when those in possession of the facts and the information will not provide them? How can we get to the truth when we cannot conduct a bipartisan inquiry or intelligence into obtaining that truth? What does it say about those who would not provide that information or that opportunity to seek the truth? What do they have to hide? What are they afraid we might find out? Why is it we cannot know the circumstances that caused the Commander in Chief to send 150,000 U.S. troops to Iraq, including PFC Edward Herrott being buried in Minnesota this morning, to whom I pay my greatest respects.
    I yield the floor.
