Public Statements
Hardball - Transcript
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 10, 2003
Location: Unknown

SHOW: HARDBALL 19:00
HEADLINE: HARDBALL For July 10, 2003
BYLINE: Mike Barnicle; Jim Miklaszewski; Dick Armey
GUESTS: Gloria Allred; Roger Diamond; Katrina Vanden Heuvel; Kay Daily Hutchinson; Mark Dayton; Tony Perkins; Joe Cook; Howard Fineman
HIGHLIGHT:
The HARDBALL debate: Is the Air Force Academy getting serious about sex abuse or searching for a scapegoat? In the "Political Buzz," former House Majority Leader Dick Armey and "The Nation" editor Katrina Vanden Heuvel square off about the Bush administration's motives for the Iraq war.
BODY:
BARNICLE: So tonight, we have 145,000 of our finest people in Iraq. It's costing taxpayers nearly $4 billion a month. That's billion with a b, to keep them there. Thirty-one have been killed, murdered in the two months since the president told us the war was over. Our people on the ground were trained for combat. Now they're being asked to serve as police officers to prevent chaos or civil disorder from spreading throughout the country.
The president and especially the secretary of defense tell us we're impatient. That we are part of a culture that overreacts to the death of these soldiers. That 31 isn't a whole lot. That it pales in comparison to the homicide rate in places like New York or Los Angeles.
That's correct, unless of course, you're the parents, or the wife, husband or child of a trooper who lies, tonight in a fresh grave here in America. History will probably prove we did the right thing going to Iraq and toppling Saddam Hussein. After all, he was the ultimate weapon of mass destruction. But war is a whole lot more than something on 24-hour cable shows.
War isn't a video game. It is a lethal enterprise that continues today, and raising questions about how much it costs in dollars as well as lives, doesn't mean you're unpatriotic or belong to one political party instead of another. All it mean is that people are looking for answers to questions like how long are we going to be there and what is next.
Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson is a Texas Republican. Senator Mark Dayton is a Minnesota Democrat, who is a member of the Armed Services Committee, and also just returned from Iraq. Senator Hutchinson, let's start with you. What's wrong with this administration? Why can't they just step up to the plate and say, hey, we underestimated what the effect of winning the war in Iraq would be.
SENATOR KAY BAILEY HUTCHINSON, (R)-TEXAS: I think they are very concerned. I think that no one expected to have these serial killings that we have seen in the last month. And I think we're all very frustrated by it. For one thing, Mike, I think we need to capture or find the remains of Saddam Hussein. I think that is causing an agitation that is continuing in Iraq. I think it is very important that we do that. And we need the forced protection processes that would protect our troops who are there.
BARNICLE: Senator Dayton, you just returned from Iraq. First of all, how did you find morale of the troopers there on the ground?
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D)-MINNESOTA: Oh, they're very determined, and the morale is good but they want to come home. And the uncertainty of when they'll be able to come home is a big part of their concern.
BARNICLE: Senator, perhaps you heard the president in the clip in Jim Miklaszewski's piece talking about, there is a legitimate security issue, as you refer to it as, and said they are going to have take we, the United States is going to have to take care of it person by person. Having just been to Iraq, what does that mean to you?
DAYTON: It means that they're underestimating the magnitude of what they face. I agree with Kay that getting Saddam Hussein and his two sons and removing them permanently from Iraq and from this planet is the first order of business. But the administration really didn't prepare to win the country after they won the war. And there aren't the nonmilitary projects, economic developments, social rehabilitation, just basic utilities, power, sewage disposal, none of that is moving forward, and so people see their lives worse off than they were under Saddam Hussein. And that's a big part of the hostility toward the U.S. forces.
BARNICLE: Senator Hutchinson, off what Senator Dayton just said, with spending $4 billion a month now, and Senator Dayton just indicated, and he's just back from Iraq, that the services, you know, not social services as we know them there, but basic services, are missing in Baghdad. How much money are we going to spend, do you think?
HUTCHINSON: Well, our hope, of course, is that we will get help. We want more international help to come in and help us carry this burden. You know, we've done the heavy lifting here. And I think it is time for the other people in the world who are affected by the destabilization of Iraq and the whole middle east, to step up to the plate. And secondly, I think it is important that we get the oil wells pumping and get the economy going in Iraq so that hopefully, they will be able to pay for this out of their own economy. I don't expect there to be this kind of drain for the long haul, but it certainly is there for the short haul.
BARNICLE: Senator Dayton, where are our allies? Why is no one coming to help us? They'll sure be there when they're pumping the oil. They will be in there for a cut of the profits, won't they?
DAILEY: Well, the British are there and they did a superb job in southern Iraq. But we decided to go this basically alone. They say there are 19 other countries, but for many of them, their participation is very minor. And you know, anybody looking at that situation now is going to think two or three time before they send their own forces in there.
BARNICLE: Why think about it two or three times?
DAILEY: Well, because there's not popular support for this war in most of the rest of the world. And those who have taken it, on like Tony Blair, are paying the price at home. So it's very unlikely that somebody else will be thrilled with the prospect of going in there and losing their men and women in that country.
BARNICLE: So -- do you think we should just pack up and go home?
DAILEY: Oh, no, not at all. We're there. We are stuck to there and we are going to have to see it through to a successful conclusion. But we have got to get a nonmilitary effort going to commensurate with what was done militarily, where our armed forces perform just superbly well. And we got to create some momentum forward and then turn it over to the Iraqi government and then start to really get out in serious, because they are going to take two decades to transform that society, and it is going to be convulsive. And we got to get out of there before it starts to shake and doesn't come back.
BARNICLE: Senators, Senator Robert Byrd, your colleague, took to the Senate floor to slam the Bush administration's post-war plan. Here's some of what he said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Senator ROBERT BYRD (D)-WEST VIRGINIA: Our armed forces are trained to win war and not run countries. Putting our men and our women in such an untenable situation is a misuse of our military and a disservice to our military personnel.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BARNICLE: Senator Hutchinson, as the war continues, and as the casualties mount and the costs mount, does the tension and the partisanship in the floor of the Senate increase? I mean, can you notice it on a day-to-day basis?
HUTCHINSON: Well, I hope not and I don't think so, Mike. I do think that all of us, even those who disagree with why we went in, even those who think that we haven't done planning, and there is going to be that kind of criticism, but everyone agrees that we must see this through. We cannot be seen to cut and run. That would be the worst signal in the world.
America has to say what we're going to do and do it and stay committed. So I think now what we have to do is stop the criticism and let's try to get a handle on this. I do think we need to train police forces. They are different from military. And I think as soon as we can do that, it would be the best.
BARNICLE: Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Senator Mark Dayton, thanks very much.
