Public Statements
Iraq
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 10, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

IRAQ
    Mr. DAYTON. Madam President, I thank the senior Senator from Alaska for making possible my opportunity to speak tonight on a trip to Iraq I took last week with several of our colleagues as members of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Senate Intelligence Committee, led by the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, JOHN WARNER, who is an extraordinary leader of the committee. I do not know if his age is classified or not, but at his age, the kind of energy, the kind of determination, the kind of enthusiasm and leadership he showed was just extraordinary. It was a privilege to be on this adventure with him and CARL LEVIN, our ranking member, who celebrated a birthday as we were traveling over there. The two of them set a sterling example for the rest of us to follow.
    Then we met with the real superstars who are in Iraq: the men and women of our Armed Forces. I cannot say enough about the respect and admiration I have for those mostly young men and women from all over this country. They have performed superbly well. They have redefined the words "patriotism" and "courage" for this Senator. I am truly in awe of their skill and their performance under the greatest of danger, and their resolve, which continues to this day.
    They are proud of what they have accomplished, as they should be. They achieved a tremendous military victory in 3 weeks' time, and now they are doing their utmost to preserve that victory while these other factors get resolved, and that is what I wish to address my remarks to this evening.
    Stalwart as they are, those men and women pretty much asked all of us one question: "When are we coming home?" I did not have the answer. The military command with whom we met in Iraq did not have the answer. The Secretary of Defense yesterday did not have that answer. And that uncertainty, as well as the demands that are placed upon them—the risks, the dangers, and the pressures in this god-awful environment with temperatures 115 degrees in the afternoon, sweltering heat, and soldiers dressed in flack jackets, heavy helmets, patrolling, doing what they must do, knowing they are now increasingly targets of Iraqi resistance. It is a gruesome situation they are enduring on behalf of our country and on behalf of the commitments they have undertaken. As I say, they are performing them incredibly well.
    When we met in Baghdad with U.S. Ambassador Bremer and with the commanding general of the U.S. forces, General Sanchez, we asked what they thought was the course that had to be followed, and they both said independently the same thing: The United States had to stay the course in Iraq and keep its presence there until success was achieved.
    We asked, What constitutes success? They each said three things. First, that Saddam Hussein and his sons must be found and removed permanently from Iraq.
    Second, that law and order must be restored to that country.
    And third, that a successor government, an Iraqi government, hopefully a democratically reelected Iraqi government, will be able to replace the U.S. civilian command and begin to run that country successfully.
    The first objective, the elimination of Saddam Hussein and his two sons, should have been accomplished already. It must be accomplished very soon, and I believe it will be accomplished very soon. It is impossible to overstate the terror he strikes in the souls of the people of Iraq. People literally quiver when his name is even mentioned. They refuse to say anything about him. They do not even want to mention his name or respond to questions about him.
    The new local leaders we met with in Kirkuk talked softly, and when his name came up, they talked so softly they were barely audible. It is as if they wanted to recede into the woodwork and become invisible, rather than be subjected to this man's cruelty and tyranny.
    We heard stories about unspeakable cruelty orchestrated by him or his two sons, such as the soccer games played in their Olympic stadium where the members of the losing team would be taken below and tortured and then executed for losing a soccer game. Or even if someone scored the winning goal and it cost one of the son's his bet, that player could be taken down below and tortured and executed. To think of living one's life under those kinds of horrific circumstances at the whim of this insane, cruel, and demonic man and his sons.
    We visited a mass grave site where a couple thousand bodies have been exhumed, the ones not identified and taken away by their Iraqi brothers and sisters. There are thousands of those grave sites, we are told, all over the country.
    There is reason to believe that when those three men are permanently gone, unmistakably gone, identified clearly by the Iraqi people as bodies that are never again to rule Iraq, that more and more of the citizenry will come forward and will be willing to take that crucial first step toward allegiance with the United States but, more importantly, allegiance with their own future, with their own autonomous Iraq that they can create and run themselves.
    After that first goal has been achieved, the other two, bringing law and order to this country and installing a successor government that is going to be viable over the months that will follow, is going to be even more challenging. Right now, U.S. forces are seeking out and training, putting into place some 60,000 to 70,000 police officers all over Iraq.
    This is a monumental undertaking of its own, to screen out the wrong elements, those who were involved before in the Baath Party or secret police, and put them now in charge of law and order all over that country, law and order that is desperately needed because right now it is the U.S. troops who are required to patrol to reconstruct the peace, guarding public property which, we are told, if something has any value at all and is not being guarded, it will be quickly stolen, looted. While our troops are standing guard or patrolling, they are exposed targets. Increasingly, they are the targets of murderers who are seeking vengeance and trying to drive out our forces.
    In fact, the day after we left Baghdad, a Minnesota soldier was killed, PFC Edward Herrgott from Shakopee, MN. He was 20 years old. He was killed, murdered really, by a sniper as he stood guarding the Baghdad Museum. Some of that hostility is being orchestrated by forces, some rumored to be by Saddam Hussein himself trying to retaliate against the United States military for the victories that were achieved, but some of it is also said to be caused by the lack of improvements that have failed to be made in the basic services upon which Iraqi citizens depend.
    There is an article in yesterday's New York Times and I ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the RECORD at the completion of my remarks.
    The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
    Mr. DAYTON. Let me read a couple of excerpts because this is really the crux of where I think we have fallen behind in our effort and where, until we do make up that effort and start showing some visible success, our troops are going to have an increasingly difficult time and increasingly become targets of hostility and reaction and where they are going to be bound to that country longer than they would need to be.
    It describes the city of Abu Ghraib which is just west of Baghdad. It says:
    The constituents' woes came down to the essentials. They had no power, and thus no clean water. Their local elected leader was besieged with all of these requests for basic necessities of life.
    Mr. Dari could do nothing for the man who, lacking electricity, stayed up all night fanning a sick child, nothing for the 5-year-old child who was left legless by unexploded ordnance that detonated, a sight that caused him to weep. He could do nothing for the multitudes complaining of cars, weapons or relatives taken by American forces, other than give their names to the Americans. He could do nothing for those lacking drinking water or waiting for food rations.
    "What do you tell the people—have more patience?" he asked rhetorically. "Till when?"
    This local Iraqi leader went on to say:
    "Conditions have never been worse," he said bluntly. "We've never been through such a long bad period."
    The city has had only 1 to 3 hours of power a day in recent weeks. Drinking water cannot be pumped without electricity so people have to take their water from dirty canals. As I said before, when we were there, the temperatures in the afternoon were 115 degrees. I was told a couple of days before we arrived it had reached 130 degrees. If there is no electricity for air conditioning and other cooling, there are serious problems.
    Crime, rare under the old government, is rampant. The leader said that when he first met with the Americans he told them that they did not have much time to meet the expectations of the citizenry, and that he believes time is almost up. Yet, as of the other day, neither he nor the American colonel in charge of the troops there had ever had contact with the American-led civilian administration ostensibly governing Iraq, even though this man, Mr. Dari, oversees an area that is home to 900,000 people.
    It is an impossible situation for our service men and women to be trying to uphold civil order in a foreign country with virtually no interpreters available to communicate with citizens, when they are in that state of frustration and agitation.
    We met yesterday with the Secretary of Defense in the Armed Services Committee, who pointed to progress that has been made in this respect. I am sure that there has been progress in certain areas, but there is not enough progress being made in these nonmilitary efforts. They are not occurring in enough places in the country to take hold among the citizenry. And where they are occurring, at least from what we saw on our trip, it is the U.S. and British troops who are performing these nonmilitary services.
    For example, in Kirkuk, which is north of Baghdad, U.S. forces conduct raids at night against what are believed to be enemy cells of resistance, and then by day they are hauling away thousands of tons of accumulated garbage, old garbage, and repairing rundown schools. The British troops with whom we met in Basra, in southern Iraq, are rebuilding a hospital. They are doing wonderful work, but that is not what they are there to do.
    To ask them to be engaged in military activities, policing the streets of these cities, doing repair work or hauling away old accumulated garbage in their spare time, which they have done, is just really senseless. It is overburdening them. It is unfair to them, and it means that not enough of these nonmilitary projects, economic rehabilitation, social rehabilitation programs, are underway or visible anywhere in Iraq for the citizens of that country to see that they have hope for a better future.
    They expect the United States of America, which they view as omnipotent because we came in and swept their military aside and occupied those cities and the country, to deliver services as basic as electricity or running water, and when we cannot do so and when the conditions are markedly worse than they were under Saddam Hussein, we have a very serious problem with the reception there. Our troops, our young men and women, are literally going to pay for these failures with their lives.
    I was recently told about a story of a company in Ohio that makes hospital surgical beds. They were willing to send as many of these surgical tables over to Iraq as could be used—such as for the 5-year-old legless boy who needed surgery—to save lives and be recognized as having come over from the United States of America to help dress the wounds, literally and figuratively, that exist there. The company is still waiting to hear back from the Deputy Secretary of Defense's office regarding that offer to donate and transport, at their expense, these hospital facilities.
    If the United States can bring in, as we have because we must, tent cities with electric generators, with sewage disposal systems, with portable toilets, why can't electric generators be brought in that will produce some of the electricity that these cities need so that they can again appreciate the benefits of what we have brought to them, not only the liberation of spirit and soul and body, but also the ability to function as they must and move forward as they must?
    I urge the administration that the same efforts be made, with the same intensity of effort, the same—not quite the same funding but considerable effort be made—to bring about this renovation.
    Ultimately, that reconstruction is going to take decades. It is the responsibility of the Iraqi people to undertake it and to pay for it, but in the short run, in the immediate sense, those projects are not going to occur unless the United States is the initiator, provides the leadership, and provides the initial financial resources. If we do not see a plethora of those kinds of improvements overall, if we do not see children who are outside playing with soccer balls donated by American children who sent them over there, we do not establish that basic connection, then we are going to be there far longer than we should be and longer than anybody over there now wants us to be. We are going to suffer casualties far greater than we should.
    So I implore the President and the administration to undertake this effort with the same magnitude of skill and American know-how that succeeded so wonderfully militarily so we can bring our folks home.
    I yield the floor.
