Public Statements
Opinion Piece by Senator Mark Dayton - Dayton Urges Administration to Focus on Rebuilding Iraq
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 8, 2003
Location: Unknown

Opinion Piece by Senator Mark Dayton
Dayton Urges Administration to Focus on Rebuilding Iraq
At the time President Bush responded, "Bring 'em on," to Iraqi insurgents, I was in Iraq with other U.S. Senators, meeting and eating lunch with American soldiers north of Baghdad. Those extraordinary men and women would be far better served by the President's daily resolve to "Bring 'em home."
It has been more than two months since he flew to the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln, declared victory in Iraq, and flew home. Our troops are still fighting and dying in Iraq to preserve that victory. They won the war, but they aren't coming home.
The President has vowed to "stay the course" in Iraq, until success is achieved there. During our meetings in Baghdad, the U.S. Ambassador and the Commanding General of U.S. Forces both defined "success" as the removal of Saddam Hussein and his two sons; the restoration of civil order; and the installation of a new Iraqi government.
Eliminating the three former rulers, who still terrify Iraqi citizens, should have been accomplished already and must be concluded immediately. The other two conditions of success, however, cannot be achieved or sustained by military force alone. They will require improvements in the country's desperate economic and social conditions. Where those conditions become even worse than before, anti-American hostility has escalated, and attacks against our troops have increased.
The most urgent needs are basic, like reliable electricity for air-conditioning and other cooling needs in 115° afternoons. The Bush Administration, however, did not adequately prepare to win the country after winning the war. Right now, there are not nearly enough nonmilitary projects under way in Iraq to make a noticeable difference. Overburdened U.S. and British forces are responsible not only for continuing military operations but also for conducting police patrols, maintaining civil order, guarding public property, and just about everything else.
North of Baghdad, for example, American forces attack pockets of resistance at night; by day, they remove tons of old garbage and rebuild schools. They say that they don't need additional help with their night work; but they need large infusions of resources throughout Iraq for electricity generation, sewage disposal, building demolition and construction, trash removal, hospital renovations, school repairs, new playgrounds, and at least 10,000 soccer balls for children's games. Those projects will only begin the vast economic and social restorations, for which the Iraqi people must be responsible. But few of them will begin now without American initiative, expertise, and financing. And if many of them don't begin soon, it will be disastrous. Unfortunately, those projects are not yet priorities for the Bush Administration. Their most-developed initiative is an intensive hunt for Iraqi weapons of mass destruction. Since, thank God, no such weapons were used against invading U.S. and British forces, and none were discovered thereafter by U.S. troops or U.N. inspectors, their unexplained absence should not be anyone's most urgent concern.
It is, however, because another team of U.S. intelligence experts and military attaches is searching for anyone in Iraq who has weapons of mass destruction, has seen them, or has information about them. I have no doubt that this team will capture or create something which will cover the tales (and tails!) now exposed. Stories are being peddled about new evidence, which will explain everything and justify anything. The information is classified, but trust us!
There have already been far too many exaggerations and misrepresentations about Iraq's supposed weapons of mass destruction and their purported threat to our survival. The perpetrators of those fictions, old and new, should be ashamed of themselves.
They should also be ashamed of giving priority, personnel, and money to trying to justify past statements and actions, rather than producing future successes which will bring our troops home. That should be the Administration's top priority, and America's.
