Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account: Congressional Trip to Iraq
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 8, 2003
Location: Unknown

Your Dayton's Account:
Congressional Trip to Iraq
I recently traveled to Iraq with other members of the Senate Armed Services Committee. There we met, traveled, and ate meals with many of our servicemen and women, including several from Minnesota. One of the pilots of the C-130 transport plane that flew us into Baghdad was Denis Paulson from Luverne. At the airport, I met with Kari Dietel, a young woman from Arlington. The next day, I ate lunch with several other Minnesota soldiers in northern Iraq.
I was deeply moved by those extraordinary men and women. They are showing remarkable patriotism and courage in terrible conditions. Some of them must endure daytime temperatures exceeding 115°, while dressed in full combat gear. Others live in makeshift tents alongside their tanks and armored vehicles. They might get one hot meal a day.
Two months after President Bush declared victory in Iraq, Americans are still fighting and dying there to preserve that victory. The day after I left Baghdad, a Minnesota serviceman, PFC. Edward J. (Jim) Herrgott, was shot and killed there. He is a true American hero. Our deepest condolences go to his parents, Edward and Marcia Herrgott in Shakopee, and to the rest of his family.
While our troops are deservedly proud of what they have accomplished, they want to come home. And no one can tell them when that will be. The President has vowed to "stay the course" in Iraq, until success is achieved there. During our meetings in Baghdad, the U.S. Ambassador and the Commanding General of U.S. Forces both defined "success" as the removal of Saddam Hussein and his two sons; the restoration of civil order; and the installation of a new Iraqi government.
Eliminating the three former rulers, who still terrify Iraqi citizens, should have been accomplished already and must be concluded immediately. The other two conditions of success, however, cannot be achieved or sustained by military force alone. They will require improvements in the country's desperate economic and social conditions. Where those conditions have become even worse than before, anti-American hostility has escalated, and attacks against our troops have increased.
The most urgent needs are basic, like reliable electricity for air-conditioning and other cooling needs in 115° afternoons. The Bush Administration, however, did not adequately prepare to win the country after winning the war. Right now, there are not nearly enough nonmilitary projects under way in Iraq to make a noticeable difference. Overburdened U.S. and British forces are responsible not only for continuing military operations but also for conducting police patrols, maintaining civil order, guarding public property, and just about everything else.
North of Baghdad, for example, American forces attack pockets of resistance at night; by day, they remove tons of old garbage and rebuild schools. They say that they don't need additional help with their night work; but they need large infusions of resources throughout Iraq for electricity generation, sewage disposal, building demolition and construction, trash removal, hospital renovations, school repairs, new playgrounds, and at least 10,000 soccer balls for children's games. Those projects will only begin the vast economic and social restorations, for which the Iraqi people must be responsible. But few of them will begin now without American initiative, expertise, and financing. And if many of them don't begin soon, our troops will face even greater hostility.
I have written President Bush and respectfully urged him to make the safe return of our armed forces his highest priority. Two months ago, he declared victory in Iraq. He needs to declare "success" there as soon as possible, and "bring 'em home."
