Public Statements
Press Conference with Senator John Warner (R-VA); Senator Carl Levin (D-MI); Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV); Senator Susan Collins (R-ME); Senator....
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 3, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

HEADLINE: PRESS CONFERENCE WITH SENATOR JOHN WARNER (R-VA); SENATOR CARL LEVIN (D-MI); SENATOR JAY ROCKEFELLER (D-WV); SENATOR SUSAN COLLINS (R-ME); SENATOR JACK REED (D-RI); SENATOR BEN NELSON (D-NE); SENATOR PAT ROBERTS (R-KS); AND SENATOR MARK DAYTON (D-MN)
 
TOPIC: RECENT TRIP TO IRAQ
BODY:
SEN. WARNER: Good morning, or I might say good afternoon -- we've been traveling straight through from Iraq, and arrived just an hour or so, but felt it important to come and report to America on our responsibilities as members of the Armed Services Committee. We were joined by the vice chairman of the Intelligence Committee, Senator Rockefeller. But these are our responsibilities: to go out and be with the armed forces of the United States wherever they are in the world. I want to say from the beginning the many years I've been in the Senate I never traveled with a harder working finer group of individuals. And I would guess, estimate, we shook hands with well over a thousand men and women of the armed forces of the United States and the coalition forces.
We started our first visit in Basra, where we met with the British troops out of our profound respect of the prime minister of Great Britain and the men and women of the coalition forces sent here by Great Britain. We then proceeded to Baghdad, and from Baghdad to Kirkuk, where we left yesterday -- three days in all -- north, central and south. We were the first Senate delegation to cover that depth and breadth.
We started in Qatar with a very lengthy briefing from General Abizaid, who as you know will fleet up very shortly to become the top officer replacing General Franks -- spent several hours with his teams on issues of intelligence, on what we are doing with respect to the search for the WMD, what we are doing with respect for the search for Saddam Hussein and other principal lieutenants. And I say for myself and I think my colleagues who joined me we have profound respect for the men and women of the armed forces, from the generals right down to the privates. They are doing everything they can possibly do to continue to make progress.
The basic goals have been achieved on the military side. But progress remains in certain areas. For example, we were with the 4th ID yesterday, and you hear about the actions being taken, but they are being taken directly against those who are continuing to challenge the coalition forces. Three operations by the 4th ID -- 3,000 men and women in the first operation, 6,000 in the second operation, and several thousand in the operation which is still underway. Those operations have reaped exactly what they have set out to do: the leadership of those who are still trying to cause problems and caches of hidden gold, wealth, other things, that were ripped and stolen from the Iraqi people by the Saddam Hussein machine.
So we salute our men and women of the armed forces, and we turn now to the civilian side, headed up by Ambassador Bremer. He has put together a first-class team. To his right was a British diplomat. Together they're working with eight other nations that have joined in the coalition effort, primarily on the military side, but to some extent on the civilian side. Much remains to be done. For example, the power situation. But you have to understand, as Bremer said, prior to the war the economy of Iraq was basically in a shambles. It had been starved by Saddam Hussein, taking his dollars to build palaces and to buy weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I had an understanding of the magnitude of the weapons that Saddam Hussein had, but tens upon tens of thousands of weapons sites are constantly being found where he stashed away these weapons. Much remains to be done. Take power. Unfortunately, they brought the existing structure up to where they were about level to what it was prewar, when various types of sabotage and looting set in on the power lines. We witnessed where they had taken the power grids that supported the wires, cut them off, bring the wires down, strip the wires for the copper. So those are the types of questions that we are facing. But we are making progress.
In conclusion, I read the statements of the president this morning, and what he said is very clear to me. I have been privileged to be associated with the men and women of the armed forces for over half a century, having served modestly twice myself in uniform in two conflicts. Now there's a message to the troops that you've got the right stuff and you're there to stay, and I am confident in the coalition forces, particularly the American forces. You are well trained, well equipped, you have got the morale, and we're going to finish the job. That's what he said, and I support the president in that.
I'll leave it to the others, Senator Roberts, Senator Rockefeller, to detail the WMD, Senator Collins. We dealt -- I think the first delegation to meet with Iraqis at length. We sought them out. And so I think on the whole it was a very successful operation that we witnessed. It will succeed, and let no one think that anyone is going to stop us in fulfilling freedom for the Iraqi people and turning over to the Iraqi people their nation to govern as soon as possible.
Senator Levin?
SEN. LEVIN: I guess my first impression is that Iraq is a place with many different types of problems, many histories in different parts of the country, many challenges. As a result, the south is very different from the middle part of the country, very different from the Sunni triangle, so-called, where most of the Baathist resistance is -- very different from the area somewhat north of that in Kirkuk, where the American forces are truly viewed as liberators. And that's very different from the Kurdish area even further to the north. But it is essential that we finish the job of providing security to Iraq, of reconstructing Iraq, and providing them with the opportunity for democratic government.
To help those goals, we must reach out to other countries much more than we have to date. There's been some reluctance on the part of other countries to join us. We have got to try to overcome that reluctance, and we can do that, I believe, in a number of ways. First, we must end the feud with Germany and France and with the U.N. We must seek the help of those countries. We must seek the support and participation of NATO and the U.N. A number of countries will join us, I believe, if there is that U.N. or NATO participation that otherwise might be reluctant to do so.
This will have a number of benefits. First, our troops are stretched very thin. We need the participation of other countries for that reason alone. Secondly, the United States, particularly in some parts of Iraq, in and around Baghdad, is a target -- a target of the Baathist remnants who have been removed from power, who had privilege that they have now lost, and who will try to create chaos in order to return to power. So particularly in those areas where the United States, since we were the instrument of their removal, are the target of their violence and terror, it seems to me could well try to reduce that target, the size of that target, if we could be substituted by forces from other countries. So that is another advantage of obtaining -- reaching out, seeking -- not just welcoming but seeking the support of countries, even though they did not support our going into Iraq to begin with.
I am glad the president yesterday said that we are going to be in Iraq for a significant period of time with significant forces. I believe that was long overdue. It's important that the American people be prepared for the long haul.
Another thing that we must do obviously -- and Senator Warner referred to this -- is turn over power to the Iraqi civilians as quickly as possible. We saw some real success in Kirkuk in that regard yesterday in terms of local government taking over much of the power, and it was quite reassuring. Indeed, it was quite inspiring what we saw in Kirkuk, both with the different factions and forces in Kirkuk coming together to participate in local government, but also with the people, the welcoming of the people to Americans and to us -- although at a distance -- we didn't -- we weren't able to mingle -- but nonetheless at a distance -- very strong, very positive, very -- an outpouring I'd say of enthusiasm towards Americans in Kirkuk. That doesn't mean there's not problems -- there are some problems still in that area as well.
Finally, I would say that one of the things we must do a lot better is to get the positive message of what we are doing in Iraq across to the Iraqi people. We have done very poorly in this regard. We have our own TV up, but we do not have our message up, the message that we are not there to dominate, we are not there to occupy. We are there to help restore and reconstruct. And the Iraqi people in literally hundreds of places where we are reconstructing -- we have projects going, development projects -- probably over 1,000 places in Iraq -- the Iraqi people must see Iraqis talking about those projects on Iraqi television, or on our television more accurately, that goes into their homes.
There was a chart given to us yesterday by -- when we visited with the 4th Infantry Division. This chart shows just in their area some of the projects that they are involved in in reconstructing Iraq. And it is really an eyeopener, and it would be an eye-opener for the Iraqi people, because if the Iraqi people feel that in fact the people who are terrorists and violent are destroying their future, they are going to turn on the killers of their dream. And that is very important us and our security. "New ambulances in Tikrit" -- I am reading now from this thing. "Remodeling a school in Tikrit. Facility repairs to the Ministry of Agriculture in Tikrit, bridge repairs in Tikrit, university repairs in Tikrit, health clinic supplies in Tikrit; youth soccer funding in Tikrit" -- it goes on and on. And this is one of the ways in which we are going to help rebuild Iraq and to rebuild the confidence I believe of the world community that the destruction and removal of Saddam Hussein was a very critical plus for the world.
SEN. WARNER: We'll get that reproduced.
SEN. LEVIN: We have copies of it.
SEN. WARNER: Thank you. Senator Roberts?
SEN. ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First and foremost, I would like to second the comments of my colleagues. I couldn't be more prouder of the men and women of the armed forces, as mentioned by Senator Warner. And I want to acknowledge the outstanding contributions of the men and women of our agencies that deal with intelligence. These are the people you will not see on the network news, and they won't get public recognition of any kind, but they are working 24/7 under the same demanding conditions to ensure our really ultimate success, knowing full aware of their service and sacrifice will go simply unrecognized. They are a very special breed of people, and America can be proud of each and every one of them.
One thing became very clear to me, even though we only spent three days -- south, central and in the north: Iraq has the potential to be a very prosperous nation. It has very rich natural resources, arable land, a very educated people, and a history of prosperity prior to Saddam Hussein. Now, I'm from Kansas, and I was impressed with the agricultural potential of the country, especially in regards to irrigation. Now, while there is evidence of precise and targeted destruction in regards to the war, the country, as has been indicated by my two colleagues, has been absolutely devastated by Saddam. He really brutalized his people. You don't really get that from the TV coverage until you see that in the faces of the Iraqis.
I think the next few months will be crucial, but I believe a very free and prosperous, and also democratic, Iraq is achievable, but it's going to take time, as the president has now indicated, and a multinational commitment, as Carl has been talking about. We have eight nations taking part -- 33 will. And I just read the other day where Secretary Rumsfeld indicates that number could swell to 70. That's very, very important.
Finally, in regard to Saddam Hussein we must find Saddam Hussein and his sons. When we do, then the people of Iraq will no longer live in fear of his return, which is a real and palatable state of mind of many Iraqi citizens. You can see it in their faces, you can hear it in their voices. Our CODEL visited a massive 11,000 body gravesite, and you still see the bodies there waiting to be claimed. To see the remains of those not claimed or really identified was indeed a very, very grim reminder of the barbaric nature of Saddam. He killed in fact 1.3 million of his fellow citizens. I think it's going to be very difficult for them to embrace a new-found freedom and become full partners with us until the shadow of Saddam is erased from their lives.
Now, as to WMD, it is going to take additional time to uncover Saddam's weapons programs -- not the finished product, but the program. This was a program designed to be hidden -- hidden by people who knew what their fate would be if they revealed it. We are making progress. Every day we find someone who leads us to another piece of the puzzle. I believe that David Kay, who is now heading up the search for WMD under the Iraq survey group, understands this challenge, and the critical importance of finding the people who will actually reveal the details of the WMD program. We can't dig up every rose bush in Baghdad or in Iraq. We need the people who are familiar with the program to show us where it is hidden. Our success lies not with repeated site inspections that have been looted -- (phone rings) -- you want to turn that off? (Laughter) -- (phone still ringing) --
SEN. WARNER: You can't turn it off either.
SEN. ROBERTS: No. That's a call from my wife who wants to know why I'm not home yet. (Laughter.) It's probably the best thing I could say for the press conference.
At any rate, let me get back to David Kay. He's doing an outstanding job. Our success lies not with repeated site inspections that have been looted -- and looted deliberately -- but what is called the exploitation of documents, and also people and information, both of which are underway in a very aggressive and a comprehensive program by Dr. Kay and the survey group. My judgement is that there is going to be breaking, positive news on that front in the very near term.
Let me say something about the troop levels. The key in my view will be to develop a rotation plan to keep our troops fresh. All the generals we talked to said they had enough troops. I don't know of any general that wouldn't want more -- but they said they have enough troops -- 171,000 in country. If we get anywhere from 30,- to 50,000 international troops, and we are successful in regards to the Iraqi police force and the armed services, we will have enough boots on the ground.
To a man, the soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines told us they don't care so much how long they will be in Iraq, so long as when they will be rotating home. And to that extent, we certainly owe it to them.
Let me say there seems to be a real inclination in the media to really portray our troops as sitting ducks. Nothing could be farther from the truth. They are on the offensive every day and with great success. Both of the operations, Operation Scorpion and Sidewinder, certainly resulted in key losses for the terrorists -- big losses for the terrorists -- and the capture of massive amounts of military weapons and ammunition.
I want to second what Carl said in regards to the civil affairs progress that we are making. There is an incredible story that is not getting told. All across Iraq we along with our coalition partners are undertaking hundreds of projects. Carl, I think there were 1,500 that were mentioned. One day we will raid a known Fedayeen meeting place; the next we will be repairing a school or fixing a bridge. And there's an amazing amount of good will being built between the Iraqi people and our people on the ground. And that's a story that you should tell, we should tell, because it really displays the best that we have to offer in what I believe is the future of our new relationship in regards to Iraq.
The new Ministry of Culture -- he's an Italian in Baghdad -- along with an American colonel, whose nickname is "Buttons" -- held a symphony for the first time in 30 years last week in Iraq. The last piece that they played was the old Iraqi national anthem. All of the Iraqis, which was a packed house, stood up, cheered, and there wasn't a dry eye in the place. The key issue is resolve: We can do this thing, we can do it well, and I think we are doing it well.
Senator Rockefeller.
SEN. ROCKEFELLER: There is a sheet of paper which is being made available to those who would attack our soldiers that we learned of. Our soldiers obviously wear body armor, and then they have kevlar helmets, which are extremely heavy. And the question is: How do you kill them? And this is for those -- I'm not saying it's a majority situation at all, but that there is an organized resistance to the American presence, and they are getting smarter about the way they do it. And this sheet of paper outlines how you come up and then you kill that American or wound that American by shooting beneath the bottom of the kevlar helmet and the top of the body armor. And that has been practiced in a number of cases.
Why do I say that? I say that only to indicate from that point of view that this is a long and difficult journey that we have to continue on together as a people, as a Congress, as a nation. I don't think there's any chance that we cannot succeed at this, unless the American Congress and the American people are not talked to in very straight terms by the executive branch and by those of us in Congress and by those of you in the media -- although it is not your job to do that -- that this will take time. It is going to take money, it is going to take resolve. Americans do not necessarily have long attention spans. But Iraq -- doing Iraq correctly, reconstructing it -- the money that goes into not just the power of electricity, but the power of good work being done of the information about that. All of these things help to recreate a nation. And this is observed by other nations -- not just Iran and North Korea, but many others. Are the Americans willing to stay the course? And that is not just a question of winning the major military victory. It's a question of winning the reconstruction and the violence and the death that continue with that reconstruction. It's an extraordinarily difficult balance.
I want to conclude by saying that I think you have heard probably hundreds of people come up and talk about our troops, but there is something about being there, even only for three days, in 120 or 130 degree heat, with soldiers that are anywhere from 19 to in their 50s, who have been fighting, who have no relief, are on the job seven days a week -- have no relief. The new general is just figuring out a way to try and get them some temporary relief. But it is absolutely inspiring to see the faces of these young men and women and their determination and know what they have been through, and the dangers that lie in front of them every single day from people who are angry that we are making the progress that we are.
WMD is a subject that is yet to be fully uncovered. I want to be optimistic, and I will be optimistic that we will find what it was that in a sense projected us into this conflict in the first place. But it is not going to be I think a quick process, and as my chairman said, I think one of the keys is getting Saddam Hussein and his two sons so that the Iraqi people know it, because the correlation between his potential coming back and the fear in the voices of people that we talk to, including one person at an oil reserve whom we asked a question about Saddam Hussein: Do you think he's alive or dead? -- and he's -- there were nothing but Americans around him, and he couldn't answer the question. He did not -- the fear built into him did not allow him to say yes or no. He said, you know, Who knows?
So there is a shadow over that country -- far more so than I thought when I went there -- of the lack of the proven death of Saddam Hussein and his two sons. And I agree that this is a situation which has to be taken on. There are groups working on that, working on it full-time, they are fully soldiered and they are fully motivated. But this needs to happen.
SEN. WARNER: Senator Collins.
SEN. COLLINS: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to start with my impressions by picking up where Senator Rockefeller left off. First, let me say I was so proud of our troops. Despite the very harsh conditions that they are experiencing, despite the dangers, their morale is still very high.
I talked to a soldier from Maine about his experience, and he said, Yes, it's been hard and the heat is horrible. But he said, You know, I have helped give the Iraqi people the most precious gift of all, their freedom. And he was so proud of the role that he had played in freeing this country from the breath-taking brutality of Saddam Hussein.
As I traveled around Iraq, I was struck by the disparity, the inequality in wealth. You would go from Saddam's palatial surroundings to virtual slums, with sewer systems that did not work. We learned of one palace compound in the north that has 100 buildings, each of which has more than 10,000 square feet, this in a city without a working sewer. It was extraordinary to see the crumbling infrastructure and realize that it was not due to damage from the war but rather 30 years of looting by Saddam Hussein.
I was also struck by how important it is that we capture or kill Saddam and his two sons. As my colleagues have indicated, there's a pervasive climate of fear that is impeding the recovery, particularly in central and southern Iraq. There is a fear that he will return, that he will come back. And that fear prevents us from making progress as rapidly as we otherwise would, and that fear emboldens those who would attack our troops.
Our troops by night are doing strikes against the pockets of resistance that remain. By day they are renovating schools, helping hospitals, administering measles shots. It truly is an extraordinary effort.
I am convinced that we will be successful in helping the Iraqi people achieve self-government. We saw that in the north in particular, where the north has already taken tentative moves to electing their own mayor in the community of Kirkuk. It was wonderful to see those first tentative steps towards a democratic society. Prior to the war we heard all these reports that Iraq might well fracture into three separate states. That is not going to happen. There is a rising Iraqi nationalism that bodes well for the future. But it is going to take time. It is going to be a long, arduous task, and it is going to take resolve and the continued backing of the American people.
SEN. WARNER: Thank you. Senator Reed.
SEN. REED: Well, thanks very much, Mr. Chairman. It was a privilege traveling with my colleagues, and it was an even greater privilege to visit with American forces in Iraq. I was particularly pleased to be able to see some of my Rhode Islanders, some National Guardsmen and women from our MP Brigade who were there.
The conventional battle is over, but the fighting goes on. There is insurgent action that is directed at our troops in a very calculated, very determined way. These insurgents are composed of unrepentant Baathists. They have nothing to lose. And based upon what we saw in terms of their conduct before, they will stoop to anything to survive and persevere -- although Islamic fundamentalists and criminal elements.
Our military forces are taking the right approach. They are very aggressive in trying to sweep through, disrupt these networks, capture individuals and capture caches of weapons, and there are extraordinary amounts of weapons and ammunition in Iraq.
Now, the security situation is inextricably linked to the economic and social progress. You can't have one without the other. We cannot have security in Iraq without economic progress and political progress, and we can't have political progress or economic progress without security. The Iraq people are plagued by a residual fear of Saddam Hussein. But also I think they are standing back somewhat wary, trying to determine who will be the next face of Iraq. And also will their lives be improved? And at this junction in many places those lives have not yet been improved.
As my colleagues have indicated, there are three distinct areas in Iraq. In the north we visited with the 4th Infantry Division and soldiers of the 173rd Airborne Brigade, and they are making quite a bit progress. Their units are actually living in Kirkuk, small units. They feel safe enough and secure enough, and their presence establishes a sense of security so that the local police can also operate there.
But they have a thorny task. As Chairman Warner suggested and we were told, there are still over 2,344 ammunition supply points in that area, containing all sorts of ammunition that have to be secured. It just gives you an indication of the proliferation of small arms and conventional weapons throughout Iraq.
In the South, the British seem very confident of what's taking place and what will take place, although we -- they had an incident just a few days ago in al-Amarah.
The Iranian influence has not been suggested by military leaders as being critical at this moment, although I think everyone recognizes Iran is intensely interested in what is happening in Iraq, particularly in southern Iraq. It is in the central part of Iraq, Baghdad and to the west and to the immediate south, where the critical struggle is taking place, where the security situation is most challenged. And we have to do our utmost to resolve that security situation.
Having undertaken this mission, we must follow through. It will take years and great resources, including a robust presence of American forces, even with international help. And we can anticipate waves of violence directed against our troops, and some of these could be intense waves of violence.
In some respects, we're in a race, a very complicated race. We're sprinting to establish a minimum level of order, security, economic process and a political process.
And when we finish that sprint, we'll begin a long marathon to sustain what we've built.
Thank you.
SEN. WARNER: Thank you.
Senator Ben Nelson.
SEN. BEN NELSON (D-NE): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
As I think here on the eve of the 4th of July of the significance of freedom that we all take nearly for granted and hold so dear, it was particularly moving to recognize that in one respect, the Iraqi people were experiencing their first 4th of July tomorrow. Their freedom is far different than ours today because they don't enjoy the opportunities that they are going to enjoy at some point down the road.
Iraq, as you look at it from the standpoint of geography, also breaks out into the areas where more progress has been made. In other words, in the south, progress has been slower. In the central area, it's been particularly slow. But in the north, with the Kurd influence, it's been much stronger. Part of this, I think, is because of the presence of Saddam over the years having a greater presence in the central and the southern area than in the north.
There's a fear. The fear runs through the country that he'll be back; that he's not gone, that he will come back. And until we're able to establish that he will not come back, by apprehending him in some fashion, we're going to have a longer recovery and a longer war that we would ever otherwise expect.
The war continues today. It's not won yet. The peace for -- the war to fight to gain peace continues today. It's not won yet. But there are degrees of success that have been explained to you already -- the success in the north, our expectation for growing success in the central and the south -- but in almost every instance, it will be accelerated by the location, apprehension and elimination of the question about whether Saddam or his two sons will be back. We have to make sure that they will not be back and the Iraqi people understand that. And out of that fear that they have today will grow, I think, the freedom of tomorrow.
Thank you.
SEN. WARNER: Thank you.
Senator Dayton?
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D-MN): Thank you.
We were told unequivocally by the military command that the war continues and it's being engaged actively by U.S. forces. We were told that the next 60 to 90 days would be crucial, and that, while it will take time, time is not on our side. And so I want to bring my sense of the urgency of the situation and the urgency of the full- fronted U.S. involvement to win three wars, one military, which we are winning. And our troops -- I will just say what others have said -- are just phenomenal, just unbelievably extraordinary, the courage and the morale and the dedication.
And they're going after the remaining military targets, which, as others have said, are Saddam Hussein, his two sons and the key people around him, who must be eliminated, who will be found. That effort is going to be successful, I have no doubt.
Just by illustration, one of the bodyguards, they believe a bodyguard of Saddam Hussein, was captured, and in his backyard they dug up 8.8 million U.S. dollars and over a million dollars worth of U.S. -- of jewelry. So the resources that are available to try to incite these resistances to U.S. presence is still ongoing and has to be rooted out.
But we also have to win, as my colleagues have said, the war for the economy, and we have to win the war for the society. And both of those need more resources than the United States has committed thus far. It's not a lack of effort by the military at all. They're staging rages (sic) by night and then turning around soldiers and rebuilding schools or clearing away trash by day. But they're overextended, and we don't have the other backup capabilities that should have been foreseen and planned for because we knew we were going to win this military engagement.
And to have not sufficient electricity when we should have calculated ahead of time what the needs are going to be, that's a visible manifestation to the Iraqi citizens whether they have a viable society and a functioning economy or not. And we're falling short in that regard. Yes, we are encountering resistance and that's proven to be problematic, but we set up -- as we learned in Kirkuk yesterday -- generators, set up a whole tent city for our forces. We've got to bring in generators. We have to bring in whatever is necessary to restore electricity to that country now and also to be refurbishing the existing plants and to be building new plants so that next summer and the summer after that, they have a functioning society.
With the communications and the society, we found one interpreter. I'm sure there are a few more around, but there are a terrible shortage of interpreters to communicate. There's a lack of communication, as has been said, of the United States' -- the breadth of our effort, the successes, the progress. That is a void of communication with the Iraqi people that's being filled by the Iranian broadcasts in television and radio. And it's just pointless for us to be failing to engage that communications effort and to bring in production people to film these successes, what's really going on, to package that and put it on television and radio.
And if I could say anything to this Bush administration, it would be the need to bring in these resources -- financial and people and strategic -- to back up our military because that's where the war is going to be won and lost over the next three to six months. And the Iraqi people desperately want us to win. They have high expectations for us. They think we're omnipotent. They think we're compassionate. So when they see some of the lack of progress, then they conclude that we're not concerned, that we're not going to be successful, and then the fear results.
So we've got to bring this effort into overdrive immediately, and we've got to bring the American presence into Iraq in a multifaceted way. We've got to do what this administration sometimes finds it difficult to do, which is rebuild a nation. And it's a tremendous opportunity to showcase U.S. know-how, U.S. technology, U.S. compassion. If we bring all that into Iraq and make a dramatic transformation very quickly in that country, we'll not only win the hearts and minds of Iraq, but we'll have an enormous impact in the world that's watching.
SEN. WARNER: As you can see, this was a -- and I may say a very hardworking, conscientious delegation pursuing our mission in a bipartisan way. And we received total cooperation from Secretary Rumsfeld, Ambassador Bremer, General Franks, General Abizaid. And I think at every juncture, on both the civilian side and the military sides, our questions were responded to truthfully and fully, and they gave their own independent views when solicited.
On the subject of troop levels, the president, I think very wisely and properly, has directed General Abizaid to go and look at the thing and give him a review in July. Basically, most of the senior officers said we have sufficient troops. To send more at this time could give a signal, maybe, to the insurgents that they are making progress and we need more to contain them. That's not the case. Might also indicate that, well, we're there to stay, with more troops and more troops, and not to depart as soon as we can turn over the government to the Iraqi people.
So on the whole, it was a very successful trip. We open ourselves now to your questions.
Q Senator, mentioning troop levels, yesterday the administration was talking of possibly sending troops to Liberia on a peacekeeping mission. Are you concerned that the troop levels or the military will be stretched too thin? And do you think sending troops to Liberia would be the proper course of action?
SEN. WARNER: The sending of troops to Liberia is a very important consideration. The president has not made the final decision. As you know, with the AIDS program, the president and the Congress signals its strong support for Africa. Indeed, the president is going to visit there soon.
At this point in time, our armed forces could accept that level of deployment. But I must say that in my judgment -- and I've been associated with them for some 30 years -- we are at force levels which are able to carry out the missions, but we must look very prudently when we ask more of them, and particularly their families. It's tough on those families, I assure you.
But we got a fair number of troops saying they were homesick. But on the whole, as our colleagues said, those troops are very proud in what they've done thus far, what they're doing today, and what they're willing to do and take the risk tomorrow.
Yes?
Q Did you get any idea about rotation base and when they might be rotating troops, particularly for the 3rd ID?
SEN. WARNER: WE discussed that, and it is under very active consideration. The 3rd ID now has one of its major elements of regimental size departing, I think this week. The 3rd ID bore the brunt of much of the heavy fighting, as you well know. Two major elements of the 3rd ID remain on post. But they're under active consideration for rotation.
Reserves and Guard -- ladies and gentlemen, I cannot impress upon you and America too strongly the enormous participation by the Reserve and Guard. And they have fixed obligations about their rotation base. So that is being addressed.
You wish to add anything on the rotation base? Fine.
Yes?
Q There's been a lot of talk about the need for a long-term commitment, but do you have even a ballpark estimate how many troops, how many years, what cost we're talking about? And if I may also ask Senator Roberts and Senator Rockefeller --
SEN. WARNER: Excuse me. Thank you, Senator Collins, very much.
SEN. COLLINS: Thank you. (Departs.)
Q -- if you have any better sense about the accuracy of the prewar intelligence after this trip than you did before.
SEN. : All right.
SEN. WARNER: I'm not going to try and affix any timetable. I think, from the very start, the president of the United States, other coalition leaders said we're there to stay, as long as it takes.
Now we've encountered some unanticipated -- and I don't think the wisest of minds could have anticipated the severity of this looting; it's just incomprehensible. I read one classified report. I'll share this much with you. But the people who contributed to that report, drawn up before the war, were the best minds and brains from academia and other places as to what would happen in the aftermath, number one, with the police force; number two, with the army; and they could not reach any conclusion. The police force was really nonexistent in Iraq. The police were his brutal armed forces. The policemen stayed in their stations. The policemen dealt with graft. The policemen -- brutality was their means of justice. And we've got to now replace this in another way that more closely aligns the democratic principles.
And your second part?
Q Both for Senator Roberts and Senator Rockefeller, do you have any sense about -- after the trip, of how the prewar intelligence was, how accurate the prewar intelligence was?
SEN. WARNER: Fine. I think -- and I'll yield to them -- we have followed -- certainly Senator Levin and I and other members of the committee -- this issue of WMD right from the beginning. We've had a number of hearings on it. But I leave, Senator Rockefeller says, with the full expectation that facts will be given publicly, soon, which -- in my judgment, any fair-minded individual will reach the conclusion, one, that Saddam Hussein had a substantial infrastructure to produce weapons of mass destruction; that he very skillfully either disposed or concealed them -- we're beginning to locate those things -- and that there was the potential for Saddam Hussein and his administration to use them and perhaps export them.
Senator Roberts, you want to --
SEN. PAT ROBERTS (R-KS): Okay.
I think the difference between now and then is that then we were relying on what we call signal intelligence and also imagery intelligence. We were trying to do the best we could in regards human intelligence or HUMINT, as it's called.
After the war, or after the major conflict, we're now in a sort of a anti-guerrilla operation. We have volumes of human intelligence. The big challenge is for the intelligence community to vet that, to go through it, to come up with the analytical product. They're doing that on a real-time basis and certainly sharing it with the military. I think they're doing an outstanding job.
As to whether -- I'm not quite sure as to your question as to the intelligence that was predicted, say, before war. Are you talking about the battle plan? Are you talking about WMD? Or we're talking about what?
Q In terms of the accuracy of intelligence about WMD and about the Iraqi links to al Qaeda.
SEN. ROBERTS: Well, basically, we're still going into that on the Intelligence Committee. We have held one hearing. We're going to hold at least three more, probably four or five more. There will be a classified statement made to the Senate, a public statement made to the public, and there will be public hearings.
One of the things we want to check on for sure is the relationship between terrorists, including al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations in Iraq, prior to the war.
And in regards to WMD, I would suggest, again, that we are in a new paradigm. I know that's an overworked word, but we're not finding out, in regards to site inspections -- I know Senator Levin's been very concerned about that, in terms of a number of sites that were inspected and how much information was shared with the U.N. But I think now that where the focus is, is people information and document exploitation. As the military continues, we are finding volumes of documentation, and it takes us time to go through it. That has led us to a couple of what I would call breakthrough pieces of information that I hope in the near future will be very positive news.
And it's a little like if -- let's see if I can, you know, come up with an allegory. If you were looking for --
SEN. WARNER: I think you've done pretty well.
SEN. ROBERTS: -- if you were looking for an M-16, say, weapon here, or let's make it an AK-47, and there was a barrel here, and the trigger assembly here and other parts of the weapon over here; today in Iran and today in North Korea and then in Iraq, it was a modus operandi of deception and denial, and you wouldn't find the full gun or the smoking gun or the shiny object. I know Dr. Kay says you've got to find it out with bits and pieces of the puzzle before you actually put the puzzle together. Now the focus is on people information and document exploitation. That will lead to the final puzzle to prove without a doubt he had the WMD. And the most important thing is, where is it now?
Q Senator Warner --
Q Senator --
(Cross talk.)
SEN. WARNER: Yeah, let's just let Senator Rockefeller --
SEN. ROBERTS: Yeah, let's let Senator Rockefeller --
(Cross talk.)
SEN. JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER (D-WV): Let me just get one slightly similar -- but maybe with one difference. I think part of what we're looking at here is the discovery of WMD. The word "program" has been used, and that's become now a kind of a common word -- in other words, that bits and pieces add up to a whole. And indeed, as people fear, Saddam Hussein less and they come forward more, and if the "Doctor Germs" start talking, as opposed to not talking, we're going to learn a lot more.
And then the other consideration is what was involved in Resolution 1441, in which it was involved -- the community and the president and the Congress and indeed myself, by my own vote in favor of the resolution, made the assumption that there was WMD which was of imminent threat and that therefore the chances that it was weaponized, that it was in the form of missiles or canisters, or that it was readily usable -- that's a somewhat different consideration. And I think our obligation is to look at both of these very, very carefully.
Q Senator Levin --
(Cross talk.)
SEN. WARNER: Senator Dayton asked to be recognized.
SEN. LEVIN: I'd like to just -- I'd like to comment on that issue.
As I've said before, there is troubling evidence of exaggeration and stretching on the part of the intelligence community relative to the presence in Iraq, right before the war, of weapons of mass destruction. That was the immediate reason that was given. And the accuracy and objectivity of that intelligence is under review in a number of places, as it should be. In the Intelligence Committee, we're doing a review on the Democratic side at the Armed Services Committee. There's other reviews going on inside of the Defense Department.
It is a very important issue. Whether we find weapons or we don't find weapons, the allegations -- with certainty -- that there were weapons of mass destruction imminently available and would be used by Saddam Hussein, it was based on intelligence which, it seems to me, there at least is evidence that it was exaggerated. Nothing I saw on this trip changed my view of the troubling nature of that evidence.
There is now a separate kind of a review going on, which is to look at the program that Saddam had, and there's an effort being made to try to understand that program and how current it was and what the status of that program was and what happened to the material which even the U.N. identified as being there in the early '90s and mid- '90s.
But it seems to me those are two separate questions, the availability of weapons of mass destruction by Saddam immediately prior to the war, statements made by the intelligence community -- publicly, by the way, not just by leaders of the administration but by the intelligence community -- relative to the presence of those weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons; and particularly the relationship to al Qaeda, statements relative to that, which, it seems to me, are appropriately the subject of review to see whether they're objective and accurate so that we can in the future rely on our intelligence.
That's the issue. If we're told there's a relationship between Iran and al Qaeda, as there's now stories about, will we have confidence in that kind of a finding if we find out that the relationship between al Qaeda and Iraq was exaggerated? It will weaken our confidence in intelligence in the future, and that has got great dangers, it seems to me, for this nation.
SEN. WARNER: Yes, you can go right ahead.
SEN. DAYTON: I just want to respond to the question of timing and when our troops are coming home. The more successful we are, the faster we'll be able to withdraw U.S. forces.
Militarily, there's not much more that can be accomplished in that country except to hold these resistance forces at abeyance and eradicate them, which they're doing. But until we bring that society forward, economically and in terms of democratic governance, and return that society to some normalcy, the military is going to be pinned down.
So the administration has to understand that if we accomplish as little in 18 months as we have in Afghanistan in terms of the social reconstruction of that country, we're going to be bogged down in Iraq. So I just think that's imperative.
And I think this hunt for the weapons of mass destruction, like the hunt for Red October, is a huge red herring that's distracting resources and personnel in Iraq for what should be underway, which is to win this engagement and, you know, leave for the history books and those who want to look back historically on what happened and what didn't happen. Whatever comes forth, so be it. But to have this kind of intense effort going on while there's so much else that's so much more relevant right now to whether we succeed or fail there, I think, is a real disservice to our fighting men and women who depend on other forces to achieve victory.
Q Senator Warner?
Q Senator --
SEN. WARNER: Let me just -- whoa, whoa, whoa. Just a minute. I'd like to just take a minute here.
The honest differences of views among our respected colleagues on these issues existed before we started on this trip, and we are in the process in our respective committees of resolving those differences in the future.
The only thing I would like to say is that I take a different view than my respected colleague of 25 years here. They shared with us -- Mr. Kay, who was brought in to deal with this; and General Dayton, who has the specific task force, which I think is very important, to pursue these issues -- they shared with us information of the highest classification, which we cannot divulge. But in my judgment, any fair-minded, objective individual upon learning of that information, which I'm sure in the future will be divulged, will clearly come to the conclusion that these weapons did exist, that they were in the hands of those who could use them, and thank God, they weren't used.
Now there's a question over here. Yes, sir?
Q I know Senator Rockefeller addressed the issue of whether or not -- expressed the view that there is organized resistance that may be growing. Do you agree with that? And if so, how much of a threat does that pose to the American force? And Senator Roberts, I'd like to get your -- (inaudible) -- that as well.
SEN. WARNER: Fine. Now, we repeatedly asked those in position to make decisions on this and to have judgments, the various commanders, right on down to the soldiers themselves, as to the level of cohesiveness and organization among the individuals who are perpetrating these attacks. My impression was that we have not established that there's any real widespread organizational structure; it's more down to the various locations where some people with a little money who are still loyal to Saddam Hussein will go out and hire the impoverished, out-of-work individual who cannot feed himself or his family, hand him the cash and the weaponry and say "Go do it."
Now, proof of that is -- in the professional military is how unskillfully these attacks are being perpetrated. I mean, the weapons are fired wide of the mark, missing, in many instances -- thank God. But it's not by skilled professionals, or skilled training in most instances. Now, that's my view on it. And we're doing everything we can to root them out, whether they're skilled or unskilled.
Now, you asked for another -- yes.
SEN. ROBERTS: Look at who is doing the attacking. It's a very disparate group. You've got 100,000 criminals that were let loose. Any city or any state in the country that had 100,000, say, criminals let loose from the prison, you would have a problem here in America. You've got the Fedayeen. You've got the Sunni extremists. You've got the Ba'ath Party loyalists. You have some terrorists from other countries. As a matter of fact, in regards to Operation Scorpion, that was aimed at that particular threat. And that -- and, by the way, that operation was very successful. Very young jihadists from other countries who came in -- say, they're 17, 18 or 19 years old -- they did not fully realize what they were, you know, getting into. That word is now getting back.
So I don't think in the judgment of the intelligence community and the military that this is a really fine-tuned organization by any means. It's very loose-knit. But the word is, it could come to that if, in fact, we don't make progress in the next, what 100 days to six months. So while it's not organized now, it is still -- it is still a real problem. And I would emphasize again that we are not sitting ducks, we are taking the fight to those disparate groups.
SEN. WARNER: Senator Reed.
SEN. REED: Well, the sense I have is that they are starting off at a very, very low level organization. But there's some signs that they are being better organized --
SEN. WARNER: They're learning.
SEN. REED: -- and they're learning. And that's discouraging to us to find that out. And there are basically three groups. There are the former Army, former Ba'athists. There are Islamic fundamentalists. And then there's just criminal elements. One fear is that these three groups will somehow find common cause against us. And that would be a significant problem. And perhaps the greatest problem, though, that at some point -- and again, if we don't get the economy moving and start the social progress that we all think is so imperative, that these cells could tap into general unhappiness of the Iraqi people. And that would be a major obstacle to our progress in Iraq.
As the chairman said, a lot of the incidents, particularly up north, are situations where, from a military standpoint, they're completely ineffectual: firing RPGs at safe houses, barely hitting them, if at all, and then running away immediately. But there are other instances, particularly in the central area, where there's a much more -- high level of sophistication.
Again, it comes down to a race against time. We have to go in and preempt these emerging cells, disrupt their communication, and arrest the individuals. If we don't, then they'll get more sophisticated, they'll get better coordinated, and we'll have a much more difficult challenge.
SEN. WARNER: Wouldn't you say that the briefing we got at the 4th ID about those three operations, the magnitude of them fit the exact description of what you say we've got to do?
SEN. REED: In the 4th ID they conducted three operations, combination air-ground operations with Special Forces. They isolated an area, went in and seized individuals who were actively plotting, seized caches of RPGs. Yes, they're doing that. And they continue to do that. But the real problem, I think, is our ability to move with intelligence in the central area of Baghdad, Fallujah, and towns immediately south of Baghdad. That's a much more contested area for our movement. And that's, frankly, where you see most of the effective attacks.
SEN. WARNER: Just a thought about Saddam Hussein. It's an important issue, and my colleagues have shared their views with you. But this guy's not 10 feet tall anymore. This guy is not, to the best of all those who have facts, trying to coordinate any of these attacks. This guy is slinking around, each day hiding and running, some say in a crude disguise, some say manifesting the effects of having been wounded. We'll get him. But the specter of his past brutality does hang over this entire operation and does, to some extent, impede the progress by which other civilian Iraqis would feel free to come ahead. But believe me, he's not 10 feet tall, he's damned near 10 feet in the ground.
Yes.
Q Sir, I need to go back to the WMD question. There seems to be a subtle shifting here that now it's not the emphasis on product, but programs. I want to take you back to February 12th when U.S. CIA Director Tenet: will there be clearly found, in his professional judgment, catches (sic) of weapons of mass destruction to establish beyond a reasonable doubt that he had them? He has -- Tenet replied in the affirmative. You used that assurance to tell anybody who cared to listen that we would find catches (sic) of product. What happened since that February testimony? Because that hasn't happened.
SEN. WARNER: I did ask that question. Secretary Tenet and others -- I asked that question just about to everybody, because, together with my colleagues, I had concerns on this issue. But many of my concerns were allayed as a consequence of this trip and what has been shared with me and what I hope will eventually be made public.
But you're right; we did anticipate first that they would be used against. Thank the dear Lord it was not. That we would anticipate -- find artillery shells to caches of other weapons, perhaps some missilery and so forth. We haven't found it. So with that, I have to tell you, those anticipations by, I think, all of us who are well- informed did not come to pass. But the fundamental possession of the weapons, his intention to use them certainly has been documented historically, where Saddam Hussein used them against his own people, people in Iran and others, the Kurds in the North.
So I think we had to do exactly what we have done. But did we come on to this caches and hidden -- immediately? No. The answer is no.
Q Why -- I mean, that's the key --
SEN. LEVIN: Could I add one thing?
SEN. WARNER: Yeah.
SEN. LEVIN: I want to commend Senator Warner. Senator Warner, as chairman of our committee, asked the question which you just quoted, on a number of occasions. He received the answer, which you quoted, that there was that confidence that they would find weapons of mass destruction. And I think just about all of us believe -- whatever our position was on the wisdom of proceeding without greater international authority at that time or not, I think all of us reached the conclusion that he had weapons of mass destruction. And Senator Warner is not alone in reaching that conclusion. I think, again, that was a fairly common conclusion, based on the intelligence that we had.
And that's why it is important, not for the past, but for the future, to see if we can't learn some lessons from the way in which that intelligence was analyzed and the way it was presented. But Senator Warner was not alone in believing that there are weapons of mass destruction there. I think just about every member of Congress and most of the American people believe that there were actually weapons, and that was based on the intelligence that was provided to us and in statements of the intelligence community that were provided to us.
SEN. WARNER: Senator Roberts?
SEN. ROBERTS: Well, sometimes I wonder if people -- some of the critics might not have even preferred that -- you know, that he use the weapons of mass destruction. I mean, the way some of the questions are being phrased -- I don't mean you, Carl, by any means.
We are into what I called a new paradigm of understanding exactly what he did. And that is, you have the delivery means here, you have the product here, you have the weaponized system here, and you reconstitute it, and you use it. It's the same kind of paradigm now being used by Iran and also North Korea.
If in fact that this is successful, if we -- if we beat ourselves around the head and shoulders with the intelligence community and saying that we are not precisely accurate in terms of the prediction, that's going to give encouragement to Iran and North Korea to continue the same kind of thing.
Let me say that I'm not an apologist, by any means, of the intelligence community, but I do certainly champion their mission. And I disagree with Carl in regards to -- I know some of the statements made in public would lead you to believe that we would actually find that piece of weapons of mass destruction.
I even said that, you know, some people expected it to be Slim Pickens sitting on a rocket and waving his cowboy hat. That isn't going to happen. Because of the denial and deception that has been practiced for four years, it doesn't happen that way. You have various pieces hidden all over this country.
The only way you're going to find it is not by site selection and site inspection, it's been looted; again, it's by exploitation of documents, which is ongoing. It's very aggressive. And we're just now getting those documents. If there was no WMD, why on Earth every second foggy night did we find evidence of the defensive gear on the part of the Iraqis, plus all of the injection needles and everything else because they expected that they would use it? One of the things that really interceded in that respect was the quickness and the way the battle plan actually played out; they didn't have time to do it. That doesn't mean that they couldn't have done it in regards to reconstituting.
By the way, Dr. Kay thinks that the mobile labs are mobile labs in regards to WMD as opposed to either hydrogen -- there was one even -- somebody even said they were using it for yeast and it was a beer wagon. I mean, now, you know, get real. And so I think there's going to be some positive breaking news in the near future, along with Senator Warner and the rest of us who listened to Dr. Kay. I'd like to get Dr. Kay back here on, you know, "Meet the Press" and other public TV shows to fully explain exactly how this works: that you don't find the full puzzle; you find the pieces of the puzzle, you put it together, you figure out could they have put it together and reconstituted and used it on an immediate basis.
There's one other thing. And I hate to go on like this, but I feel compelled to do so. Prior to 9/11, if you had a situation where you received from our collection assets a warning product or a threat analysis and you said that there were 10 dots out there and you connected three, you had to connect all nine or 10 before that actually became a warning product or actually information you would share with the military. After 9/11, if you connect two or three, you better get that out there. It's called not being risk averse. Today, if you connect two or three and it isn't absolutely confirmed, we're in a situation where the intelligence community gets beaten up around the head and shoulders, and I don't think that's fair. They can't respond.
Any question that you ask of the intelligence community, they simply can't respond. It's up to me and Senator Rockefeller and others here, Senator Levin, Senator Warner, to take a hard look at this, let the chips fall where they may because -- Senator Levin is right -- we have to depend on that intelligence for the future. My conclusion is not the same as that of Senator Levin.
Q Senator Collins --
SEN. REED: Let me just make very quick points. First, it appears that there were no deployed weapons of mass destruction with Iraqi military forces.
Q (Off mike) -- appear?
SEN. REED: It appears there were no deployed weapons of mass destruction with Iraqi forces. Second, it does not appear that there were any significant concentration of weapons of mass destruction in depots or other places, which likely would have been discovered by our forces, since they occupy freely the entire country now, and second based upon battlefield interrogation of individuals who would have at least minimal knowledge of where these military depots were.
And I think the present shift from looking at sites to interrogating people and reviewing documents suggests to me that we're not likely to find significant concentrations of weapons of mass destruction.
And it has shifted to the notion of was there a program? Was there research activities? Were there development activities? And that raises significant questions which have not been resolved: how quickly could this program go from a research basis to a production basis and then a weaponization basis? Those are all fair questions, but they have not been answered yet. But I do think there is an increasing shift away from the notion that we're going to find large caches of weapons of mass destruction to one that we might discover a program.
SEN. WARNER: We're going to wind up now, but do bear in mind that, particularly in the biological area, very small physical quantities -- a couple of gallons -- can literally obliterate tens of thousands of people, and that they're skillfully hidden. How --
Really, we want to share with you some of this material, but the Intelligence Committee can't do it because they're gaining it through human intelligence. And those people coming in today and tomorrow in ever-increasing numbers are still fearful of the specter of Saddam Hussein.
Remember, under his regime you were killed as an individual, and your family was also killed, if you broke any of his rules or edicts. He's no longer effective. But the specter still hangs. And it is an impediment to collection. So we cannot, as a nation, as a coalition of nations working in this thing, share all that information now, because it'll impede the progress of collecting.
Ladies and gentlemen, I --
SEN. LEVIN: Can I add one quick comment, John?
Q Senator Warner --
SEN. WARNER: Yeah.
SEN. LEVIN: I just want to thank -- Senator Warner's right that we really have to leave now, but I just want to add one thank-you to Senator Warner. He really organized a trip which focused on the conditions that we meet now and what the future requires of us as a nation. And on that, we were in agreement, I think total agreement, all nine of us, that we must retain the willpower and commit the resources to finish this job. It's important for us as a nation, it's important to our future as a world, that we be committed to putting Iraq in a position where their people can finally be not only free, but have a civilized society.
A tyrant of unimaginable description has been overthrown and destroyed. The Iraqi people are better for it, we are better for it, and every one of us in this delegation, seeing what we did together as one, are committed to both maintaining the willpower to do the job, supporting our troops, getting support from others for this cause because of the immense importance of it to the world that this succeed. And we are totally unified in that -- in that assessment of where we stand now. And obviously, there are some disagreements as to the past. That's a different issue which we will look at in a different place in a different time. That is to the presence -- the present and the future we are totally united.
Q Senator Warner --
SEN. WARNER: Thank you very much, Senator Levin. You are -- just you are a good, wonderful co-partner.
We had three chairmen and two ranking members on this codel. My closing words are, those troops are hanging in, and I fervently pray and urge America to hang in with them.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Carl.
