Public Statements
Dayton Reluctantly Votes for Senate Prescription Drug Bill
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 27, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Senator Calls Plan Inadequate, But Better Than Nothing
WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Mark Dayton today released the following statement regarding the Senate Medicare and prescription drug bill, which the Senate passed at 12:45 a.m. EST.
"With great disappointment, I voted for the Senate's prescription drug bill. During the past two years, I have said repeatedly that I would support any responsible program as better than nothing. The Senate bill is better than nothing, but it is less than responsible. It has three major flaws.
"First, the full program will not begin until January 1, 2006, almost 2 ½ years from now. Until then, most seniors will receive nothing but a drug discount card. What a cruel hoax for seniors who have waited years for this legislation, and who expect it to provide them with immediate and substantial financial assistance. I introduced an amendment to move the starting date ahead by two years, to January 1, 2004. Unfortunately, a majority of Senators voted against an accelerated timetable.
"The bill's second major flaw is that when its coverage finally becomes effective, it will be inadequate. Seniors will have to pay a $35 monthly premium and an annual $275 deductible. They will pay 50 percent of their unreimbursed prescription drug expenses up to $4,500, and the program will pay the other 50 percent. However, seniors must pay all of their drug costs exceeding $4,500 up to $5,800. The program would pay 90 percent of all costs above $5,800 in that year.
"The bill's third flaw is that the federal government is prohibited from negotiating lower drug prices. Pharmaceutical companies will continue to increase their exorbitant prices, make more excessive profits, and give big political contributions to their friends in Congress.
"Several colleagues and I offered an alternative prescription drug plan which provided far better coverage for most seniors. Our plan had no deductible. It paid 70 percent of the first $5,000 of unreimbursed drug costs and 90 percent of all additional expenses during that year.
"Our bill instructed Medicare's administrators to negotiate big reductions, or 'discounts,' in the prices of their beneficiaries' prescription drugs. This is the drug companies worst nightmare. Unfortunately, their friends in the Senate rejected our efforts.
"Two of my amendments were added to the bill. The Senate voted 93-3 in favor of my 'A Taste of Our Own Medicine' amendment. It limits prescription drug coverage for Members of Congress to whatever we pass for Medicare recipients. If seniors get only discount cards for the next 2 ½ years, so do we. I would much prefer that my colleagues improve the coverage for seniors rather than lower their own; but either way, we get no more than what we vote for.
"The Senate also adopted my 'Bureaucracy Buster' amendment, which attacks the plague of endless paperwork, multiple reporting requirements, and excessive regulatory verbiage afflicting our society. All of Medicare's instructions and regulations fill over 110,000 pages! That is three times more than all of the Internal Revenue Service's tax codes and regulations.
"My amendment requires a two-thirds reduction in all Medicare regulatory verbiage by October 1, 2004. It would eliminate over 73,000 pages of the least important, most redundant, and excessively worded bureaucratic blather. I firmly believe that everything necessary to run Medicare properly can be squeezed into 37,000 pages.
"If, however, the Secretary of Health and Human Services concludes that a two-thirds reduction would be disastrous, he can notify Congress in writing of the reasons for his decision and establish a modified reduction target."
