Public Statements
Dayton Offers Three Amendments to Improve Prescription Drugs Bill
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 24, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Says Current Plan Provides Minnesota Seniors with Too Little Financial Help
WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Mark Dayton today introduced three amendments to the prescription drugs legislation currently working its way through Congress. His amendments aim to improve drug coverage for seniors, speed up the bill's implementation date, and simplify the paperwork associated with the nation's Medicare regulations.
Dayton, who has long pushed to make prescription drugs more affordable, offered the following statement:
"Today, I am offering several amendments to improve some of the prescription drug bill's worst deficiencies. Though I intend to support it because something is better than nothing, unfortunately this legislation will provide many of Minnesota's elderly with much less financial help than they need.
"My first amendment requires the entire program to be operating by January 1, 2004, two years ahead of the current schedule. Seniors who have been made destitute and desperate by having to pay for essential, yet unaffordable, prescription drugs should not be forced to wait any longer than they already have for this plan to take effect.
"Another of my amendments reduces the prescription drug coverage which Members of Congress receive to no more than what we enacted for Medicare beneficiaries. If the plan that passes is good enough for our seniors, it should be good enough for those who approved it.
"My third amendment would force the federal government to reduce the thousands of pages of Medicare rules and regulations by two-thirds by October 1, 2004. As it stands now, the program is far too complicated and burdensome. This amendment would streamline and simplify Medicare regulations, increasing the program's overall efficiency and effectiveness.
"I have also worked with a group of Senators to design an alternative program, which would provide senior citizens with prescription drug coverage equal to what federal employees, including Members of Congress, can buy. Our plan would charge a $35 monthly premium, like the current plan in the Senate, but there would be no deductible. The program would pay for 70 percent of seniors' unreimbursed prescription drug expenditures, up to $5,800 per year. Thereafter, our plan would pay 90 percent of any additional costs."
