Public Statements
Governor Dayton Urges Legislators to Compromise, Agree to Investments in Higher Education, Job Creation, and Public Safety
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 8, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today visited Rochester Community and Technical College (RCTC) and South Central College in North Mankato, urging legislators to compromise on terms for a Special Session. Since June 1st, Governor Dayton has been calling on legislative leaders to agree to needed investments in higher education, job creation, and public safety before he will call a Special Session. As of now, House Speaker Kurt Daudt, Senate Minority Leader David Hann, and their respective Caucuses have been resistant to making those urgently-needed investments.

"It is time now for the Legislature to come back to St. Paul and finish their work," said Governor Dayton. "Minnesotans deserve better college classrooms, clean water infrastructure, tax cuts for 650,000 people, and thousands of jobs from comprehensive bonding and transportation bills."

"I have offered to meet the House Republicans halfway between their positions and mine, so that we can reach agreement for the good of all Minnesotans."

After carefully reviewing each of the bills passed during the final hours of the 2016 Legislative Session, Governor Dayton signed into law new investments in prekindergarten education, broadband expansion, economic equity, and more. However, after discovering a $101 million error in the Tax Bill, Governor Dayton issued this letter to legislative leaders, outlining his compromise conditions, urging them to correct the Tax Bill and agree to essential investments in education, job creation, and public safety that were neglected during the Regular Session.

As of yet, Republican legislators have not agreed to those eminently reasonable requirements, leaving in doubt: tax cuts for 650,000 Minnesotans; essential investments in higher education and clean water infrastructure; and needed funding for initiatives that will assure the public's safety.

Source:
