Public Statements
Prescription Drug and Medicare Improvement Act of 2003 - Continued
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 24, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

PRESCRIPTION DRUG AND MEDICARE IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2003—CONTINUED
AMENDMENT NO. 982
    Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I join with my Senator from New Jersey. He persuaded me to be reasonable. This is the reasonable alternative proposal, July 1 of 2004. I have great respect for the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, the Senator from Iowa. I sense his difficulty because I don't believe the senior citizens of anywhere else in America will be any different from the senior citizens of Minnesota who will be, I believe, absolutely beside themselves to learn this program they have waited years for Congress to enact will be enacted but it will not be ready for 2½ years.
    I suggest perhaps one of the reasons is that this is not a system that can be easily put in place or administered. The chairman is trying to accommodate, if I understand his remarks correctly, the administration, the Office of Management and Budget, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. They said this program as designed cannot be put together and administered and operational until January 1, 2006.
    I suggest that is pretty strong evidence that is not a very good system for delivery of these services. We have insurance companies that are going to be providing policies—they are in the business of providing insurance for people. It can't take them 2½ years to design this program. Regarding CMS or HHS, the Department itself, we hear from this administration how their management of Government is so much improved over their predecessor's. Is it going to take them 2½ years to design this program when, as my colleague from New Jersey, Senator Lautenberg, pointed out, 40 years ago they were able to take the whole Medicare Program and put that in effect in 11 months?
    Not only do I support the amendment offered by Senator Lautenberg, but I have to say for those who are advocating this as the preferred alternative to extending Medicare to cover prescription drugs, if they cannot get the program up and running in a lot less than 2½ years—either 6 months as I would propose, or a year—then this is the wrong program because this is not a viable alternative, and it is not viable for the senior citizens of Minnesota or anywhere else, in my judgment.
    To say people are going to get a discount card—they can get discount cards already. They don't need Congress to do anything more than that for 2½ years.
    Just taking the figure the Senator from Iowa offered, if I understand it correctly, of savings for seniors in America, Medicare beneficiaries, of $1.26 billion the first year, it sounds like a lot of money—it is a lot of money—but there are 40 million Medicare beneficiaries in the country. If you divide $1.26 billion in savings by those 40 million, that is about $30 per Medicare beneficiary in the first year.
    We are going to go back with this to the senior citizens of Minnesota, and those with disabilities who are being crushed by these prices, who see them going up all the time due to the greed and profiteering of the pharmaceutical industry. We are told here we have a bill, because it is the only one the majority of the Senate will agree to, that is not going to do anything—nothing at all, under our Government, on behalf of seniors and on behalf of all American consumers of prescription drugs, to bring these prices down. Instead, they are going to get a discount card that is going to save them on average $30 a year? We ought to be ashamed of ourselves, first of all. This bill is not what it is purporting to be, which is real relief for anybody who needs it now, not January 1, 2006.
    If my colleagues do not support this, I think we are sending a very strong message to America that this is not a viable program to begin with, and the pharmaceutical industry has, one more time, succeeded in putting their profits ahead of the needs of people in America.
    I yield the floor.
AMENDMENT NO. 957
    Mr. DAYTON. Thank you, Mr. President. I will proceed.
    Mr. President, this amendment is a matter of simple fairness. It says that whatever prescription drug coverage we in Congress vote for for senior citizens and other Medicare beneficiaries in this legislation, then the Members of Congress will get for ourselves, our coverage, under prescription drugs for the life of this particular legislation.
    I have heard many of my colleagues say we want to give seniors coverage that is as good as we get ourselves. I heard a lot of senior citizens in Minnesota say they want coverage as good as Members of Congress get for themselves. Well, unfortunately, the bill that is before us this week is not even close to that parity.
    If you calculate the total benefits provided, the value of this bill is about half of what Members of Congress get, what we pay as part of the Federal Employees Health Benefits Plan system. But, nevertheless, it is about twice as good as what the seniors of America and those with disabilities and others are going to be able to obtain from what we are likely to pass.
    Furthermore, as we have been discussing earlier, this does not even begin until January of 2006. Medicare beneficiaries will get a discount card instead. Well, then, Members of Congress should get a discount card—and nothing more—as well. I think after what I heard the Senator from Iowa say, I would include a few members of the administration since they are the culprits in this delay, but I will save that for another time. With the premiums, deductibles, and the absence of any coverage at all from $4,500 to $5,800, if it is good enough for the seniors of America, then it is good enough for the Members of Congress.
    I point out to my colleagues who would like to keep the benefit level they have today——
    The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator has used 2 minutes.
    Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 30 seconds to conclude my remarks.
    The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
    Without objection, it is so ordered.
    Mr. DAYTON. The amendment Senator Durbin has offered, which we will have a chance to vote on and discuss later this week, would provide seniors with a comparable package to what we have in Congress. So I urge the support of that amendment, for that reason among many others. But if we are not going to be as generous to senior citizens as we are to ourselves today, then we are going to have to, in my view, bring ourselves down. I would rather bring everyone else up, but what is fair for them is fair for us.
    I thank the Chair. I yield the floor.
