Public Statements
Prescription Drug and Medicare Improvement Act of 2003
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 23, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

PRESCRIPTION DRUG AND MEDICARE IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2003
AMENDMENT NO. 957
AMENDMENT NO. 960
AMENDMENT NO. 977
    Mr. DAYTON. I thank my colleagues for the opportunity to discuss these three amendments this evening. They will be voted on later this week, and we will be calling them up for that purpose at that time.
    During my campaign for the Senate in 2000, I promised a good prescription drug coverage program for senior citizens would be one of my very first priorities. In December of 2000, after my election but just before I took office, I went up to Duluth, MN, up in the northeastern part of our State, and met with a group of senior citizens. At the end of the meeting, an elderly woman, who was about half my size and twice my age, stood up and said: Mr. Dayton, if you do not keep your promises, I am going to take you out behind the woodshed for an old-fashioned thrashing.
    It has been then with some trepidation that I have visited Duluth in the months that followed, and it is not just Duluth. Everywhere in Minnesota our elderly citizens, and actually all of our other Medicare beneficiaries who stand to benefit from this legislation, have been waiting. They have been waiting patiently and they have been waiting impatiently for the Senate, the House, and the White House to reach an agreement on a bill, pass it, and then have the President sign it into law.
    During the last several years, our seniors have watched the Senate pass a bill but not the House; the House act but not the Senate; both bodies fail to pass anything; both the House and the Senate pass a bill yet be unable to agree on one and nothing passed. Meanwhile, every year that Congress and the President did nothing, our senior citizens paid the price, and then they paid another price and then another.
    Prescription drug prices have risen higher and higher in this country while nothing was being done to help. The financial burdens then fell harder on people with limited and fixed incomes. People who worked hard all of their lives, saved up a bit, retired, and did not have many other earning opportunities, were literally destroyed by the rapid escalation of prescription drug medicine, medicines they cannot afford not to have, medicines they cannot afford to have.
    People's peace of mind was shattered. Hopes and plans had to be abandoned, ones that had been months and years in the making. Even modest comforts and simple enjoyments had to be sacrificed to pay this ravaging beast of the pharmaceutical industry that wanted more profits out of pockets, out of the sweat and blood of senior citizens and other Americans.
    The financial security and the protections from destitution and despair, which Social Security and Medicare have provided our elderly for several decades and which was one of the great accomplishments of this society, was being rapidly eradicated by drug companies' greed and Congress's and the administration's inaction.
    I thought on the day when we finally acted and passed a prescription drug coverage bill for senior citizens and other beneficiaries it would be cause for real celebration and satisfaction, and I could go back to Duluth. Well, it appears that this Friday may very well be that day where we will pass in the Senate prescription drug legislation, but the way it looks now I will not be celebrating the passage of the bill that is before us right now.
    It is usually true that something is better than nothing, and the bill that is before us now is barely enough of something to be better than nothing. I will probably vote for it for that reason, but I will not be celebrating because there is not enough in this bill to be worthy of celebration. For starters, it does not even begin until January 1 of the year 2006. It is unbelievable there would be a 2½ year delay from the time this bill is signed into law before it is operational.
    To let that stand is a violation of the Constitution which prohibits cruel and unusual punishment for American citizens. It is cruel and unusual punishment for the senior citizens of Minnesota and their counterparts of this country who have waited this long, year after year, waiting for this legislation, bills mounting. Finally something is passed and they are told they have to wait another 2½ years for the Federal Government and the insurance industry to set up this program. Shame on us if we do not move the development of this program from the sleepwalking mode into overdrive.
    Proponents of this bill say the approach using subsidized insurance plans to provide this coverage is one of the advantages—they have postulated in the Senate and committee—because it is more efficient. The insurance companies are in the business of designing and selling insurance policies. How could they need 2½ years to develop this? If they do, it seems to me that is a very compelling reason to look for a different delivery system. Some believe that would be good for other reasons, as well.
    My first amendment is named the bureaucracy booster to require whatever program we pass and whatever the President signs into law to be fully operational by January 1 of 2004, 2 years earlier than the President's schedule calls for. It would be 6 months after we pass our bill later this week. It took 6 months for our armed services to assemble their forces and prepare for the war against Iraq. They were ready to go when General Franks gave his order. If this country can get ready to win a war in 6 months—and actually the war against the Taliban in Afghanistan was assembled in about 6 weeks—it certainly can start to save our senior citizens in that same amount of time.
    I am also troubled by the quality of the program which will hopefully be available to everyone on Medicare, if my amendment passes, next January 1. The coverage in the bill before the Senate is not very good. I don't fault the leaders of this bill who took it through the committee process. It was a very difficult task, with Members from all over the country. They were constrained by the budget this body passed earlier this year. You can slice and dice the programs and the delivery and the structuring but the bottom line is you will get what you pay for. Maybe it is better one way or the other but the bottom line is you get what you pay for. The Finance Committee had $400 billion over 10 years and they did the best they could, but the fact is that is not enough to provide the kind of coverage the senior citizens of this country have a right to expect. It provides only half the coverage we Members of the Senate and our colleagues in the House get through the Federal employees plan.
    The bill before the Senate requires a $35 a month premium and a $275 deductible, so an enrollee pays $695 each year before receiving a single dollar of assistance. From that point, for all of his or her nonreimbursement prescription drugs above the $275 deductible, up to $4,500 in 1 year, the program would pay half. At that point, incredibly, the program pays nothing then for drug costs that exceed $4,500 for one person in one year, all the way up to $5,800. I understand that was done for the purpose of fitting within this budget cap. But it seems unfair to have a 50 percent program up to one point, then have the program disappear entirely for $1,300 of expenditures, but come back after $5,800, for the balance of the year, when the program pays 90 percent. The next year it starts all over again. For the first $5,800 in annual prescription drug costs out-of-pocket payments, nonreimbursed, a senior citizen of Minnesota or America has to pay $3,688 plus they have to pay $4,200 in monthly premiums. So the total payment for the senior citizen is $4,108 and the program will pay $2,012. The senior pays almost twice as much as the program assistance. So hundreds and thousands of dollars of expenses will be paid by a very limited and fixed-income senior citizen.
    It is not a good deal. It is not what we ought to be providing for our seniors. It is not as generous as the alternative bill which our colleague, the Senator from Illinois, Senator Durbin, has offered as an alternative amendment which I am proud to work on and cosponsor. That is the kind of program I would want my mother or father to be on. It is as good a program as members of the Senate have. It would have no deductible and pay for 70 percent of the costs from the very first $1 owed up until $5,000 and 90 percent above that. That is a much better administrative feature.
    What the pharmaceutical industry wants to the death to oppose is the Federal Government CMS, the Medicare administrators getting involved in negotiating down the prices. They have free and clear now, unlike virtually any other country in the world, ability to just raise prices for prescription drugs and raise them and raise them. They are making huge profits. Most of their worldwide profits are made in the United States of America not only with our seniors but all citizens because this body and the House and White House will not stand up and do something about it. Senator Durbin's amendment would do something. I expect the pharmaceutical industry to oppose it to the death.
    I have a second amendment which I call the taste of our own medicine amendment which says if the program we pass for Medicare beneficiaries is less advantageous than the one we receive under the Federal employees health plan, the coverage for all Members of Congress, the Senate and the House, will be reduced to the same level as the coverage provided for senior citizens and others under Medicare. If it is good enough for the seniors of America, it is as good as we should do for ourselves.
    My third amendment is what I call my bureaucracy buster. Earlier I had bureaucracy booster to get the program operating early. This applies to all of Medicare. It would apply, I am told by the CEO of Mayo Clinic, to 130,000 pages of rules and regulations that make up the governance of Medicare. I was going to bring 130,000 pages over here as a graphic illustration, but it is a violation of Senate rules for decency and decorum. If anyone ever saw 130,000 pages piled up, they would agree. It is bigger than all the Harry Potter books, a lot bigger than anyone involved in Medicare had a chance to look at either to apply to their hospital or clinic or to enforce, and it is one piece of this epidemic of verbiage, duplicative regulation, multiple reporting requirements we have placed on doctors, hospitals, administrators, special education teachers, school superintendents, small business, large business, this plague of ever more and more and more regulations, more complicated, more lengthy, more time consuming. We are burying our society, burying our economy, burying our delivery systems to other people and we have to start turning that around.
    This amendment requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to come back to Congress by October 1 of 2004 with a revision to the Medicare regulations and rules that amounts to two-thirds of all the words that are now being used for those purposes. It would be a two-thirds reduction in the amount of regulation and reporting. That means we have to squeeze everything down into 45,000 pages. It will just have to be done.
    If my colleagues will join me in agreeing to this amendment, once it has proven to be a viable idea, it is something I would like to apply to other regulatory and reporting mechanisms in the Federal Government as well.
    I yield the floor.
