Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account: Ethanol
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 6, 2003
Location: Unknown

Your Dayton's Account:
Ethanol
After several hours of debate over three days, the Senate recently voted to add an "Ethanol Mandate" to the 2003 Energy Bill. It will require that five billion gallons of ethanol be used for transportation fuel in the United States by the year 2012. Five billion gallons is a lot of ethanol; however, it would comprise only 3 percent of motor vehicle fuels nationwide ten years from now. 2012 will be 15 years after Minnesota adopted a 10 percent ethanol requirement for every gallon of gasoline sold in our state. That mandate was controversial at the time it was enacted. Now, most Minnesotans are unaware or unconcerned that ethanol comprises 10 percent of every gallon of gasoline they buy.
Earlier predictions of disastrous consequences proved unfounded. There have been reliable supplies of ethanol at prices often lower than for regular unleaded gasoline. Ethanol does not damage modern automobile engines; under most conditions, it burns cleaner than gasoline without ethanol.
Some of the expected benefits from the 10 percent ethanol mandate have been realized. By the basic economic law of supply and demand, the increased domestic demand for corn has increased its market price, particularly in areas close to operating ethanol plants. The "value added" by processing corn in local plants has provided jobs and additional income, some of it to local corn-producing farmers. Higher commodity prices reduce the need for taxpayer subsidies. Farmers' increased incomes are often spent locally, and every business on every Main Street in Greater Minnesota knows that a healthy agriculture economy is essential to their own financial well-being.
Of course, not every venture turns out well. Ethanol plants are major industrial operations, which require sizeable start-up capital, realistic business plans, and sufficient operating capital to execute them. If initial projections are inaccurate, or if unexpected costs exceed operating reserves, the results can be disastrous. Financially hard-pressed farmers/investors can be propelled into bankruptcies. However, as the industry grows and matures, successful operations will acquire more resources and experience; and they should become even more resilient and self-reliant.
