Public Statements
Your Dayton's Accout - It Is Time to Ban Asbestos
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 23, 2003
Location: Unknown

Your Dayton's Account
It Is Time to Ban Asbestos
If you live or work in one of the estimated 35 million American homes and businesses which are insulated with vermiculite attic insulation, you should exercise extreme caution. The Environmental Protection Agency and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health issued a warning on May 21st that some vermiculite attic insulation contains a high proportion of deadly asbestos fibers.
Much of the suspect insulation was marketed under the brand name Zonolite Attic Insulation, produced by W.R. Grace & Company. Although the company stopped making Zonolite some 19 years ago, EPA officials say that it was sold into the 1990s. Since two of the production plants were in Minneapolis, officials believe there is a greater likelihood that the product has been installed in the attics of Minnesota homes and businesses.
If so, the two federal agencies have the same emphatic message: "Do not disturb." Agency officials said that there is "no cause for panic or needless anxiety." However, people who know or believe that their attics contain this insulation should make certain that it is sealed off from living areas, that children are not allowed to play near it, and that everyone's time in those attics be limited. Any repairs to exposed insulation should be handled by an expert.
The history of this product and the delay in EPA's issuing this recent warning are shameful failures of government oversight and protection. Documents recently released under the Freedom of Information Act reportedly show that in April, 2002, the White House Office of Management and Budget stopped the Environmental Protection Agency from issuing a public health emergency warning about Zonolite. It took another 13 months before EPA made the warning public. Whether coincidental or not, on that same day EPA Administrator Christie Todd Whitman announced her resignation.
It gets even worse. Documentation also shows that some EPA officials in Washington knew about this dangerous product decades ago. However, they did not inform the agency staff in the Denver Regional Office, which has jurisdiction over Montana where vermiculite was extracted. Despite the continuing denials of Grace & Company executives that they knew about their product's danger, an internal memo in 1977 stated, "We believe that a decision to affix asbestos warning labels to our products would result in substantial sales losses." For company officers to view their profits as more important than the lives of their customers is immoral and criminal.
Last year, I cosponsored legislation, with Senator Patty Murray, which would ban asbestos products from being sold in the United States. That legislation was not acted upon, so Senator Murray and I have reintroduced it this year. We received welcomed support from the recent report of a blue-ribbon panel funded by the Environmental Protection Agency, which recommended that Congress ban the import, production, and distribution of products containing asbestos. Some 30 million pounds of those lethal fibers are still being imported into our country every year, and they are incorporated into products being sold to often-unsuspecting Americans. Patty and I will press hard for the Senate to consider this legislation in the very near future.
We may have our chance, when the Senate considers legislation affecting the more than 600,000 Americans who have filed legal claims against W.R. Grace and others, alleging their products caused debilitating and life-ending diseases, like mesothelioma. This disease killed former Congressman Bruce Vento, who himself worked during college in a plant which, unbeknownst to him, regularly exposed him to asbestos.
The companies being sued and their insurers want Congress to pass a law that will cap their total liability at, say, $250 billion or $265 billion. In return, the companies and insurers will permit the expedited processing of the enormous number of lawsuits, before the poor victims have perished.
What could be more convincing evidence for banning asbestos products than the horrific experiences of over 600,000 Americans who have suffered from asbestos exposures? Their pain and their families' grief should have caused Congress to enact such a ban years ago. Tragically, it appears that pressures from the companies which profit from the manufacture and sales of asbestos products outweighed the lives of many thousands of Americans. That should never be allowed to happen in America.
If you would like a free copy of EPA's instructional brochure about vermiculite insulation, please call my Fort Snelling Office at (612) 727-5220; or toll free at (888) 224-9043.
