Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account - Tax Cut Proposals
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 12, 2003
Location: Unknown

Your Dayton's Account
Tax Cut Proposals
Upcoming tax cut legislation is one of the most important bills we will debate and pass this year. We must decide which federal taxes will be reduced, and who will get what amount of tax relief. In 2001, the richest Americans got by far the largest tax cuts. Someone whose annual income exceeds $1 million received a tax cut which averaged $45,000 for each of the next ten years. President Bush's current tax proposal would give them another tax cut averaging $85,000 per year for the decade. I believe that is too much for the rich of America and not enough for the rest of America.
In most business, farm, or government budgets, income has to match expenditures, or there soon will be serious consequences. Not so in Washington. There, it is possible to reduce taxes and increase spending, thus creating enormous deficits; issue a couple trillion dollars more of public debt to cover them and, thereby, avoid the hard decisions and postpone the even harder consequences until later.
Just three years ago, in President Clinton's last full fiscal year, the federal government ran surpluses in its two main accounts: the Social Security Trust Fund and the General Operating Fund. In fact, it was the first time in 40 years that the General Operating Fund finished the year with a surplus. Unfortunately, it is likely to be another 40 years before it does so again.
The 2001 tax cut eliminated the surpluses expected for the rest of the decade, and the recession, lack of a recovery, and costs of two wars have thrown the General Operating Fund back into enormous annual deficits. In 2000, its revenues slightly exceeded expenditures. This year, those revenues, which come from personal and corporate income taxes and from capital gains, estate, and excise taxes, will cover only 2/3 of expenditures. The other 1/3 will require "borrowing" the entire Social Security surplus of $163 billion and still leave a deficit of over $300 billion, which will be added to the national debt. And next year's deficit is expected to be just as bad.
There is only one rational and responsible reason for a tax cut this year, and that is to help invigorate the national economy. To be an effective economic stimulus, the tax cut should provide as much relief as possible, to as many people as possible, as quickly as possible, so that they will spend it and increase consumer demand for goods and services.
Unfortunately, the most prominent proposals would again provide most of their benefits to the wealthiest Americans, and much less to middle-income and lower income taxpayers. Consider the President's proposal to lower federal income tax rates. The top bracket would receive the largest rate reduction, from 39.8 percent to 35 percent. That reduction only benefits people with taxable incomes above $311,950. The current 35-percent rate would drop to 32 percent, which helps folks whose taxable incomes exceed $174,700.
By contrast, the rate cut in the lowest bracket, from 15 percent to 10 percent, will be applied to less than 1/4 of the taxable income in that bracket. It equals a 1.25 percent rate reduction for the entire bracket. So the rate which affects the most people, which includes everyone who pays federal income taxes, would receive the smallest reduction.
I prefer a tax cut which would be much fairer to all federal income taxpayers and a better economic stimulus. My plan would triple the amount of income taxed at the new 10-percent rate. I also support the President's proposal to increase the child tax credit immediately from $600 to $1,000 per child.
My proposal would provide a larger tax cut to all but the richest Americans than the President's plan; yet, mine would cost the federal treasury less than half of his. Less to the rich and more to the rest of America is too good to pass But I intend to try.
