Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions S951
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 30, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
S. 951. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow medicare beneficiaries a refundable credit against income tax for the purchase of outpatient prescription drugs; to the Committee on Finance.
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I thank the senior Senator from Virginia, a leader on this measure. I will be brief because I am scheduled to meet in my office in just a few moments with the nominee for the new superintendent of the Air Force Academy, which is a matter on which the Senator from Virginia has also exhibited great leadership on behalf of this country.
I am very proud to join with Senator Warner in sponsoring this legislation. I agree and associate myself with everything the Senator has said regarding this matter.
I came to the Senate a little over 2 years ago, believing the most urgent matter facing our country in the area of social legislation was to provide prescription drug coverage for all of our elderly. I have been dismayed at our inability—all of us—to reach necessary agreements so such legislation could be enacted.
I could not agree more with the Senator from Virginia that this is something I hope our colleagues will consider. If there is a better approach that we can all agree on this year, then so be it. But in the absence of that, as there has been that failure during the last 2 years, I hope our colleagues will look at this as a very feeling alternative. Even if long-term legislation is enacted, I believe it will be at least a year or two before that is available to our senior citizens, before that program is set up. This is an approach that could be implemented very swiftly, could be available almost immediately, and could provide, on an interim basis if not a long-term basis, the financial assistance our elderly citizens desperately need.
I thank the senior Senator from Virginia. I am proud to associate myself with this legislation.
I yield the floor.
