Public Statements
Bipartisan Senatorial Trip to Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, and China
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 30, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

BIPARTISAN SENATORIAL TRIP TO JAPAN, TAIWAN, SOUTH KOREA, AND CHINA
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I want to share some of my experiences over the last 2 weeks as part of a bipartisan delegation of Senators who traveled to Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, and China. Upon my return to Minnesota last week, directly from Beijing, I never had so many inquiries from people meeting with me as to my health and well-being. Fortunately, I assured them I was not carrying SARS, which is something to be taken obviously very seriously.
The trip was led by our Senate majority leader BILL FRIST, and was led extraordinarily well by him. I cannot say enough to reflect my respect and admiration for his demeanor, his leadership, his poise, and his presence when facing the heads of state when we had these meetings in China, South Korea, and Taiwan.
We may be Republicans and Democrats, but occasionally we need to be reminded that at our core all of us are Americans. Ultimately, we all succeed or we do not succeed together, and that was certainly the spirit of this bipartisan delegation of five Republican Senators and three Democratic Senators. We got along very well. I do not think there was a cross word among us. We enjoyed very much the privilege of representing the United States of America as we did, and I believe under Senator Frist's leadership we did so responsibly and hopefully honorably.
After careful consideration, at the end of our trip, the principal reason we decided to go through with our plans to go to China was the opportunity it presented to meet with the new Chinese leadership and particularly to discuss the situation concerning North Korea's nuclear weapons program. We certainly carefully considered and Senator Frist, of course, being a doctor, was in the forefront of considering very carefully the exposure we would have, the risks that would be entailed in regard to SARS. We took every possible precaution. I washed my hands and face more in 2 and a half days in Beijing than I usually do in about 2 weeks in Minnesota. So far, knock on wood, it seems to have been effective.
As I said, we believed the opportunity to converse directly with the new President of China, President Hu Jintao, as well as the other new Chinese leadership, and to press upon them the urgency we felt about resolving the nuclear situation in North Korea was worth that trip, and it proved to be. I was pleasantly surprised to learn that, in fact, China shares our goal, as their leadership expressed several times, to bring about a nuclear-free Korean peninsula, and that position which was stated by them was corroborated by our Ambassador, Clark T. Randt, Jr., who apparently was a classmate of the President who appointed him, President Bush. Both of them, it turns out, were fraternity brothers of mine back in college.
I had a chance to reminisce with him. He reassured all of us that the Chinese Government had been very influential in bringing North Korea to the negotiating table last week, the trilateral talks that commenced in Beijing. They could have been more timely but at least they are underway. Hopefully, they will continue actively with the top-level attention they certainly need.
It was a signal of a great opportunity to work in partnership with the new Chinese Government to reach the shared objective of ridding North Korea of its nuclear weapons and to create a nuclear-free Korean peninsula. What a great way to build a partnership for the next 10, 20 years, which is what this Government in China now professes it wants with the United States. President Hu said himself their primary objective for the next two decades is to increase and expand the economic progress that has been made in their country, to raise the standard of living of more and more of their citizens through the United States and other foreign investment through additional trade and economic growth there which has been staggering in the last 10 to 15 years. As they pointed out, especially in the middle and western parts of the country, so much more needs to be done to bring those areas up to the eastern seaboard, mainland of China.
That, hopefully, will be their priority and one that will serve to increase the likelihood of peace and economic and international security throughout the world. There would be nothing we could do that would be any more beneficial to our national interests than to encourage their economic progress and to build a relationship that is economic, that is cultural and social after they have resolved their current health crisis, and also provide the strong influence of both countries for peaceful resolution of the situation in North Korea and others that will arise inevitably in that part of the world.
They also stressed, as did the South Korean and Taiwanese Governments, the importance of peacefully resolving the situation in North Korea. Anyone who believes a military resolution would be advisable should go over and meet with the leaders of those three respective countries혰South Korea, China, and Taiwan, and even in Japan, as well. From the leadership with whom we met there, there is no one in that part of the world in responsible positions who wants to see a military threat or military action initiated there.
There has been a great deal of economic progress in the areas of South Korea and Taiwan. While claiming to suffer from the worldwide economic slowdown, the rates of economic growth they are realizing in those countries, from 3.5- to 5-percent growth annually, is something that certainly this country and other nations in the world would be delighted to achieve. For them, that is a slowdown, creating unemployment they have not had heretofore and economic and social problems and welfare and safety net problems they have not had to deal with for the last decade.
They also have a vital stake in having North Korea's nuclear program eliminated, as the President has said properly so, but continued so in a way that does not threaten the security and the stability of that region of the world.
We also had the opportunity to travel to the demilitarized zone between North Korea and South Korea and had dinner with the 2nd Army Division혰"second to none" is one of their mottos, and appropriately so. They are second to none in their dedication and courage and commitment for being there. We stood right there on the DMZ and looked, as they do night after night, across the border. Another motto of theirs is "fight tonight." They are in a constant State of readiness and alert, and all Americans should be mindful and respectful and enormously grateful to those brave men and women who put their lives on the line day and night, one after the other, without the kind of recognition their compatriots get in other parts of the globe혰just as well trained, just as well prepared, every bit as willing to stand and defend the beacon of freedom in Korea as our forces have done so outstandingly in Iraq and previously in Afghanistan and anywhere else in the world.
That is a reminder, once again, that freedom is priceless, but it is not free. It has to be won and preserved through dedication of the brave men and women in the 2nd Army Division. And to all of them, and their leader, GEN Leon LaPorte, commander of the United States forces in Korea, we all have the utmost respect and admiration.
It reminded me why I introduced, along with Senator Sessions last year, legislation that would provide for financial incentive for troops involved, particularly those who reenlist in areas of the world such as Korea where they are separated from their families for long periods of time. It is one of the most difficult places in the military, we are told by the commanders, in which to recruit and especially re-recruit men and women to serve terms of duty because of the hardships, because of the additional costs that have to be borne because usually their families are left behind and that involves two parallel tracks of expenses혰separation and phone bills. Senator Sessions and I proposed an income tax exemption for troops who serve in far-flung areas of the world such as Korea. I will renew my efforts this year to see that legislation enacted because it is the least we can do and the least that is deserved by these brave men and women.
The commanders in those areas have asserted it would be invaluable in recruiting efforts.
I see the real leader and the commander of the Senate when it comes to the Armed Services, my very distinguished chairman of the committee on which I am proud to serve, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, the Senator from Virginia.
I yield the floor.
