Public Statements
Recongnition of the Golden Gophers
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 30, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

RECOGNITION OF THE GOLDEN GOPHERS
Mr. DAYTON. I rise with my colleague on the morning after a difficult night for Minnesota sports fans with both of our teams, the Timberwolves and the Wild, losing playoff games at home. This is a way to remind ourselves of days of former glory, and certainly with my distinguished colleague, Senator Coleman, who was instrumental and probably deserves more credit than any other person in Minnesota for bringing professional hockey back to St. Paul and Minnesota. The Minnesota Wild, which is now in its third year, is performing so well, it is fitting that we can rise together here for the second time this year to pay tribute to a Minnesota team, its collegiate hockey team; in this case, the Golden Gophers of the University of Minnesota, who have repeated now as national champions for the second time, the first time in 31 years that a college team has repeated for the men's championship.
They join the University of Minnesota women's team, the Duluth Bulldogs women's team, who earlier this year won their third consecutive national collegiate hockey championship.
As they were playing the Golden Gophers for the national title, I happened to be flying across the Pacific Ocean on a codel headed by Majority Leader BILL FRIST, and it turns out that his press secretary was a graduate of the University of New Hampshire. So we had a friendly wager on the outcome. I am delighted to soon be the recipient of a quart of maple syrup, which makes it as sweet a victory for me as for the team, and certainly for all the hockey fans throughout Minnesota.
This was supposed to be a rebuilding year for this team. Nobody thought they would make the playoffs, much less win the national championship. They had a new goalie and were the defending national champions. That made them everyone's target. They kept getting better and better as the year went on. When they reached the playoffs, they were unbeatable. They won four straight victories to win the WCHA championship and then four straight victories, over stiff
competition—the best in the Nation—in order to win the national championship for the second straight year. Once again, they accomplished this with almost entirely Minnesota talent.
Some people ask why it took 23 years—from 1979 to 1992—for Minnesota, which is the hockey capital of the Nation, to repeat as the national collegiate champion. In 1979, when they won, there were only two Division I college teams in Minnesota. Presently there are five. There is that increase in competition among the Minnesota colleges themselves and for our Minnesota hockey talent. In addition, the other programs—in the West, WCHA, and in the east, the CCHA—recruited extensively in Minnesota, and even eastern hockey spent heavily on Canadian talent. In my days of playing, in the 1960s, for example, in Division I hockey, it used to be said that Canadian boys dreamed of playing in the National Hockey League, and if those hopes and dreams were dashed, they went on to college in the United States.
Despite all that fierce competition for the talent and the pressures on that team, Coach Don Lucia has built, in just 5 years, an extraordinary program, a world class program in Minnesota that has restored collegiate hockey to its rightful place, at the very top in Minnesota. It is a real tribute to Coach Lucia and his entire team, all the players who performed extraordinarily well under the circumstances, and who are now, once again, the national collegiate champions.
It is Senator Coleman's and my hope that the President will be gracious enough to invite our two teams, the University of Minnesota Golden Gophers men's team and the University of Minnesota Duluth women's team, to the White House for recognition, as he had in the previous year with both teams, and before that with the women's team.
I went to college with the President. He was a year ahead of me, and he was not a hockey player. He was a rugby player. He was a sports fan. He roomed in college with a college All-American from Minnesota, Jack Morrison. He was a frequent attendee at our hockey games at Yale University. Two years ago, when the UMD women won the first championship, the President was gracious and responded instantaneously and invited the women's team, as he had previously invited the men's championship team from Boston College, to be feted at the White House. It could not have been a more exciting moment for the players, their families, friends, and the coaches at the University of Minnesota Duluth. Last year, we had the good fortune of having both championship teams, and the President was gracious enough to invite them both, along with the families, friends, and coaches, to the White House.
Senator Coleman and I have put in our request and soon expect that the President will be gracious enough to once again invite the teams and commend all those who play sports throughout the Nation, such as hockey, as they should be played—with all the enthusiasm and the best of their talent and ability, learning the values of sportsmanship, teamwork, competition. Sometimes they don't come out as well as they would like, but every once in a while they may reach the pinnacle of success of a national championship. I am sure the President would concur with that.
Again, I salute my favorite teams in Minnesota.
I yield the floor.
