Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account - Asia CODEL II
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 25, 2003
Location: Unknown

Your Dayton's Account
Asia CODEL II
I was recently invited by Senator Bill Frist, the Republican Majority Leader, to travel with him and six other colleagues to China, South Korea, Taiwan and Japan. We met with the leaders of all four countries, with the U.S. military commander in Korea, with our troops on the North Korean border, and even with the University of Minnesota's Alumni Chapter in Beijing!
North Korea's nuclear weapons program was at the top of our agenda for every meeting. I was particularly encouraged by our discussions with China's new President, Hu Jintao. He made it clear that China also wanted a nuclear-free Korean peninsula. Their sincerity was corroborated by the American Ambassador in Beijing who turned out to be, like President Bush who appointed him, one of my college fraternity brothers!
For the last 50 years, China has been North Korea's protector and benefactor. An estimated 30 percent of North Korea's "economy " consists of foreign aid, and much of that comes from China. Thus, China's leaders have more influence over North Korea's ruler, Kim Jong-Il, than anyone else.
China's willingness to host the negotiations with the United States and North Korea was another hopeful sign. When North Korea's leaders recently resisted China's pressure to agree to negotiations, they found their oil supply from China stopped for three days due to "technical difficulties, " they hastily agreed to the talks!
President Hu Jintao also stressed that the North Korean problem must be resolved diplomatically, not militarily. This view was shared by the leaders of South Korea, Taiwan, and Japan. None of them supported a war to remove North Korea's nuclear weapons.
South Korea has the most to lose from increased regional hostilities. Their capital city, Seoul, is only 27 miles from the North Korean border. Yet it, like most of the country, has experienced strong economic growth in recent years.
Officials at the Minnesota Department of Transportation, who proclaim that we cannot build our way out of highway gridlocks, should visit Seoul. While there is certainly traffic congestion, there is tremendous movement of large numbers of vehicles along 4 to 8 continuous lanes in each direction, in the heart of the city!
South Korea is actively seeking foreign investment. They especially want new technologies, since their economy is growing too rapidly to wait for internally developed innovations. I would be glad to put any interested Minnesota business executives in touch with the business development director at the U.S. Embassy in Seoul, or he can be accessed directly through his website:
