Public Statements
Your Dayton's Account - Asia CODEL I
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 11, 2003
Location: Unknown

Your Dayton's Account
Asia CODEL I
To my pleasant surprise, I was recently invited by Senator Bill Frist, the Republican Majority Leader, to join him and six other Senators on a diplomatic trip to South Korea, Taiwan, China, and Japan. We are scheduled to leave April 12th, and I will return to Minnesota on April 22nd. This will be my second out-of-the-country trip while a Senator. In January 2002, five colleagues and I traveled to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and neighboring countries. From experiences like driving for an hour into Kabul, Afghanistan, on a bombed-out road past destitute but machine-gun-carrying Afghans, I learned that some things must be experienced to be understood. Our country's military capabilities, especially, can be difficult to fathom, when they are reduced to words and numbers on paper. However, watching tanks maneuver and fire in training exercises, "piloting" a future Harrier in a simulator, or feeling my stomach turn inside out at "5 G's" in a diving Duluth Air National Guard F-16 fighter plane are real educational experiences!
Our trip, like most official Senate travels, is organized and conducted by the U.S. military. They call us "Codels," short for Congressional delegations. They name the Codel for the highest ranking Senator in the delegation; thus, our group is titled "Codel Frist." In that hierarchy, I rank just slightly above our group's luggage! It is enough to get me on the plane, however, and that is good enough for me!
There has been considerable discussion about whether we should visit China, because of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. Vice President Cheney's China trip was recently cancelled, reportedly due to those concerns. For that reason, the U.S. State Department and the Chinese government both fervently hope that we will not be a second cancellation. If we do proceed, as I hope we will, we will be the first official U.S. delegation to meet with China's new leadership.
Another reason to go to China is that, if we cancel there, we cannot go to Taiwan without severely offending the Chinese government. They, of course, want to repossess Taiwan, as they did Hong Kong. Our visit is also very important to the Taiwanese government. They need the reassurance of continuing U.S. support for their country to deter a Chinese takeover. It's nice to be wanted somewhere!
I have not previously visited any of the four countries, and the one I most want to see is South Korea. There is a new, democratically elected leader of that country, and we again will be the first official American delegation to meet with him. We will then travel to the demilitarized zone between South and North Korea, and we will meet with the Commander of the U.S. Armed Forces there. We are scheduled to eat dinner with some of the troops, and our dinner companions may be from our home states. At the Afghanistan border a year ago, I ate lunch with a member of the Army's Special Forces, who was born and raised in Virginia, Minnesota.
I called his parents when I returned home. They had not heard from their son since he was shipped overseas, and they did not know either where he was or how he was. They were greatly relieved that I had good news to report. So was I!
It's a powerful experience to meet young men and women, less than half my age, who are proudly serving our country halfway around the world. Their patriotism and courage instruct and inspire me.
