Public Statements
Floor Statement of Senator Mark Dayton In Support of our Troops in Iraq
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 3, 2003
Location: Unknown

Floor Statement of Senator Mark Dayton
In support of our troops in Iraq
I rise to pay tribute today to the heroic men and women of our armed forces who are performing so well on behalf of our country in Iraq. Their courage, their patriotism, their valor represent the finest traditions and the best values of the American military and of the country which they serve.
They have fought brilliantly. They have fought bravely. And they have fought successfully. They have now advanced to within ten miles of Baghdad. They have been victorious thus far. They will be victorious from now on. And they will be victorious in the end.
To the brave women and men who gave their lives in the service of their nation, to their families and friends, the people they love and the people who love them, we express our heartfelt gratitude and our deepest sorrow and our condolences. We are in awe of your courage, your heroism. We know that the families and friends of those fallen heroes who are our friends and neighbors, our co-workers and church members, we know that you have suffered the most grievous losses and must be suffering inestimable pain. Our hearts go out to you. Our Prayers are with you. We stand beside you ready to help you in any way we can.
As we say also to the families and friends of American soldiers wounded or captured or missing or fighting or still deployed in Iraq, please let us know how we can support you and assist you during these difficult times. Our prayers are with you also for the swift recoveries, safe returns of all of our troops back to their country, their fellow citizens who are so proud and so grateful for them.
I also want to pay my respects to the military commanders responsible for the planning and execution of this engagement. Secretary Rumsfeld, chairman Myers, you've served our country and you continue to serve our country with great honor and distinction. You're carrying out your duties, your oaths of office to the best of your abilities. You're succeeding. You're winning this war. I may not agree with you on everything. I don't agree with myself on everything. But you have earned my utmost respect and admiration for your professionalism, your dedication and your patriotic service to our country.
You do not deserve the back stabbing, second-guessing, the carping, the Monday-morning quarter backing which has dogged your every decision. Former President Dwight Eisenhower once said any high school kid can do better with a Presidential decision with 20/20 hind sight than a President can at the time when he has only partial information and is operating by his wits. It's all too easy for someone with military background to sit in judgment in hindsight. I don't disagree with their Constitutional right to do so. I disagree with their judgment in doing so. I question their motives for doing so, as some appear to be vying to become the next network analyst or the next Geraldo. But as the saying goes, Mr. President, actions speak louder than words. And the actions of these brave men and women fighting on our behalf, winning on our behalf speak louder. They drown out, they overwhelm any naysayer, any words of their conduct, of decisions that they are carrying out, which, as I say, will be victorious for this nation. And we owe them our inestimable gratitude. Thank you, Mr. President.
