Public Statements
Commending the University of Minnesota Duluth Bulldogs
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 3, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

COMMENDING THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA DULUTH BULLDOGS
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I am proud to rise today with my colleague from Minnesota, Senator Coleman, to pay tribute to the University of Minnesota Duluth Women's Ice Hockey Team, who just won their third consecutive National Collegiate Athletic Association championship. The Bulldogs defeated an outstanding Harvard team, 4 to 3, in the second sudden-death overtime.
I was once a hockey goalie, back in the days when we used dinosaur bones for goalie sticks. So I have experienced firsthand the incredible intensity and pressure of overtime in hockey. It truly is "sudden death." For the Bulldogs to win their third straight national championship under that pressure, in front of their families, friends, and many fans in Duluth, is an extraordinary achievement.
I congratulate all the players on the University of Minnesota Duluth team, their head coach, Shannon Miller, who has spearheaded this incredibly successful hockey program, and UMD Chancellor Kathryn Martin. They have accomplished more than anyone could have imagined just 3 years ago, and they have made all Minnesotans exceptionally proud of them.
Senator Coleman, Representative Jim Oberstar, and I have written to President Bush and asked him to invite the team to the White House. Two years ago, after the Bulldogs' won their first national championship, I read that the NCAA men's championship team had been invited to the White House. We asked the President then that the UMD women's team be so honored. The President graciously extended that invitation to the Bulldogs team and personally hosted them at the White House.
Last year, we had the additional thrill of attending a White House ceremony honoring both the men's and women's NCAA hockey champions: the University of Minnesota Duluth women's champions and the University of Minnesota men's champions. Since the Gophers men's team is now in the semifinals of their national tournament, I am hopeful that we will experience that same thrill again this year. Regardless of that outcome, the UMD women's team are again the National Champions. A "Threepeat!" Awesome! Congratulations, Bulldogs!
