Public Statements
Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing on Sexual Misconduct at Air Force Academy
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 31, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE
HOLDS HEARING ON SEXUAL MISCONDUCT AT AIR FORCE ACADEMY
DAYTON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for bringing this hearing to the public so rapidly and also for your leadership in getting us right through this, regardless of where it leads. Thank you very much.
And Senator Allard, who is also, along with you, I commend you also for your leadership. I think, Mr. Chairman, you and the ranking member, Senator Levin and Senator McCain and others have spoken here of—have covered many of these areas very, very well. I just say briefly, Senator Allard said it was a tragic juxtaposition that we have right now a war in which we are seeing the best of the Air Force and it is the courageous pilots and others involved in that effort and now we're dealing with this matter, which really, I think, is the worst of the academy.
I've been also involved in nominating two women who have been admitted to the academy and I feel very personally responsible and alarmed, even though I don't know their outcomes, but to think that we are nominating and sending young women to the academy to go through these kinds of experiences and humiliations and then have their lives, if not their careers seriously impaired, is just to me abhorrent, the fact that it has gone on so long without any attention at the very top, and I recognize that this preceded your arrival there. But it is just to me shocking.
You know, in the armed forces have set in the past very high standards for America's young men and women and by its acceptance of all Americans into the academy to its ranks played a very crucial role in integrating these men and women into American society. In the past, its acceptance and integration of racial minorities and others, it has set the lead for our society in these important respects, but in this case, it is clearly not only lagging the country, but it is proceeding in exactly the wrong direction.
The number of instances that has occurred in the last eight or 10 years, the fact that none were reported for the previous 20 years since women were admitted to the academy indicates to me that this is probably the tip of the iceberg in terms of what has transpired there over these years. The victims have been punished and the perpetrators, in many cases, it seems, have been promoted, which is, again, sending exactly the wrong message and creating an ethic which is antithetical to the values of this society which the Air Force is tasked to defend, in which it has so courageously in the past and is doing so today.
So, I would say that the change in leadership is the necessary beginning, but this will not be completed until there have been fundamental changes made in the structure of the academy and the content of its activities and its life and until the victims, to the extent possible, every one of them have had their situations, their careers, they are still in the Air Force remedied and that they have not been sanctioned in ways that have lasting effect on their careers.
And if they left the service, any effort has been made to remediate those situations until the violators have been punished and I would, effective to what I have also read in the some of the reviews that are still current, even in regards to this inquiry and these actions that have been taken, I would support what Senator McCain said about the need for an outside investigation—I don't believe it is possible that this will be completed to my satisfaction if it is just an inside inquisition.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
DAYTON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
General Gilbert, in a published news account publicly acknowledges suggesting the one cadet who alleged she was raped that she had exercised poor judgment, according to the report. That case involved Lisa Ballis (ph) currently a senior cadet who said she was assaulted in October of 2001. Then she had a meeting with General Gilbert reportedly that took place on April 8, 2002, about six months after she says she was raped. And it is the quote of Ms. Ballis (ph), "It was somehow my fault this happened to me, full or partial blame," Ballis (ph) wrote in her e-mail recounting her meeting with Gilbert. She quoted Gilbert as telling her you didn't have to go to that party. You didn't have to drink that night. You didn't have to play the card game and you didn't have to follow him back to the bathroom.
Gilbert, in his written comments confirmed that he made these remarks to Ms. Ballis (ph). Ballis (ph) said that Gilbert scolder her for her behavior leading up to the assault, adding that, quote, "If I had my way you'd be marching tours" a form of punishment at the academy, right next to her assailant. He did not deny making that remark.
General Gilbert did not support a court marshal for Ballis's (ph) alleged assailant because of lack of evidence (inaudible) reported. The male cadet received minor punishment. She went on to say we were made to feel that we're to blame for these instance and we have to fight against our own United States military.
In another report, once not very long ago, Kira Mt. Joy Pepka's (ph) eyes shown bright when she spoke of piloting airplanes. Few her age seem to have so promising a future in aviation. But, now, when the conversation turns to flying, the former U.S. Air Force Academy cadet dips her head and stares at the floor. Ever since she said a fellow cadet raped her a year ago in her freshman year at the academy, her dreams of flying F-16's and her love for the Air Force has crumbled. She was the first in November of 2001, she was chosen as the year's first freshman to fly an Air Force roaring above the academy's football stadium before a game.
But, her downward spiral began a year ago when a senior cadet, whom she knew slightly through the academy's Arrow Club, raped her in a dormitory room. It goes on she struggled academically, athletically, she was emotionally devastated. She was harassed and hounded by the academy's leadership for minor disciplinary infractions until she finally quit last Christmas. While Mt. Joy Pepka (ph) remains upset about these sexual assaults, she is angriest about her treatment by the academy's majors, colonels and generals who she says turned the tables on her after she reported the assault. She said some officers criticized her for acting affectionately with her cadet boyfriend and other cadet. Said she was, quote, "no lady" close quote and suggested that her behavior was generally promiscuous.
Sir, I am astonished that you could say that the climate under those individuals in the 18 events or two years have been substantially different if these kinds of incidents, that these kinds of statements publicly acknowledged by the General Gilbert to be made by him are going on there. I think it's a perfect example of how this climate there has caused, in this case, for two young women, their lives to be almost destroyed, certainly seriously damaged. She's out of the Air Force Academy. She's out and she doesn't have that opportunity and her male perpetrator goes on. To me it's just shameful that it happens and it's even more shameful that the academy and the people in charge there let it happen and just now, even now, say that, you know, on the General, on the lip service to caring about things, but don't do a damn thing about it. It's shameful.
ROCHE: Senator, the comment made by General Gilbert was most certainly insensitive.
DAYTON: Insensitive?
ROCHE: And he apologized for it, sir. The circumstances surrounding the cases there are other sides to this. These are press reports of one side of a story, Senator. If, in fact...
DAYTON: She's out of the Air Force, the young woman.
ROCHE: She well may have left the Air Force Academy, sir. I don't want to get into any particular case because of privacy rules.
DAYTON: No, she brought it public.
ROCHE: She brought it public, she's out.
DAYTON: She brought the matter public.
ROCHE: But, I can't—it would be wrong, wrong for us to give...
DAYTON: All right. Let me go back to another—you mentioned the 1993 that the new changes were put into place that were supposed to be dealing with this problem. And, according to another news account in 1997 an annul survey of cadets show that 10 percent of women responding said they had been the victim of a sexual assault in the academy the previous 12 months, 10 percent of the woman responding said they'd been the victim of a sexual assault at the academy in the previous 12 months. Some 75 percent say that if they were raped they would not report it out of fear of retribution.
Now, I realize, sir, that you were not there during this time. But, in terms of the culpability of former administrations, I would urge that the Inspector Generals investigation or this independent investigation, which I persuaded as even—is absolutely necessary, go back into this. If they instituted changes in 1993, we're told in an annual survey in 1997 that 10 percent of those responding, even if it's not a random sample, said they've been the victim of sexual assault at the academy the previous 12 months and they continue to believe that they had dealt with the problem? I mean it just blows the mind.
ROCHE: No, sir. I understand. That one of the reasons we went back 10 years, Senator...
DAYTON: I know.
ROCHE: ... is to be able to have as big a vacuum cleaner of these cases as we could to look over the period of time.
DAYTON: How about a vacuum cleaner for those who were responsible while this was going on?
ROCHE: And it turns out at any given administration you find a similar set of circumstances. But, you do find them all trying to make use of what was done in '93 and in '96 in character development courses, in hotlines, in using the cadet sexual assistance program, you find them, in each case, trying to make these things work. And, we believe that by coming out of the chain of command they, in fact, in some cases had the unintended consequences that are making them less effective.
DAYTON: What changes were made subsequent to 1997 to this survey to changes in 1993, changes that were clearly at that point not having the desired result?
ROCHE: I'm not aware of anything that occurs between '97 and last year.
DAYTON: I'd appreciate it if somebody could give me that research.
ROCHE: I don't think there were any major ones. They kept trying to reinforce what they had, which they believed and had been told was the way to go. In terms of the particulars of a case, as I say, Senator, there's complications on both sides. But, if, in fact, the events were as reported, which we cannot back up in some cases; I don't want to say this particular case. It is shameful. We agree with you.
DAYTON: I'm not trying the cases. I'm trying—individually. But, the sheer number of them and this kind of response, 10 percent of the women responding and then, as I say, I'd like to see what...
(CROSSTALK)
ROCHE: And we've looked at...
DAYTON: Let me just say...
ROCHE: We've looked at all the surveys, even those that are considered not valid. We've look at some of the comments of the cadets. You get them on both sides. Our sense is that there was a major climate problem and that's why we've taken the forcible actions we've taken.
DAYTON: I appreciate that you've done so. I'm just saying that there's a lot more to be done.
ROCHE: But, I agree with you. In accountability, you'd have to go back and look at that administration in '97 and find the superintendent and the commandant and do whatever is done to the current two, you have to do it for those two as well.
DAYTON: And that will be done?
ROCHE: We've asked the Inspector General to, at any given case, at any given period, if there is something that we should go back and do, we will do it.
DAYTON: One last question, you've mentioned a couple times, Mr. Secretary, the athletic department, is there a set of circumstances there that differs from the academy or are there attitudes or actions that are there that go beyond what's occurred elsewhere in the academy?
ROCHE: We have a sense, Senator, that there have been incidents associated with athletes that we're not proud of. We have a sense that the athletes...
DAYTON: What does that mean that you're not proud of it?
ROCHE: There are reports that are being looked at right now some of the behavior of some of the athletes. We know the athletes have a life that's very different than the average cadet, these are collegiate athletes. They don't play intramural sports. They tend to, you know, be at training tables. In some cases the information flow between the athletic department and the commandant's group running the rest of the academy is such that someone dropped from the team can stay at the training table for a year and not be discovered. That the professional military education for the intercollegiate athletes was not being administered to the same degree it is for the others.
Yet, in one of the climate surveys you have 43 percent of the intercollegiate athletes who responded say they felt prejudiced against because they were intercollegiate athletes. Our sense was that athletics is a means to an end, not an end in itself. And, therefore, we wanted to bring it under the chain of command of the academy more closely than it has been.
DAYTON: Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
