Public Statements
Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing on Future of NATO
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 27, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE
HOLDS HEARING ON FUTURE OF NATO
DAYTON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I commend you for those remarks, Mr. Secretary. And I hope those will be the spirit of the administration moving forward. Winston Churchill once said—concluded the quote that "in victory, magnanimity; in peace, goodwill." And it seems to me that if we take those in anticipation of victory and move ahead, we set the lead and we set the tone on these. And I hope we can—just say if we agreed on everything all the time, we wouldn't need treaties or alliances. And I commend you for that.
In terms of admitting the new countries, is there a way to use those countries and their relationships with other neighbors such as Ukraine to intensify the effort to secure nuclear weapons from the former Soviet Union or weapons—nuclear materials? Is that something that—does this provide an opportunity to do so?
FEITH: I believe it does, Senator. Now, Ukraine, I think has—I believe I'm right, has given up all of its nuclear weapons and very commendably so. But the question of nuclear material is an extremely important one.
And may I say, Senator, just to your first point, we do set the tone here. And so, I do appreciate what you say. That, you know, NATO is not the Politburo and the European Union is not the Politburo, and we're dealing here with democracies. And that's a very important part of our strength. And as I said to Senator Allard, you know, we disagree on some things, but we so profoundly agree on so many things that we will go forward in that spirit, I'm quite sure.
DAYTON: I'm not well versed in the particulars of these countries, and granted you point in terms of dispose of nuclear weapons and materials. But to the extent that they have those or can this be one of the conditions or expectations for membership that they're going really button down the hatches, ideally relinquish those materials?
FEITH: Yes, sir. I'm sorry. I apologize.
Of the seven that are coming in, yes, absolutely, they shouldn't be in this business at all. And others have made the good suggestion that this adds to our possibility also of taking a look at the civilian nuclear reactors, for example, in these countries and bringing them up to certain safety standards.
GROSSMAN: And, Senator, the NATO Partnership for Peace Program, in which these various countries participate and there are a number of other countries that are still in that program, has addressed seriously the question that you are raising of controlling dangerous materials, nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction, related to materials and technologies from the former Soviet Union. And there's been work together on controlling exports, border control and the like as part of the program for the Partnership for Peace. And I think that it's been useful. We've invested in it and we've been quite pleased with the results.
DAYTON: Good. Thank you.
Russia once viewed the admission of these seven countries as a mortal threat to its own security. How has that been resolved? Has it been resolved?
FEITH: I think it has been resolved. When I testified here 11 months ago, I said, who could believe that we would be sitting here at that time, looking at the possible inclusion of these seven members, and particularly, Senator, the three Balkan states, and essentially have the Russians—I don't say they have to love this—but not being opposed to it. And I think there are three reasons for that.
First is, I think the founding act, which was the agreement that we made at the first expansion in these past few years, worked tolerably well. Wasn't perfect, but it worked tolerably well.
Second, I believe September 11th changed people's calculations. And you'll remember President Putin went to Brussels in October of 2001 and said who NATO brings into NATO is NATO's business. It was a big breakthrough. And I believe that he recognized the change in strategy.
And third, as I reported in my testimony, I believe that this new NATO/Russia Council is also beginning to show some benefit. As I promised here a year ago, it's not a back door to NATO for Russia and it's not a way for Russia to veto what NATO wants to do. But if we can work on, you know, airspace management and civil emergency planning, getting ready for emergencies, those are all good things, sir.
So I believe that the whole change in strategy here and the way people are thinking about their strategy has been much to our benefit.
DAYTON: Thank you.
And in terms of the force presence in some of these 20th century outposts around the world, you know, given the call-up on the Reserves and National Guard, at least in Minnesota, we have any number of very patriotic men and women who are now in their second tour of duty in less than a year. And at the same time, some of the active forces are not—well, dormant was the word I was going to use; probably not the right characterization, but they don't seem to be as actively engaged in support of the current war effort as the Reserves and National Guard that's been called up.
I mean, are we really going to bite the bullet on this, and not in a way that's perceived as a, you know, retaliation or reaction to some of these disagreements, but really in a way that, from a cost effectiveness standpoint, that we are trying to, you know, take back what we don't need to be present? And given these kind of deployments, as you said, all over the world from anywhere in the world, just doesn't seem to make much sense to have these kind of numbers of troops and the cost of them distributed around the world.
FEITH: As I mentioned in my opening remarks, Senator, we are reviewing our force posture globally. And we are looking to ensure that we have the kind of forward presence that contributes to our capability to react quickly to events. We need flexibility. We have taken forces from different parts of the world and moved them around, and that's an important of the flexibility that we need. And I think the kinds of concerns that you have raised are part of our thinking. We want to make sure that we have the right forces deployed in the right places with the right kind of flexibility so that we can use what we need where we need it.
And there's a major difference between our thinking now and our thinking during the Cold War, and that is in the Cold War the key concept behind our deployments in Europe was that the forces were going to be used in Europe. We had a focus on where the threat was coming from, and it was the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact, and we had an idea of what the battlefield was, and we had our forces there in the battlefield ready to go.
What we've learned since the end of the Cold War is that, we have no idea where the next battlefield is going to be. Secretary Rumsfeld stresses all the time that when Dick Cheney was being questioned by the Senate in his confirmation hearings, nobody asked any questions back in 1989 about Iraq. And when Secretary Rumsfeld was being questioned this time for his confirmation hearings, nobody asked any questions about Afghanistan. And this is not a reflection on the Senate; he didn't think of it either. Nobody—nobody—thought that we were going to be fighting in the next place were we wound up fighting.
And what that means to us is we need to have our forces deployed appropriately around the world, but not with the notion that they're going be fighting where they happen to be based. And that's a very important element of our analysis in thinking through our global force posture.
DAYTON: Thank you.
