Public Statements
Nomination of Jay S. Bybee for United States Circuit Court
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 13, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. DAYTON. Madam President, I first pay tribute to my very distinguished colleague and senior Senator from West Virginia, whose eloquence on this subject has been magnificent in the last months and whose leadership in behalf of the wisdom of the Senate and the tradition of the Senate has been recognized by—I believe the Senator said over 20,000 telephone calls from fellow citizens came into his office in response to his outspoken courage.
The Senator said he noticed in last Sunday's New York Times a reprint of one of his famous speeches which he gave here just a short while ago.
I thank the Senator for his gracious leadership on behalf of our country and on behalf of the institution of this Senate. This Senator has learned more about the Constitution and the traditions of this great institution from the Senator from West Virginia than from any other source. I am grateful for that education, which is actually the subject I want to bring up today because in a few moments we will begin voting once again on proceeding to a nomination to the second highest court.
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from West Virginia. I would stand proudly with the Senator on any matter shoulder to shoulder. I believe I am 30-some years younger than the Senator. I wish I had the Senator's vigor and eloquence to carry forward. I thank the Senator for those kind words.
Taking what I have learned from the distinguished senior Senator from West Virginia, I note, with dismay, that while this body has spent over 100 hours on the Senate floor debating this judicial nomination, I compare that 100 hours on one judicial appointment with the number of hours this year this body has spent discussing and debating a declaration of war before commencing a war against Iraq.
And the answer is: Zero, not 1 hour, not 1 minute of formal debate in the 108th session of the Senate on this profound matter of war and peace, life and death—even now, with this Nation poised on the brink of war, a war which the United States is instigating, without direct provocation, without an immediate threat to our national security; the first war under the new doctrine of preemption, a claimed right to attack another country because they might become a future threat; the first war in which the United States is perceived in the eyes of much of the rest of the world as the provocateur, as a threat to world peace.
The Times of London recently surveyed the English people and asked: Who is the greatest threat to world peace today? Forty-five percent named Saddam Hussein, 45 percent named President Bush. In Dublin, Ireland, the poll was 31 percent Saddam Hussein, 68 percent President Bush. In the Arab world, the populations are overwhelmingly against a U.S. invasion of Iraq.
Osama bin Laden, with his most recent tape, is attempting to exploit those emotions, exhorting the members of his al-Qaida terrorist organization and followers to rise up against the invader, the crusader, the United States.
Those sentiments come as a great shock to us, as unwarranted and undeserved as they are. A few, unfortunately, in high levels in this administration believe they don't matter, that they are irrelevant.
Eighteen months ago, we had the sympathy and support of the entire world after the dastardly attacks of 9/11, support and
sympathy which has been needlessly squandered and which will not easily be regained.
Here at home our citizens receive color-coded warnings of greater or lesser unspecified threats. They are told to stockpile water, food, plastic sheets, and duct tape, or else they are told nothing at all.
The Secretary of Defense, testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee, on which I serve, said recently: We are entering what may prove to be the most dangerous security environment the world has known.
In the midst of this ominous, dangerous, fateful time, the 108th session of the Senate has devoted no time for debate or discussion. The last 3 days the debate has been on a bill that purports to ban partial-birth abortions, a matter of importance, a matter of great concern to some, but not one that required the attention of the Senate at this moment in time.
Now we move on to consider, once again, a judicial nomination, then another judge; and before that there was another judge. Does it appear we are avoiding something? Well, we are. We are avoiding our constitutional responsibility, perhaps the most important responsibility placed upon us by the U.S. Constitution: whether to declare war.
As I have learned from the distinguished Senator from West Virginia, the Constitution says—simply, clearly, emphatically—Congress shall declare war, only Congress, no one else—not the President, not the judiciary, not the military—only Congress, only the 435 Representatives and 100 Senators elected by and acting for the people of the United States.
Last October, a majority of the Members of the 107th Congress—a majority of the Members in the House and a majority of the Senate—voted to transfer that authority to the President. Five months before he even made his own final decision regarding war or peace, Congress was asked to give him that authority that the Constitution assigns only to us. And Congress did so. It passed a resolution that said the President may use whatever means necessary, including the use of force, against Iraq.
Oh, we use such clever euphemisms in the Senate, words which disguise the meaning of our intentions. Use "whatever means necessary." And, oh, by the way, lest you forget, it is OK with us if you use force—not the lives of American men and women, not their bodies, their blood, their patriotism—use force—not the deadly, ear-splitting, Earth-shaking, people-maiming, death-dealing bombs, and other weapons of destruction, the most devastating, overwhelming, terrifying, death-dealing force the world has ever known coming from us, the good guys, the protectors, the preservers of world peace, the United States of America.
What incredible foresight the Founders of this great Nation had in not wanting a decision that enormous, that Earth-shaking or ear-shattering to be made by one person—not by this President, not by any President.
Instead, this President asked for—and the 107th Congress acquiesced and gave—complete, unrestricted, unrestrained authority, with no conditions, no restraints to make that decision. Don't tie my hands, the President said.
Don't tie the President's hands? What did the Founders of the country think of that? Thomas Jefferson wrote, in 1798:
IN QUESTIONS OF POWER, THEN, LET NO MORE BE HEARD OF CONFIDENCE IN MAN, BUT BIND HIM DOWN FROM MISCHIEF BY THE CHAINS OF THE CONSTITUTION.
"Bind him down from mischief by the chains of the Constitution."
Tie his hands? That was not enough. "Chain him to the Constitution."
We, in Congress, are supposed to be chained to the Constitution. We took an oath. When we were sworn in, we promised to support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic, bear true faith and allegiance to the same Constitution.
That was our oath and our allegiance written—not to the country, not to our State, not to our Government but to the Constitution of the United States of America.
The Founders of this Nation had other admonitions for the United States regarding the Constitution: Follow it or change it, but don't ignore it or evade it.
George Washington, in his Farewell Address, in 1796, said:
IF, IN THE OPINION OF THE PEOPLE, THE DISTRIBUTION OF CONSTITUTIONAL POWERS BE WRONG, LET IT BE CORRECTED BY AMENDMENT IN THE WAY WHICH THE CONSTITUTION DESIGNATES. BUT LET THERE BE NO CHANGE BY USURPATION, FOR THOUGH THIS, IN ONE INSTANCE, MAY BE THE INSTRUMENT OF GOOD, IT IS THE CUSTOMARY WEAPON BY WHICH FREE GOVERNMENTS ARE DESTROYED.
Finally, an admonition from another perspective, that of Edward Gibbon, the author of the "History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire." He said:
THE PRINCIPLES OF A FREE CONSTITUTION ARE IRREVOCABLY LOST WHEN THE LEGISLATIVE POWER IS TAKEN OVER BY THE EXECUTIVE.
In this sense, the legislative power was not taken over by the Executive. We gave it away. Here, Mr. President, you decide. If you are right, we will try to share the credit. If you are wrong, you take the blame.
