Public Statements
Iraq and the Nomination of Miguel Estrada
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 26, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. DAYTON. We were elected to take an oath of office to uphold the Constitution, defend the Constitution from enemies, foreign and domestic. That is the oath each member takes very seriously. It is an oath that puts on each of our shoulders the responsibility to decide what that means.
Our distinguished Senator from West Virginia, ROBERT BYRD, presented me with a Constitution when I arrived here. I have learned a great deal about this document, about what it says and means. I have learned about the intentions of the Founders of the country. This document is the gospel which each member is required to follow. It says the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate—it does not say that the Senate shall approve or how the Senate shall consider. It says the Senate will be an equal partner with the President. The President will make a nomination, and it is for the Senate to decide, 100 Senators to decide, according to their own values and according to their own background experience and according to whatever they want to bring to bear on that matter how they will decide.
I have listened to a lot of these debates in the last couple of weeks on this matter. I am not a lawyer. I am not on the Judiciary Committee. I take very seriously my responsibility to weigh someone's career, weigh someone's character, to try to assess whether this is the kind of person I want to support to put on a court where he will be presiding, if he chooses, for the rest of his life; where he will be making decisions that will affect millions of people, whether someone has the right to housing or whether someone has the right to be protected from discrimination, whether some schoolchildren can go to school under better conditions. I don't know what kind of decisions this man will face, but I know they will be important. I know they will last for a long time and last beyond his own lifetime.
In effect, we are making a decision about someone who will be impacting the lives of Americans for two or three generations. That is the only time this person will be evaluated by his fellow citizens before that decision is made, unlike all of us who face our electorate every 6 years, or the House Members every 2 years, and the President himself every 4 years. This man will be appointed to the bench for life. I believe I am within my rights as one of the 100 who will make that decision to have sufficient information that I can make an informed judgment.
It is not for me to say to the administration the criteria they should use in making this kind of appointment. But I would be surprised, frankly, that out of all the vast numbers of highly qualified people in the country there would be someone chosen for the second highest court in the country without any previous judicial experience. If that is the case, I believe we have a special need to have information provided, to give each of us the information we seek and need to make that determination. That is not forthcoming, either.
We are told we can have certain information and we cannot have other information. I received a note from the White House counselor saying Mr. Estrada would meet with me, and I appreciate the gesture. I don't want to go back into my office off the record and have a conversation. I want to know on the record. This man does not have a judicial record. We have to find other means of obtaining that information. I am wondering why it is that somebody with no judicial record, no series of decisions that we can look to, writings we can look to for guidance as to his views, why he would not feel, and why the nominator would not feel a special obligation to provide that information.
If I went before the voters of Minnesota and refused to answer some of the questions Mr. Estrada refused to answer before the Judiciary Committee, I would be laughed out of the election. Certainly no one should vote for me if I would not give voters any information to allow them to understand my philosophy, what I value or not, what decisions I agreed with or disagreed with in the past, just basic information which we do not have about this man because he has no judicial record because he has never been a judge.
We have elected people in Minnesota who have not had prior experience, and it is fashionable to say they are not a career politician. In fact, we have a Governor who just departed who had that view, that was the right kind of qualification.
If I got on an airplane and the pilot said this is going to be a different kind of flight; I have never flown a commercial airline before, I would not feel more confident. I would be pretty worried. If somebody says they are taking their child in for surgery, and someone said that doctor had never performed that kind of surgery before, I would be very concerned. I would want to know some information about that individual. I would want to know that person's qualifications. I would want to know if that person had the training and skills to approach that matter before I trusted my life or the life of one of my children with that person. And we are entrusting the lives of unknown, not-yet-identified, very real people, very real Americans who will have to go before that court, where that court will review decisions that are made that are their last course. If justice is not served, justice will be forever denied them and that will be a tragic injustice they will suffer for the rest of their lives.
We cannot foresee all of that. We cannot prevent all of it. We have a responsibility to the Constitution of the United States which we swore to uphold and defend, which our Founders thought so important that they did not even talk about the country; they talked about the Constitution. That was our responsibility. Senator Byrd says that our responsibility is to uphold the Constitution. That is our responsibility. That is the responsibility of each of us.
I might want something different in terms of information or background than other of my colleagues. For some of my colleagues, the fact that the President made this nomination, he is of their political party, that is all the information they need, well, that is the absolute right of all of my colleagues who decide that way.
I don't question someone else's right to make their decision however they determine based on that, the same way I don't want anyone to question my right to have the information that I probably need, just basic information so I can know the background, qualifications, judicial philosophy, and views of this person. I don't believe any electorate in any State in this country would elect somebody who wanted to serve in a high office—Governor, Senate, member of the House—who had no prior political record, no prior involvement in public life, and went before the electorate and said: I want to be elected and I am not going to tell you where I stand or what I believe or what I do or what I agreed with in the past or who I like or do not like. I don't think anywhere in America there would be positive reaction to that.
I don't believe there would be a board of directors in corporate America that would hire somebody for an important position—chief executive officer, chief operating officer, the No. 2 position—that would even consider someone who would not provide the basic information that we are asking for here.
To me this gets into the realm of just being ludicrous, that we are in a position of being questioned for taking the particular position that says we want information.
I agree with my colleague from California. If we get the information, then there will be a vote. If we get information so those of us who have these reservations—and really, in my case, I have not come to a final decision because I do not have the information with which to do so. But I am not going to make that decision, I am not going to agree to this matter coming before this body, if I can help it, until I have that information. That is just the way it is. That is the position I have taken. Again, that is my right to do so and that is the right of any one of my colleagues in this situation.
We are spending an awful lot of time here, way too much time, on this matter, given what is going on in the country today. We ought to be setting this nomination aside, giving the nominee the opportunity to present in writing the information we have requested. Either do so or not. We can assess it accordingly. We ought to turn the attention of this body to matters that, when I was in Minnesota last week, certainly concerned every one of the citizens I talked and listened to. It was not the nomination of Miguel Estrada, important as that is. It is about the war in Iraq that is looming. It is people's fears of whether we were going in; what is the right thing to do. The fact that the week before they were told to go out and buy plastic and duct tape, go out and buy bottled water and food. They are not very reassured in Minnesota about the ability of their Government to protect them. They are not really sure.
I must say, based on information I have received, what I have heard expressed from local law enforcement officials in Minnesota, that what we passed in Congress has not gotten out to these first responders—resources, training, information.
I had the sheriff of the largest county in Minnesota, Hennepin County, in my office today. He cannot get information about what happened with the raising of the national security alert. He said he found out about it on CNN. He is a sheriff. He is part of the network of emergency responders for the city of Minneapolis, the largest city, largest county. He does not have any source of information from the Federal Government to tell him even that such a code has been established, much less what the reasons are, much less what some of the circumstances might be.
He said he tried to find out from the FBI, with which he has a very good working relationship, what the circumstances were. They didn't know either. They hadn't gotten any prior word. That certainly astonished me.
On the Governmental Affairs Committee and I sat through the hearings where this was being discussed. It was my clear understanding that the new Department of Homeland Security was going to be in constant communication with the FBI and CIA, that information was going to be shared, and they would all have that information. I also understood, because we certainly provided the funding and we certainly made it clear in the hearings on the floor that we intended for that Department to be communicating, providing resources, providing training, providing expertise and getting that out to the Hennepin counties of Minnesota—and America.
Lo and behold, he doesn't know. The FBI district office in Minneapolis, MN, doesn't know. So he is watching CNN. He was not very confident about how well this administration has done its job to get this country prepared for what may lie ahead.
The citizens of Minnesota, as I said, are certainly alarmed. I believe they have an absolute right to expect that this body, this institution of the Senate would be turning its attention to these matters of concern.
So I say again, respectfully, to the majority leader, the time has come to set this nomination aside to give Mr. Estrada the opportunity to respond in writing to the questions which I and others have said clearly, again and again, we must have answered to make an informed judgment, which is my constitutional obligation to the country and to the Minnesota people who elected me. I don't think that is much to ask at all. Anyway, it is what I am going to ask and require before I am going to proceed.
Then I ask the majority leader, as I wrote 2 weeks ago in a letter, that I and the rest of us turn our attention on this Senate floor to these matters of war and peace, whether the United States of America is going to commit itself to an invasion of another country, a preemptive strike, something that is going to have profound consequences for our country—for our world for years to come.
Our silence here, as again the distinguished senior Senator from West Virginia, Mr. Byrd, said the other day, is just profoundly deafening, the silence here in the Senate, the absence of debate, the absence of 100 different views on what we are doing, what we propose to do, what might we do.
Of course the real tragedy, in my view, and the real embarrassment to this institution, great as it is, and to the House of Representatives, is that this document, the Constitution of the United States, states very clearly and definitively that Congress and only Congress shall declare war. Not the President. No one else. Just Congress.
This was very clearly the intention of those who drafted the Constitution, whose wisdom and foresight is something I find unbelievable, that a group of people back over 200 years ago could have, on their first attempt—not that they didn't have drafts, but that they could put together a document that would be as brilliantly foresighted as this turned out to be, and anticipatory of just these kinds of matters: Where the temptation is to let it go somewhere else; where the pressures are from some person or groups of people to forget something or overlook something or circumvent something. They made the President of the United States the Commander in Chief of all the Armed Forces—back then of the militia. For that very reason they didn't want him, they didn't want any one person—it is not just this President; it is any President—they didn't want that one person making the decision to commit this Nation to war or keep us in peace. Boy, were they ever right. Did they ever understand why that should be a decision made by an elected group such as the Congress.
We didn't declare war back in October. The President was not at that point himself—and I gather not even today is it appropriate—ready to make that final, fateful decision. That was 4 months ago, before we even got to this point. We didn't declare war. What we said is we will give the President the authority to do whatever he determines needs to be done, including the use of force. That is one of those euphemisms we use to hide our true intent, which means if he wants to have a war, he starts one. We will preapprove it and he can proceed. That is not anywhere near what the Constitution says, nor what was intended it say, nor how it was intended to be followed.
Before this Nation is committed to a war, before American men and women are sent across our border to fight and some of them to die, before possibly people in this country might suffer those grotesque experiences, they have the right that their elected officials will give this matter their most serious consideration for a length of time that is appropriate. It will not take as long as has the squabble over Mr. Estrada, but it ought to take a while, because this decision is profound.
The fact that we are here on the Senate floor now, the third day we are back from our recess—the fact we had a recess at all last week rather than being here debating these issues of war and peace—the fact that we are doing something now that, as I said earlier, has its own significance, has its own place, but pales in comparison with war and peace and the enormity of those decisions about the preparation of the country and the Department of Homeland Security, the preparedness of this Government to protect all of its citizens—those are the matters that concern the people of Minnesota almost to the exclusion of anything else; even to the exclusion of the problems with the economy with all those difficulties. Those are the matters which we should be reviewing on the Senate floor.
If the President believes we should commit our forces to invade another country, to launch a preemptive attack, to start a war against another country—which is almost unprecedented in our Nation's history, and is certainly unprecedented in the context of leaping forward to cut off a threat which is not imminent, not immediate, but rather one which we believe would materialize, and probably would if certain lines were crossed, to remove the Government, the leader of another country—these are decisions which are so enormous in their scope immediately and which are going to have such consequence for this world for decades to follow that it is wrong for us to turn the other way, for us to refuse to fulfill our constitutional responsibility. What we should do is bring these matters to the Senate floor and say, Mr. President, that was the 107th Congress, this is the 108th Congress, we are a different body, we want to recertify that constitutional responsibility that Congress and only Congress shall declare war.
No President is authorized by the Constitution to commit any forces in such a way until that decision has been made and voted on by the Congress. That is what we ought to be doing here. The American people have a right. They elected us, and they sent us here, and they expect no less of us and will hold us in the highest reproach if we fail to fulfill that responsibility, if we fail to even bring the matter up, or if we fail to direct our attention and declare ourselves one after another on the record for or against. We owe that to the people who founded this country, who sustained this document—many at the cost of their own lives. We owe that to the courageous Americans—men and women—who are amassed on the borders halfway around the world who will have to carry out that decision, if it is made, to proceed to fight. Some will be wounded and maimed. Some will lose their lives because of that decision.
We owe them nothing less than to fulfill our responsibility here in the Senate at this time or as soon as the President determines that matter should be brought to our attention.
Two weeks ago, think of what we went through. Our citizens were told to go out and buy duct tape and plastic sheets and not even told really what to do with them. In Minnesota, we are well aware of that. We are a cold-weather State. We have quite a bit of experience putting up plastic sheeting and filling up drafts around doors and windows. It is not something you can do lightly. You can increase the concentration of radon in the rooms by closing them up too tightly. The information wasn't even in necessarily the best interests and the best health of people who would be doing it. They are entitled to a lot more from their Government than that. They are entitled to know a lot more than to go out and get bottled water or canned food and duct tape and plastic sheets, and, good luck and God help us. They deserve a lot more than that. That is why on the floor of the Senate we should be bringing up homeland security and discussing what more needs to be done and the resources that are needed.
I want to bring forth the voice of the sheriff of Hennepin County, MN, and his concerns. I want to know why he wasn't told the country was going through the second highest security level and why he had to find out about it from television rather than from the Department of Homeland Security which was established by this body to provide that kind of information—supposedly provide that kind of coordination, services, and resources. God forbid that something would happen to Hennepin County and they wouldn't have the benefit of that information; they would not know what to expect, what it might be, where it would be coming from.
These are critical life-and-death responsibilities that I know the Federal Government and Secretary Ridge take very seriously. I have nothing but the highest respect and regard for him and the monumental task he is undertaking. I hold nothing but the highest respect for the sheriff of Hennepin County. The two of them ought to be working and coordinating. The sheriff ought to have the resources we provided last August in this body. It was vetoed by the President. There is more forthcoming from the 2003 appropriations. We want to make sure that those resources are getting out to local government first responders all over the United States of America so that they have that ability to train, to prepare, and to be equipped to respond as much as possible.
Again, we hope and pray it will never happen. But if it should happen, they will have to be brought into action. Every second is going to count. Every person is going to have to make the right decision. Life depends on how well we help them be prepared.
I commend the majority leader's request that this nomination of Mr. Estrada be set aside and that he be given the time and the opportunity to respond in writing to the questions of those of us who do not have the information that we believe we need to make the decision—that he provide that information to us; that we take a period of time then to focus on what is a life-and-death and most urgent concern of every citizen in Minnesota whom I met with and heard from last week. Even if there was another topic of conversation, they wanted to know about Iraq. They wanted to express their own views and own concerns. They see us on C-SPAN doing nothing but talking about the nomination, and the same the next night and the next night.
I shudder to think what they must think about our sensibilities and our priorities. It is wrong. We owe it to those citizens to do our best in everything we stand for to bring this body back to focusing on the most critical time of our Nation—the pending war, the decision there, the responsibility of the Congress to declare war. And only Congress can declare war. Those of us who voted for resolution last fall abdicated to the President. It doesn't absolve our responsibility and what we must do now to stand up and take that responsibility back and make that decision and be held accountable by the people of America.
I yield the floor.
