Public Statements
Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing on the DOD Budget
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 25, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE HOLDS A HEARING ON THE DOD BUDGET
DAYTON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
General Shinseki, again, I want to thank you also for your distinguished service, and recall that when I attended this hearing two years ago and each of you were asked—and this was my first time—and hearing you express your own views directly to this committee regardless of other considerations and pressures, you indicated so, as others did, as well. And I certainly, subsequent years, especially last year, had the chance to see how vital that is and how courageous at times it requires someone to be, and I want to thank you specifically for that.
I want to follow up on Senator Inhofe's question a little more regarding the N-LOS Cannon System. What specifically is in the '04 request for that? What components are there of that development. Are those locked into '04? And then, are we set up now step-by-step? You said '08 is the expected deployment.
SHINSEKI: Well, as you know, Senator, we took the moneys that were available coming out of the Crusader program, focused it into the non-line of sight cannon. This Congress added additional moneys to ensure that development would be visible and continue, and that's all on track.
This year, in the '04 budget, we've taken that non-line of sight cannon program element, which was a separate element, put it together with future combat systems overall—those vehicles—because it's thought that this non-line of sight cannon will provide us the common chassis on which all the other systems would ride, and we watch that very closely. That's addressed in the budget.
DAYTON: Thank you.
One question that I'll ask each of you in turn, and maybe we'll start with you, General Shinseki, again.
As I looked at the budget proposal for the five out-years, it's basically—you have take the DOD component, 051, this year, coming to fiscal year -- $379.9 billion. And then for each of the next five years is basically $20 billion, give or take a tiny fraction. It's about a 5 percent increase initially, about 4 percent at the end.
So if we spend increment of funding over the course of the plan that you've laid out here, what in FY'09 will be the major developments or improvements or next steps forward in your respective service areas? And does that progression reflect your own priorities, your own view of what we most importantly need to do to be ready to fight whatever we're going to fight in '09, sir?
SHINSEKI: If you look out to the Army's extended—beyond the '04 budget—'04 to '09 -- you'll see that the moneys generated future combat systems, that new capability that we're looking at in the year '10, that we'll begin to field that in year '08 in small increments, and the first brigade-size element in year '10. So future combat system, precision munitions, sensors and communications—what lashes this together is the C4ISR, if you will, the ability to link all of these capabilities.
Additionally, there's input into missile and air defense technology, a significant investment of about $1 billion, science and technology, $1 billion, as well. So these are the major categories that in year '10 you will have seen us accomplish.
DAYTON: Thank you.
Admiral?
CLARK: Senator, the improvements—the major issues for us is recapitalization of the existing force and then moving forward with transformation. I've testified before this committee in previous years over the challenges that I face in that recapitalization issue and that I needed $12 billion a year in my SAN account, for example, and I haven't had it.
As I move toward the out years and what we'd be doing—what we needed to do—we are doing everything we can to turn dollars into investment into the future, for recapitalization, modernization and transformation. I'm encouraged by the out years. It's easy to see the improvement in the out years, but we have moved the budget in a way that it puts the kind of resources in the ship construction account, that puts the kind of resources into the transformation we need in the aviation side of the house.
For example, General Jumper and I are working, and you don't see this yet, but we're working to—and this will be reflected in future budgets—and how we can team to make the unmanned combat air vehicles, how we can team to get there quicker. I absolutely see the kind of transformational things that we need in the future, as well as the number of ships that we need to build so that we can recapitalize for the first half of the 21st century.
DAYTON: Thank you.
General?
HAGEE: Some of those transformational items that the CNO just talked about, as far as the Marine Corps is concerned, would be the advanced assault amphibian vehicle.
HAGEE: In '09 we're going to start seeing the—I believe the joint strike fighter coming off, tilt rotor technology, which right now is doing very well in the testing. We will see that technology available. We will be in the middle of our upgrade of our Huey and Cobra to a four-rotor blade on each one of those helicopters. We will have, I think, a way ahead on the replacement for the LHA. We will also have a way ahead for the replacement for our maritime prepositioning force, and I think that we'll see some of the first littoral combat ships.
DAYTON: Thank you.
JUMPER: Sir, I think that we will begin to see Secretary Rumsfeld's initiatives in transformational acquisition start to come into fruition. Where we streamline processes we get the operational community and the acquisition community and the scientific community together during the development of programs and we start to get things out much, much quicker to the field.
As far as the Air Force is concerned, I think you're going to see an increase in our ability to talk directly between space platforms, air, land and sea platforms so that we can get the machine-to-machine interfaces that right now go through tribal communities and analog eyeballs in order to interpret results. I think we'll see a great up- tick in our ability to network. I call it the cursor over the target; the sum of the wisdom of all of our systems talking to one another equals a cursor over the target that we can act on immediately.
And I think that we'll see great improvements in our ability to deal with future threats, such as cruise missiles, which is a big worry of mine, and mobile targets in and under the weather, in and under camouflage, being able to work with Rick Shinseki's concept of operations to help our folks on the ground.
All these things; the next generation of long-range strike technology, whether it's a bomber or it's in orbit or from orbit or through orbit, there are going to be questions we're going to be asking over the coming months to get prepared for future budgets.
DAYTON: Thank you.
My time is expired, but it seems to me, Mr. Chairman, that the critical function we provide is to make sure you have the resources you need. And so, I would say if there's anything that's not in this, especially these out years, that you think is either not included that should be or is underfunded, I'd appreciate getting that in writing the next month or so.
But I thank you all, and Mr. Chairman, my time's expired.
