Public Statements
Senate Armed Services Committee Holds Hearing on FY2004 Defense Authorization
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 13, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

DAYTON:
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Secretary, there's a perilous irony to the fact that we're talking here about the $400 billion expenditure for the most overwhelming military force that the world has ever known, and at the same time we're telling our citizens to go out and get duct tape and plastic wrap and water. And you said yourself, sir, today that this is the most dangerous security environment the world has ever known.
It is my view the ominous forewarnings of condition orange affirm what Robert Kennedy said after the Cuban missile crisis, quote, "No action is taken against an adversary in a vacuum. Escalation on one side brings a counter-response. A government or people will fail to understand that it's only at their great peril."
It seems to be that the last 55 years our leaders have understood that. Both Republican and Democratic presidents also faced dangerous dictators who had weapon of mass destruction. They headed countries that were hostile to the United States, former Soviet Union, China, North Korea. But none of those presidents attacked those countries to eliminate that threat, and the threat was on-going and was dealt with and contained diplomatically, and the peace and the security of this nation were preserved.
And the principal reason I believe that they didn't do so was because of mutual assured destruction, because we knew that their country could inflict destruction on our citizens, our countryside, our cities, that was intolerable to us, just as we could annihilate them.
And I guess my question, sir, is, you know, why would we expect that Iraq will be any different? If United States invades that country, is destroying their cities, their citizens, causing casualties among their citizens, why won't we expect that they will retaliate within the United States with every destructive force that they can marshal? And why wouldn't we expect that Osama bin Laden would do his utmost to exploit that situation and to twist it in the eyes of the world to be seen as something different from what it is?
