Public Statements
Letter to President About Emergency Agriculture Disaster Assistance
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 11, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Dear Mr. President:
We understand that you oppose Emergency Agriculture Disaster Assistance in the FY 2003 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, unless it is offset with reductions in other agriculture programs. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated reduced
Farm Bill spending of nearly $6 billion compared to its original score of that legislation as a result of improved commodity prices. We wish to make clear that we firmly oppose requiring offsets for emergency disaster assistance, and we believe it sets a dangerous precedent for those who suffer future natural disasters. However, since you are insisting on an offset, we ask that you instruct the Office of Management and Budget to consider the reduction in Farm Bill spending to date as a valid offset meeting your requirement.
These savings would provide much more than the $3 billion for disaster aid in the Senate-passed bill, which is less than half the amount USDA has determined is needed to compensate qualifying losses in 2001 and 2002, using the customary disaster assistance formulas.
Without a helping hand, many farmers will be forced out of business and off their land, adding to the devastation in parts of rural America. Additionally, this financial assistance provides an excellent and immediate economic stimulus nationwide. Almost every dollar that hard-pressed farmers receive will be spent immediately on goods and services for this year's production. Most is spent in local businesses, which spurs their sales and employment. It has been estimated that every dollar of agriculture income is spent four times locally, twice regionally, and once nationally. This "multiplier effect" makes disaster aid one of the best available economic stimulus measures.
For all of these reasons, we respectfully urge your support for adequate disaster assistance and a reasonable approach to your requirement for a budgetary offset.
Sincerely,
Mark Dayton
Tom Harkin
Ben Nelson
