Public Statements
Senator Dayton's Response to Powell U.N. Speech
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 5, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Dayton Response to Powell U.N. Speech
February 5, 2003
WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Mark Dayton today released the following statement in response to Secretary of State Colin Powell's presentation to the United Nations Security Counsel regarding weapons of mass destruction in Iraq:
"I think Colin Powell made the case that Saddam Hussein is hiding weapons of mass destruction, which should come as no surprise given the volume that he had five years ago when weapons inspectors left.
"The case that needs to be made by the administration to the people of this country and to the world is why we would be better off with a war than with pursuing a peaceful resolution. That is the national debate that we should be having now. Unfortunately, Congress has taken itself out of that debate. According to the Constitution, Congress is the only power that can declare war. Congress opted out of that power last fall by giving it entirely to President Bush. It was a tragic mistake which I voted against, but here we are sitting on the sidelines, devoid of any responsibility, when we should be engaged in a debate about whether war is in the best interest of our national security now and into the future.
"I think we would be well advised to act with other nations. I don't think we should be dictated to by other nations, but I think if we're seen as the provocateur attacking an Arab country by ourselves, there would be dangerous consequences for our own safety. I am very concerned about the possibility of retaliation by Iraq against our cities and our citizens if we were to engage militarily in their country.
"I think it behooves us to act in concert with other nations. Hopefully, the whole world will be united in telling Saddam Hussein he must disarm and cease and desist from the acquisition of any nuclear warheads or long-range missiles, which is really what I think constitutes the threat to the United States in the future."
