Public Statements
Floor Statement on Devil's Lake
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 23, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

On Devils Lake
January 23, 2003
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from Minnesota for taking on so many of the responsibilities here, and for his involvement in the balance of our portfolios in Minnesota. I welcome the Chair.
I don't like to disagree with my colleagues from North Dakota. We have an excellent working relationship. In fact, our two States—other than fighting over hockey players—generally get along pretty well on everything else, and particularly on this matter related to the water management. We have worked cooperatively on water problems in most cases over the last couple of decades because it is absolutely necessary to get something accomplished. Minnesota shouldn't be foisting problems on North Dakota that are not of its creation and that exacerbate their situation. We in Minnesota would ask the same of our friends across the border in North Dakota. In this case, that is exactly what would happen.
I am very disappointed that my colleagues from North Dakota have chosen to try to insert this funding into the appropriations bill authorizing a $100 million project that I am told did not go before the Senate committees. It hasn't had that review. It hasn't gone through the normal Senate process. It has been instead snuck into this measure.
I thank the distinguished Senator from Arizona, Mr. McCain, for his vigilance in this matter. I am going to read bills as carefully and as thoroughly as the Senator from Arizona does because he does a phenomenal job at identifying these attempts to circumvent our Senate process.
In 1999--this preceded my time in the Senate—according to the record, the States of Minnesota and North Dakota, along with the Canadian Government, which may not have been in complete accord, worked out language that was reflected in the 1999 bill which set forth basic procedures that would have to be followed before this project could move forward.
That language says very specifically, among other things, that the economic justification for this emergency outlet shall be prepared in accordance with the principles and guidelines for economic evaluation as required by regulations and procedures of the Army Corps of Engineers for all flood projects.
I am told the project itself does not meet those requirements. Minnesota projects have been turned down by the Army Corps of Engineers because of the cost-benefit analysis. The costs exceed the benefits. In this area, we were told that the project would have a cost benefit of 0.37 percent. According to the EPA, that is an understatement because it fails to take into account the environmental damage that would ensue.
The solution, according to my colleagues, is to waive that requirement and have them report on a cost-benefit analysis but not have to apply the same standard or measure that is applied to the other projects in Minnesota and other States across the country, which would circumvent the will of the Congress in terms of how these projects are managed, and to make it consistent across the Nation.
The funding would then allow water to be diverted initially to North Dakota but then into the Red River, which is the common boundary between Minnesota and North Dakota, and within the site of severe flooding in recent years, which included cites that are on the Minnesota and North Dakota border. But also, then, at the very northern part, as we border Canada, the river diverts from North Dakota—the Rainy River—and runs across our northern border.
I wish I could show my colleagues this picture. It is of this last summer, the flooding that occurred in Roseau, MN. The entire city was under water—everything except the Polaris manufacturing plant, which employs 1,800 people in the northwestern corner of our State. If that had been flooded, the company's loss would have been just so devastating to the region; its cost is almost incalculable. It was within half an inch of flooding entirely and only because the entire city gave up on their homes and went to sandbags. Just down the river in, Warroad, MN, the dikes were an inch from overflowing and flooding the entire city.
So anything that would divert water from anywhere else and put that water downstream into Minnesota poses a grave risk to our State. That is the reason our Department of Natural Resources has opposed it, along with local officials throughout Minnesota.
There are also concerns about the effect in terms of the solidity of the water in Devils Lake. Because of its own problems, it is much different in quality and characteristic from water elsewhere.
So, again, they are going to solve their problem by passing it on to us. I think, again, this is grotesquely unfair and unwarranted.
This project is opposed by not only the State of Minnesota but by the Environmental Protection Agency. We have castigated EPA recently—some of us—in some of their decisions. In this case, EPA stands four square with the environmental organizations in opposing this project.
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife oppose it. The State of Minnesota, the Canadian Government, the Great Lakes Commission, Taxpayers for Common Sense, the National Wildlife Federation, Minnesota Conservation Federation, the Minnesota Center for Environmental Advocacy—just about everybody opposes it except for North Dakota. I understand the reasons that the North Dakota Senators would want to accomplish this project but not at Minnesota's expense, not at the violation of our procedures here, not at the circumvention of the way we send legislation through our committees and the governmental relations we have between North Dakota and Minnesota and Canada.
We are attempting to work constructively to solve these problems. This is not the way to do that. I urge my colleagues to oppose this measure.
I also point out that the Army Corps of Engineers, which is the very entity that would be carrying out this project, itself has indicated that it would not favor proceeding at this time. It was, I expect, the decision of the Chief of Engineers, Robert Flowers, of the Army Corps of Engineers, in August of last year, who announced he would not approve the environmental impact statement because the Corps had not given adequate consideration to the project's potential for serious
environmental damage. He recommended that the International Joint Commission be given the opportunity to examine the report.
That unwillingness to proceed—again, a federal government agency doing its job properly, as instructed by the rules and regulations of laws passed by Congress and the rules and regulations that itself promulgated—brought this project to a halt.
So now we are going to circumvent that entire professional judgment here in the Senate.
Mr. President, I conclude my remarks at this point, but I ask for the yeas and nays on this amendment
