Public Statements
Amendment No. 80
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 21, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

AMENDMENT NO. 80
Mr. DAYTON. President Bush's announced tax proposal expressed concern over the double taxation of corporate profits. I wish he would express an equal concern about the nontaxation of corporate profits.
It is estimated that currently less than half of corporate profits are taxed in this country. There are various tax and accounting gimmicks that have permitted very profitable companies to not only have no tax liabilities but even receive multimillion-dollar refunds from the American taxpayers.
Take CSX, for example, which until recently has been headed by the President's nominee for Secretary of the Treasury, John Snow. In the last 4 years, CSX reported U.S. profits of $934 billion, and they paid zero in U.S. corporate taxes. In fact, they received rebates of $164 billion.
I will repeat that. They made $934 billion in U.S. profits, paid no taxes, and received a $164 billion refund. That is certainly not double taxation. That is not even single taxation. That is no taxation, and it is a bigger winner on Wall Street to inflate corporate profits at the expense of the rest of American taxpayers. It is one of the reasons corporate income tax has been a declining share of Federal tax revenues in the last 40 years. In 1960, corporations paid 23 percent of all Federal tax revenues. Last year, that dropped to 9.5 percent, less than half of the share that corporations paid 40 years ago.
It used to be the ethic that business, being an integral part of the communities in which they operated, drawing their lifeblood from the American people and from the democratic and capitalist structures which hallmark this country, had an obligation to give something back. Not any longer.
An Ernst & Young partner recently noted:
A lot of companies feel that the improvement on earnings is powerful enough that maybe the patriotism issue should take a back seat.
One of the most outrageous and obscene tax avoidance schemes is many United States companies are setting up sham corporate headquarters offshore in places such as Bermuda or the Cayman Islands. These tax-free havens permit the total avoidance of U.S. taxes on foreign operations and, in some cases, on domestic operations as well.
In the nonpartisan journal, Tax Notes, a recent calculation was made that from 1983 to 1999 the profits that the largest 10,000 U.S. corporations claimed to have earned in these tax havens increased by over 7 times. Today, that means well over $100 billion in corporate profits are shifted each year from the United States to these tax-free havens—no taxes paid on them and, as I have said before, sometimes even refunds. It is bad enough those companies can evade U.S. taxes but some even continue to secure very large and lucrative contracts with the Federal Government, even in the areas of national defense and homeland security. Evidently these corporations—the executives who run them, the boards that oversee them—see nothing wrong with profiting off of the U.S. Government and then avoiding paying taxes on even those profits in order to support our Government.
That is why last summer my colleague, Senator Paul Wellstone, had amended the 2002 Defense appropriations bill to bar such corporate tax dodgers from being awarded Government defense contracts. Then he successfully had amended the homeland security bill to bar those companies from getting contracts with the new Department of Homeland Security. Both of those amendments passed the Senate seemingly unanimously on voice votes.
However, after the November election, and after Paul Wellstone's tragic death, the final version of the homeland security bill gutted the Wellstone amendment. Senator Wellstone's amendment, which he crafted with the cosponsorship of the distinguished Senator from Nevada, Mr. Reid, provided a narrow exception to this prohibition. That was if the President of the United States certified to Congress that it would be necessary for our national security.
When the bill came back this provision was gutted and the substitution made known to those who had to vote on it that day. They stuck in language that would allow the Secretary of Homeland Security to grant waivers for national security or economic benefits. Just about any kind of economic benefit whatever could be waived and argued by the Secretary: preventing loss of Government, preventing the Government from incurring any additional costs, anything and everything that you could contrive, you could avoid if you could pay a high-priced Washington lobbyist $1,000 an hour or more, euphemistically called government relations. No doubt those waivers would be granted and the legacy of my colleague, Senator Paul Wellstone, would be obliterated by waves of waivers, which is why we need more Paul Wellstones in Washington.
To honor Senator Wellstone's memory, I proposed this amendment, which I called the Senator Paul Wellstone corporate patriotism amendment. It reinstates the Wellstone language to the Homeland Security Act. It says, once again, corporations that renounce their American citizenship and have moved offshore to avoid paying taxes to the U.S. Government will not get business contracts from the Government, at least not for homeland security projects.
My language makes it as forceful and explicit as possible. It states that the President may waive subsection (A) of the prohibition if the President certifies the waiver is essential to national security.
Frankly, I cannot see any reason there should be waivers granted in this section. That is the least we can do for the memory of Paul Wellstone. That is the least we can do for our country.
Frankly, most U.S. corporations, as most American citizens, are law abiding, patriotic, responsible, and willing to do their job, including pay taxes, to keep this country strong. No one likes paying taxes. Americans have been antitaxation since colonial days, since the Boston Tea Party, since the rallying cry, "taxation without representation is tyranny."
But taxes are necessary for our country's survival. We have increased our military spending by 23 percent in the last 2 years, with bipartisan support regarding the President's request, and we have new efforts underway in homeland security costing an additional $37 million. Some Members last week thought we should be spending even more in that area. We have Operation Enduring Freedom still underway in Afghanistan and a military buildup now for possible war against Iraq. That has to be paid for with our tax dollars. It does not include highways and airports, sewer water systems, public education, student aid, health care, nursing homes. This always depends, again, on Americans paying taxes. It ought to depend on everyone paying their fair share of taxes—individuals and corporations.
When someone avoids paying their fair share, then everyone else has to pay a higher share. When one corporation making profits can shift its profits overseas and avoid paying taxes, everyone else has to pick up that part.
I wish we could establish again in this country the ethic that tax avoidance is unpatriotic. It is un-American, especially at a time such as this with national mobilization, especially in this country since September 11 of 2001, which is likely to continue for the foreseeable future. If the executives and board members of these expatriated companies can so shamelessly abandon their U.S. corporate citizenship, maybe they should forfeit their citizenship as well. I intend to introduce legislation in the next few weeks that would require just that. What is good for the goose is good for the gander. This tax cheating will destroy the great golden goose of America. We send our young men and women overseas to risk their lives or even give their lives for our country, while men—mostly men and a few women—send their corporations overseas to evade taxes. What a disgrace. What a shame that the greatness of this country is being undermined by placing profits and corporate and individual greed over the best interests of the United States of America.
This amendment meant a lot to my friend and colleague, Senator Wellstone. He was surprised but delighted that the Senate, on two occasions, passed this amendment by a voice vote. Had Paul lived, I would have enjoyed watching the fur fly that day in November when this bill came back to the Senate with this provision gutted. But Paul is not here, so it is incumbent upon all of us to take that stand for him and with him. If it was good enough last year to be passed by the Senate, I cannot imagine why anyone who supported it then would change their mind now. In fact, there is even more reason than before to stand behind America, stand behind the belief that we all contribute our share, do our share, and no one avoids their share. That is what makes us successful.
Mr. DAYTON. The Senator is absolutely correct about the price we pay when these companies avoid their share of taxes. The Tax Notes journal estimated over $100 billion in corporate profits now go untaxed because of these offshore tax evasions. Even 20 percent, the tax rate on that, which is below the corporate rate but after deductions and exclusions probably is close to what tax-paying corporations pay, that would cover the cost of the 40-percent funding for special education that Senator Dodd was discussing with Senator Gregg a few minutes ago. There it would be right there. We could keep that promise to Minnesota's schoolchildren, Nevada's schoolchildren, and all the schoolchildren in the school districts across this country. It would not require raising anybody's taxes by a single dollar, if those who were evading them would pay their share.
I think it is shameful. I think it is un-American, unpatriotic, and it ought to be illegal. I particularly look forward to a discussion at some point, as I said, about legislation I intend to introduce that says if corporate executives and corporate boards are going to send these corporations overseas, they should go overseas themselves. If they think it is such an advantage to be in the Cayman Islands or Bermuda they should go live there themselves. If they are going to renounce their corporate citizenship, let them renounce their own citizenship as well, and they will suffer the consequences maybe then they will stop and think about how fortunate we are to live in this country and how it is only by all of us doing our fair share that this country keeps strong and secure.
Mr. DAYTON. As the Senator knows, a lot of small- and medium-sized businesses don't have the options. Certainly the average American citizen paying taxes doesn't have the option to move to Bermuda or the Cayman Islands and not claim any tax liability whatsoever. It is shameful that those most profitable that can most easily afford to pay their share are avoiding them entirely and dumping that burden on everyone else.
As the Senator said, this would be one small step in the right direction of returning to an ethic where those who are making profits pay their taxes. If we all do that in a fair way, then everybody's taxes go down. If somebody is avoiding taxes, then somebody else's taxes go up.
I thank the Senator again for his support and assistance with this matter. I know in this matter that Senator Paul Wellstone could not have stood alone last year, and the Senator from Nevada was with him shoulder to shoulder every step of the way.
I thank the Chair.
