Public Statements
Senator Dayton Unveils Three-Part Farm Package
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 14, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Dayton Unveils Three-Part Farm Package
January 14, 2003
WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Mark Dayton today introduced a legislative agriculture package that will provide emergency assistance to farmers hit by disasters in Minnesota and nationwide in 2001 and 2002, encourage the increased production and use of renewable fuels, including soydiesel and ethanol, and stop importers of foreign dairy products from circumventing U.S. trade laws. Today's introduction is part of Senator Dayton's initiative to introduce ten bills in ten days.
Dayton released the following statement about the legislation:
"I am introducing this agriculture package today to help farmers in Minnesota and across the nation compete and thrive in an increasingly competitive world market. The agriculture disaster aid component of my bill will provide help to producers who were devastated by flooding and drought the past two years. Although the administration has consistently fought this legislation, we'll continue to work with the President in hopes he will reconsider his opposition and get our farmers the help they so desperately need.
"I also want to ensure that renewable fuels play a key role in our nation's agriculture and energy policy. Increasing production and use of ethanol and soydiesel, as this bill does, will help decrease U.S. dependence on foreign oil and greatly help the farm economy. In addition, ethanol and soydiesel are environmentally sound resources that will reduce emissions from motor fuels.
"Finally, we cannot continue to allow unfair foreign imports to circumvent our trade laws and hurt our dairy farmers. These unfair imports take advantage of a loophole that is costing our dairy producers dearly each year, and which can be closed by passing this legislation."
The following are descriptions of each of Dayton's initiatives:
Agriculture Disaster Assistance - Provides $5.95 billion to aid farmers and producers in Minnesota and across the nation who have been affected by a natural disaster, including those in the 19 Northwest Minnesota counties hit last summer by severe flooding. The legislation was passed by the Senate last year but derailed due to opposition from the Administration.
Renewable Fuels - 1) Soydiesel Tax Credit: Provides a tax credit to reduce the diesel fuel excise tax for manufacturers who produce fuel made with soybean additives. The bill would provide a 3-cents-per-gallon credit to diesel fuel suppliers using fuel containing 2 percent soydiesel, and a 20-cents-per-gallon credit for fuels containing 20 percent soydiesel. This soydiesel tax credit is similar to the current tax incentives for corn-based ethanol and would promote a number of energy, environmental and economic public policy goals.
2) Federal Fleet: Requires federal vehicles to use 10 percent ethanol-blended gasoline wherever available, and requires federal agencies with centrally-fueled fleets to use at least a 2 percent soy-diesel blend (B2 or higher) in their diesel fuel by 2007, and a 20 percent soy-diesel blend (B20) by 2012. Both measures, if passed, will reduce U.S. reliance on foreign oil, boost farm price by increasing demand for corn and soybeans, and provide environmental benefits through cleaner-burning fuel.
Milk Protein Concentrate - Seeks to stop the flow of certain dairy products that have been slightly altered to get around U.S. tariff quotas. Currently, milk protein concentrate (MPC) is not subject to the same quotas required of other dairy products. Foreign exporters have begun exploiting this loophole by blending previously processed dairy proteins, such as casein and whey, with nonfat dry milk to boost its protein content so that it qualifies as milk protein concentrate. The resulting dairy blends are being imported into the U.S. market in ever-increasing amounts, displacing sales of domestic dairy products and lowering prices for U.S. dairy farmers.
