Public Statements
Committee Assignments
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 14, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I was listening with some amazement to the discussion last night and earlier today about the reorganization, who is to blame, and who has the interests of the American people at heart. I have been kind of astonished at the reworking of the present reality and the past history by my Republican colleagues.
I am reminded that when I arrived at the Senate 2 years ago, I waited for 5 weeks to receive my committee assignments. We had, as others have said, a 50-50 split then, and the Republicans, because of the Vice President, had the majority. But it was unprecedented. So there was some reason for this delay. But then when Senator Jeffords moved over to caucus with our party in June of that year, I lost my committee assignments for the next 6 weeks while once again this agreement was negotiated.
Contrary to what I have heard from others across the aisle, it is my understanding that an agreement was reached for when the Senate was 50-50, and we had a provision that the agreement would end if and when the majority in the Senate moved to one side—not that it would remain the same for that entire session of Congress.
I had no committee assignments for 6 weeks while this split of 51 to 49 was being renegotiated, despite years of precedence and how we were told the Senate should be organized and how funds were distributed when the Senate was in clear majority by one side or another.
Those who are today shedding crocodile tears for their colleagues who are denied committee assignments certainly were not at all visible 2 years ago when I was waiting for those 6 weeks for my committee assignments to be reinstated.
I don't propose that our side should act as irresponsibly as others did 2 years ago. In fact, I am told that many of the chairs and ranking members of the various committees, as they will be reestablished under Republican leadership, have already reached their agreement about how they are going to allocate funds—either 50-50 or 60-40—along the lines of what they agreed to 2 years ago. It seems to me that those who are able to behave responsibly have already come to their own agreements regarding their committees and what we are left with are those who are holding out with insistence that they are going to have their two-thirds share.
I am reminded of my mother, when I was a child growing up with my brother and sisters, who said when we were squabbling over who was going to get this or that: Well, until you can work it out among yourselves, none of you will have it. It was amazing how, back then, it was possible for my brother and sisters at very young ages to work these things out, knowing that until we got it resolved, none of us could have what we wanted. So I think that would be a good admonition for my colleagues who are complaining today about the lack of organization.
I am reminded also that when we arrived here a week ago, our new colleagues were sworn in and the next day the Republican caucus wanted to adjourn to have a conference. In fact, we on the Democrat side wanted to stay in session. Senator Clinton had an amendment to reinstate unemployment benefits for those who lost them in December. We asked for 30 minutes equally divided to debate that amendment and to have a vote. We were told we couldn't have that; there was not time. The Senate was adjourning to the next day so the Republican caucus could go out and have their conference.
We came back on Thursday. The Republican leader—the majority leader, now acknowledged by everybody and recognized as representing the majority caucus, the Republican caucus—told us on Thursday afternoon that there would be no votes on Friday, no votes until Monday at 5 o'clock. We had a long 4-day weekend and came back. I came back yesterday. I understood that we were going to have a hearing this morning—right at this hour, in fact—to confirm the nomination in the Governmental Affairs Committee of Governor Ridge as the new Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security.
I met last week with Governor Ridge. I told him he had my support. I met with the Secretary of the Navy last week, Mr. England, who will be the Deputy Secretary. I said I hoped we would have a hearing this week on his nomination, as well, so we could pass that—I expect virtually unanimously, or if not unanimously, on a bipartisan basis.
Yesterday afternoon, I was told that the committee meeting for today had been canceled—not by the Democrats, who were fully prepared to convene today, but by our Republican colleagues from each State who in turn would be asking questions of Governor Ridge. I cannot believe that any of us are going to have any objections to this outstanding American and public servant taking over this helm as rapidly as possible. He certainly has my full support.
But the committee hearing was canceled, I suspect more for the fact that the present chairman has expressed over the weekend some ambitions of seeking the Presidency than anything else because, as I say, last week, when Governor Ridge and Secretary England came to my office to meet with me, they understood we were having a hearing this week—the Governor did—and certainly understood that the arrangement was as it was.
Of even greater concern to me is the fact that we had a briefing on national security scheduled for this afternoon, a top secret briefing for Members of the Senate, with the Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Vice Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Deputy Secretary of State, about the international situation in Iraq and North Korea.
We have been back a week. We have not had that briefing. I am a member of the Armed Services Committee. I have not had that briefing. At 2 o'clock this afternoon we were supposed to receive the information, of which we are certainly entitled as Members of this body in which the American people elected us to represent their interests, and that briefing was canceled. Whether by the administration or the majority leader, I do not know, but it was not canceled by the Democratic caucus, I can assure you.
So when we talk about preventing this body from doing the business of the American people, representing the interests of the American people, I think those of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle should look in the mirror.
Frankly, for someone such as myself, and my position in seniority, this argument over funding for committees—two-thirds/one-third—gets to be a little bit surreal: Who should have a car, who should have a driver. I do not even have a car in Washington. I certainly do not have a driver. I get to work just fine every day.
If the American people knew what one-third of this budget or committee actually was, I think they would be astonished that anybody could not operate effectively on one-third of what we are talking about. In fact, I would propose, if we are really concerned about the taxpayers, as we profess, we should establish a precedent of one-third of the committee budgets for the Republicans and one-third of the committee budgets for the Democrats, and give one-third back to the American taxpayers. Give it to some needy food shelves around the country. Let's establish that for the President to follow.
Precedents get established and reestablished all the time. That would be a good one, to have the same funding for the Democrats and Republicans, regardless of who has the majority, and giving one-third back to the American people. And then let's proceed.
I might also point out that the majority leader has also announced, even if we do have an organizational resolution this week, we are going to be in recess next week. In other words, we were in session last week for a couple days, and will be in session this week for a few days, and then we are going to go off for a week. Lots of us have ideas of what we are going to do back in our States around the country, but the fact is, as others have said, we have the people's business before us.
I was delighted to see the Republican leader say that based on his priorities we would be dealing with prescription drug coverage for seniors in the very near future. I understood that was his first order of business, in fact. I thought that was just exactly the right priority for the American people.
So I suggest to the majority leader that, given these delays, let's get this organizing resolution resolved and then let's stay in Washington next week. Let's do the business of the people. Let's not leave Washington. Let's not go away for a weekend. Let's not go away for a week. Let's stay here in session until we get passed prescription drug coverage for seniors. If he kept all of us to the task, denying us our recess until we completed the business of American senior citizens, I guarantee you we would have something done sooner rather than much later.
