Public Statements
Corporate Tax Dodgers
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 14, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

CORPORATE TAX DODGERS
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, the President announced a tax proposal last week. I call it "Leave No Millionaire Behind." He expressed his concern about the double taxation of corporate profits in America. I wish he would devote equal concern about the nontaxation of corporate profits in this country. It is estimated that now less than half of corporate profits are taxed at all. Through various tax and accounting gimmicks, some of the very profitable companies in this country not only have no tax liability whatsoever, they receive multimillion-dollar refunds from the American taxpayer.
Take CSX, for example, a company headed by the President's nominee for Secretary of Treasury, Mr. John Snow. For the last 4 years, CSX reported U.S. profits of $934 billion. It paid, in American taxes, zero. It received rebates, in fact, from the American Treasury of $164 billion.
Let me repeat that. CSX earned $934 billion in profits on its American operations, paid zero taxes to the American Treasury, and received a $164 billion refund from the American taxpayer.
I would say that is "compassionate conservatism," but it is certainly not double taxation. It is no taxation. And it is a big winner, increasingly so, on Wall Street. It is a reason that corporate income tax in this country has been a declining share of the Federal tax revenues over the last decades.
In 1960, corporate taxes amounted to 23 percent of Federal revenues. In 1970, that dropped to 18 percent; in 1980, 14 percent; last year, 10.5 percent. In other words, the corporate income tax share of Federal Government revenue is one-half of what it was 40 years ago.
There used to be an ethic in this country that business, being an integral part of the communities in which they operated, drew their lifeblood from the people of this country and from its democratic and capitalist structures, and that they had an obligation to give something back. But no longer.
The modern version of John Kennedy's inaugural refrain, "Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country," has become, in corporate America, "Ask what your country can do for you and what you can avoid doing for your country."
One of the most obvious and disgraceful tax avoidance schemes is the growing practice of some American companies of setting up sham corporate headquarters offshore in places such as Bermuda or the Cayman Islands. These tax-free havens permit the total avoidance of taxes for foreign operations and, in some cases, from domestic operations as well.
It is bad enough that profitable U.S. corporations can essentially renounce their U.S. corporate citizenship, but some of them continue to secure very large and lucrative contracts with our Federal Government, some even in the areas of national defense and homeland security. Evidently, they see nothing wrong with profiting off the U.S. Government and then avoiding paying taxes, even on those profits to support our very own Government.
One partner in Ernst & Young said recently: "A lot of companies feel that the improvement in earnings is powerful enough so that maybe the patriotism issue should take a back seat."
That is why last summer my colleague, Senator Paul Wellstone, amended the 2002 Defense appropriations bill to bar such corporate tax dodgers from being awarded Government defense contracts. Then he successfully amended the homeland security bill to bar those companies from getting contracts with the new Department of Homeland Security. Both amendments passed on the Senate floor by voice votes, seemingly unanimously.
However, after the November election, after Paul's tragic death, the final version of the homeland security bill gutted the Wellstone amendment. Whereas Paul's amendment permitted only the President to grant a waiver upon certification to the Congress that would be necessary for national security, the corporate callboys snuck in language that allowed the Secretary of Homeland Security to grant waivers for national security or for economic benefits.
Who could argue that tax-free Government contracts are not to someone's economic benefit? It seems if that corporate someone is big enough and rich enough to know who to call in Washington, and to pay $1,000 an hour for what is euphemistically here called "Government relations," there is no doubt that the waiver would be granted. In other words, Paul Wellstone's legacy is going to be obliterated by waves of waivers, which is why we need more Paul Wellstones in Washington.
So, last week, to honor Paul's memory, to try to reclaim part of his legacy, I introduced the Senator Paul Wellstone Corporate Patriotism Act that reinstates the Wellstone amendment to the Homeland Security Act. It says that corporations that have renounced their American citizenship and moved offshore to avoid paying taxes to the U.S. Government will not get business contracts with the U.S. Government, at least not with homeland security projects.
It is the least we can do for Paul Wellstone. It is the least we should do for ourselves because most U.S. companies, like most American citizens, are law abiding, patriotic, and responsible. Nobody likes paying taxes. Americans have been anti taxes since the colonial days, since the Boston Tea Party, since the rallying cry of, "Taxation without representation is tyranny."
Taxes are necessary for this country's survival, however. We have increased military spending by 23 percent in the last 2 years on a bipartisan basis, which the President requested. We have evidence that new efforts in homeland security will cost an additional $37 billion. Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan, the military buildup in the neighborhood of Iraq—all of these depend upon Americans paying taxes and everyone paying their fair share of taxes. When someone avoids paying their fair share, everyone else pays a higher unfair share. We need to reestablish an ethic in this country that tax avoidance is unpatriotic, un-American; tax avoidance is selfish, greedy, and an insult to this Nation.
Tax exemption, especially for the wealthy, whether they be dividends or estates—those tax exemptions not based on the inability to pay for social benefits such as charitable negotiation are betrayals of our democracy. They betray the American promise of better lives for everyone by all of us working together, by joining together, by pledging together, as our forefathers did, our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor.
This country won't work if we don't work together. This country won't thrive if the richest citizens avoid paying taxes and profitable companies put profits before patriotism. More is never enough. It is time for the American elite to say they have enough—more than enough. I urge you, don't break America with your selfishness or your greed. Pay your fair share for America. Do so willingly, proudly, and patriotically. I say to the corporate expatriots of America, come home.
I yield the floor.
