Public Statements
News Conference on the President's Stimulus Package
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 10, 2003
Location: Unknown

HEADLINE: NEWS CONFERENCE ON THE PRESIDENT'S STIMULUS PACKAGE
 
PARTICIPANTS: SENATOR JON CORZINE (D-NJ); SENATOR BYRON DORGAN (D-ND); SENATOR MARK DAYTON (D-MN)
BODY:
SEN. CORZINE: Good morning, everyone. I guess it's good afternoon. And my colleagues and I, Senator Dorgan and Senator Dayton, are here to comment a little bit on Vice President Bush's [sic/means Cheney's] economic talk of the morning.
Let me call on Senator Dayton.
SEN. DAYTON: Thank you. I'd say that the vice president's credibility as an economic forecaster ought to be judged by what happened to his company the last time after he left it, a few months later, when it went into serious financial difficulty after him saying that he wasn't informed, as the CEO, three months before this debacle occurred, that it was coming.
I would divide the president's tax proposal into two parts. And, along the lines of what Senator Dorgan said. I think there are features that might provide the basis for a targeted tax reduction, and that is the acceleration of the child credit increase to $1,000 per child and expanding the 10 percent bracket by a pittance, in their case. I would double the 10 percent bracket; and the marriage-penalty relief acceleration.
Those three combined is $197 billion over 10 years. And I think there's justification as a matter of better tax equity just for working families in doing that. But the rest of the proposal—and the president's centerpiece is lowering the top rates for the very wealthy and exempting dividend income from taxpayers entirely—to me is one of, if not the worst tax proposals ever made by a United States president.
It's called a growth package. Well, all it's going to grow is the income inequality in this country. It's going to grow the gap between the rich and everyone else. It's going to grow tax unfairness. The rich will pay less and everyone else in America will eventually pay more. It's going to grow federal deficits and our national debt. And it's going to grow the size of the financial disaster that lies ahead of this country.
We now see that what the president calls compassionate conservatism is limited to millionaires and multimillionaires. No administration in our history has ever been so compassionate to the very rich.
The 2001 tax cut provided the wealthiest 1 percent of the people in America, people with incomes greater than $1,117,000, with an average tax cut of over $45,000 a year for each of the next 10 years. But I guess that wasn't enough, because this proposal that the president has made would provide the average person with a million dollars or more income in this country an average cut of $88,900 a year for the next 10 years.
Combine those two tax proposals, the 2001 and the 2003, that's $144,600 average tax cut per year to the wealthiest 1 percent of the people in this country. Now, that is compassion. In fact, what it really is is it's an obscene catering to the greed of the super-rich in this country. And unfortunately, this financial feast would have to be paid for by the rest of America, especially by our children in the years ahead.
We see now already that the $674 billion estimate of the cost of this over a decade is really $950 billion when you add in the additional interest costs that would result. The administration, we know, has already squandered the budget surplus that the Clinton administration left that was projected for the next 10 years. And now they're planning to basically clean out the rest of the federal treasury.
The Social Security trust fund is being looted every year, and will be for the foreseeable future. The surplus is wiped out entirely to finance these deficits. And you can only imagine what's going to be left after the six years, if that's what their intention is, to get six years more out of this economy and then leave the carnage to whoever is going to follow.
And to obscure these matters, we're now seeing all sorts of attempts at fiscal manipulations by the administration, fudging the budget. And OMB's excluding the cost of interest is just another example of how the OMB under this administration has lost its credibility for honest budget forecasting. It's—now they're calling—what we call dynamic scoring—I think every school kid in America knows what dynamic scoring is. That's when you take a 50 on the report card and you make it an 80 before you give it to your parents. If we have dynamic scoring, if we're going to just throw the rule book out and let each administration come up with whatever economic theory concocted to fudge the numbers so that their policies look better, I think we're going to lose any ability to make rational budget decisions in this Congress.
And finally, now, the tactic of thinking that deficits don't matter, which is, as my colleagues have said, just absolute denial of everything that's (appreciating ?) in the years to go. And I'm glad to see that some of our private economists are coming forth to tell people the truth about this.
I would challenge Mr. Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, to come forward and tell the truth to the American people about these policies. I've seen him for the last two years dancing around the head of a pin while the administration violates every admonition he made to Congress under the previous administration.
And I think if we're going to get another spate of that kind of mealy-mouth equivocation with him, he ought to have the integrity to resign, because we need to tell the American people the truth about these policies.
We need to tell the American people what's going to happen if we adopt them and the fiscal Armageddon that lies ahead. And otherwise we're going to see—people are going to come to us in a decade and say, "How did you sell this country down the river?" And we'll say, "It went to the super-rich."
SEN. DORGAN: Let me correct one statement. I mentioned the 25 percent/32 percent. I said 25 percent was income for the top 1 percent. In fact, the top 1 percent pay an aggregate 25 percent of the taxes but will get 32 percent of the tax-cut proposals offered by President Bush. I just want to make sure that that's understood.
Q To affect this debate, how important do you think it is for Democrats to coalesce behind a single program? And, if so, are you making aggressive efforts to try to get a Democratic alternative that people can respond to?
SEN. CORZINE: I think it is advantageous for us to actually come up with as broad a base of support for a given plan as we can. There is a lot of agreement to start with. You heard us argue forcefully for dealing with unemployment on a more comprehensive basis than was taken up this week in the passage of the bill. We talked about dealing with those that have exhausted their unemployment benefits, the million people and 95,000 a week that come on.
We, almost all of us, have talked about making sure that there is support for state and local governments, avoiding this trickle-down of tax increases that pay for what we're taking fiscally irresponsible steps at the national level. And there is almost uniformity, I think, in our caucus about that.
There are some differences about whether we want to support some of the good elements that Senator Dayton talked about, the part of the Bush proposal—a very small piece of a very big and bad policy—or do we want to deal with payroll-tax holiday or do we want a rebate? There are different ideas. We need to get to a conclusion where we have a common view on that.
But the fact is, we want to put money in the hands of people who will turn around and spend it. And we want to make sure we help the states and we want to help those people that are already suffering from the bad economic policy that is now in place.
Q I'm wondering whether you would agree that this whole debate seems to be a disagreement over economics in terms of whose spending will stimulate the economy. It seems to me that a lot of supply-side economists that are advising the administration say it's not. That they sort of lable it Keynesian, to say that, you know, giving it to like middle class—any kind of tax cut to middle class people won't stimulate the economy, whereas if you put it in the hands of people who can create new jobs and investment, and so forth, that that's what grows the economy. I mean, do you see it as that fundamental disagreement?
SEN. DORGAN: There certainly is some of that; the vision by some that the economy works when you put something in at the top and it trickles down, or the vision of others, myself among them, that the economy works on a percolate-up notion; that you give folks that represent the economic engine, working people in this country, something to work with, that this economy begins to percolate up and do well.
But let me just say that the president's proposal is clearly not a stimulus proposal. Call it what they will, it does not and cannot and will not stimulate this country's economy by proposing that only 10 cents of every dollar of tax cut be employed in that manner in the first year.
If you're going to stimulate the American economy and put back to work those hundreds of thousands of people that have been losing their jobs recently, you've got to move quickly, move effectively, and promote tax policies that stimulate it now, not four years from now.
So it is not appropriate for the administration to call this a big stimulus plan. It is a minuscule stimulus plan that won't work. Ten cents on the dollar is all that's available in the first year under this president's proposal.
And Congresswoman Pelosi announced a plan. We've got—Senator Baucus announced a plan, both of which have more than twice as much stimulus in the next year, in the coming year, than does the plan offered by President Bush.
SEN. CORZINE: They don't even think their proposal is going to provide the kind of stimulus that people talk about. I want to repeat, we've lost as many jobs in the last two months in this economy, as reported this morning by the Labor Department, as they put on their web site that their proposal would provide in 2003 -- 190,000 jobs.
I don't call that stimulus. That sounds like a stalemate to me. And that's not taking into account any of the negative impact that we're seeing taking place with the states, where state and local governments are having to lay off people, have to cut services. And it's a real deal if you live in most parts of the country when your property taxes are going up 7 percent or 18 and a half percent, as I talked about.
SEN. DAYTON: I think this is a re-election stimulus package, not an economic stimulus package.
Q Just to follow up, do you see any Democratic votes at all on the Senate side for a dividend tax cut?
SEN. DORGAN: We've not had any polls of members on our side, but we've been in caucuses and various gatherings. I've not heard anyone in our caucus speak up for this plan. Most of them think it would blow a huge hole in the budget deficit, dramatically increase the deficits. And I know of no one who thinks it's a good idea to lead with the kind of cost that's exhibited by the dividend proposal in terms of the unfairness it creates.
Q Specifically, what parts of the 10 cents you're talking about represent—of Bush's plan represents stimulus? And specifically -- (inaudible) -- the 90 percent that you think is not -- (inaudible)?
SEN. DORGAN: I don't have the study with me that came up with the 10 cents. But take the major elements of the plan, and some of which I think are fine public policy if we have the capability to do it. But if you increase the dependent-child tax credit in the year 2005, is that going to help the economy in the year 2003? I don't think so. A dividend exclusion that goes out in the out years permanent? Is that going to help the American economy in 2003? I don't think so.
If you take a look at the bulk of the expensive provisions of this president's proposal, it has almost nothing to do with stimulating the economy. And if you feel like reading the daily newspapers, you'll find in the last four or five days an admission by unnamed sources at the White House that says this is a political document.
Q I just wanted to make sure I heard -- (inaudible). Are you saying that Lucent's problems are directly to blame with Bush policies?
SEN. CORZINE: I'm not saying they're directly related. I'm just saying there are problems in the economy. We have excess capacity in this economy. And, you know, (we're dealing with?) Keynesian and supply side. We have an overhang of huge excess capacity in the technology, telecommunications, financial services industries, things that have been drivers of our economy, part of what drove 22 million new jobs in the 1990s.
And there is nothing in this proposal that is going to deal with the fact that we have this huge overhang of excess capacity. And we're losing jobs regularly. AT&T just announced another major layoff, not necessarily in New Jersey, but we're not taking steps to address the problem we have.
We're talking about some pie-in-the-sky theory that somehow or another you pass out dividends ultimately that will trickle down into more efficient ways five, 10, 15 years from now. This is not a stimulus program. And when it takes cash off the balance sheet of a corporation, they don't have the ability to go out and sustain jobs or hire more people or invest in plant and equipment.
And in that sense, I do think it relates to that. But I don't think it's the cause. We are not focused on driving demand in this economy, and that's what we have missing right now.
SEN. DAYTON: I'll just say that a few economists, including the Federal Reserve's own economic model would say that, just as Senator Corzine said, that putting money in the hands of people who spend it has a much greater immediate impact than tax breaks that are going to take effect in April of 2004.
So extending unemployment benefits, that is an economic stimulus. That's putting money in the hands of people who need to spend money on goods and services and will do so as soon as that check reaches their wallet. Providing disaster assistance to families, which this administration won't do, that is economic stimulus. That's taking farmers that are already on the verge of bankruptcy and giving them money that they can spend, put it back into their farms and feed the local economies.
The highway funding proposals would be—doubling those, as some have proposed, I would agree with that. That's economic stimulus. That's putting people back to work—who have the money to go out and spend on goods and services.
If you double the 10 percent back-up from 20 -- $12,000 of taxable income to the first 24,000, that's going to reach everybody. It won't happen until April 15th, 2004. That means every taxpayer gets a—who is in the bracket, gets $600 of additional—a joint filer -- $600 of additional cash that they can spend.
Those are the kinds of things that will stimulate the economy, not, as has been said, you know, giving dividend breaks to the super rich.
Q Senator Dayton, you had mentioned Chairman Greenspan. In 2001, he made comments that were broadly favorable about the Bush tax cut. It obviously gave momentum. Clearly in the debate that's coming up, Republicans are going to try elicit favorable comments from Chairman Greenspan on this. I mean, are you warning him?
SEN. DAYTON: I just—yes, I think for the last two years he has equivocated on things that he said to the Clinton administration and to economists during those years about the important of fiscal responsibility and discipline, and getting the, for the long-term growth of the country, our fiscal house in order, which is what the Clinton administration did. We had surpluses the last four years. We had surpluses in the last tow—they—the Clinton administration had surpluses for the last two years in the operating account. And when you talk about a Social Security trust fund lock box, the president campaigned in 2000 promising to put those Social Security surplus monies in a lockbox. He violated that pledge from the very beginning, and we've not heard a word. He's turned us from surpluses for a decade, for 10 years, into deficits, major deficits projected over 10 years. We've not heard a word from the—from Mr. Greenspan. And I just think he—to me he has no credibility because it seems to me he's going to equivocate to do what the administration wants to do rather than what he knows, ought to know as a professional economist, is in the long-term detriment or better Internet of the country. And I think that's irresponsible, and I think if he's going to continue that way, you know, I can't make him resign, but I think he should resign, because I think he's his ability to serve the economic interests of the country if that's the tactic he's going to take.
