Public Statements
Floor Statement On Economic Stimulus
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 9, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

On Economic Stimulus
January 9, 2003
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I wonder if perhaps you and some of my colleagues remember, as I do, the movie "Animal House," one of the classic American comedies. In the movie, the rogue fraternity Delta House had one solution to many of their problems, and that was a road trip. If there was an academic suspension—a road trip; fraternity problems—a road trip; expulsions—a road trip.
Here in Washington we have some who hold a similar one-line refrain to just about every problem; and that is—tax cuts. We have budget surpluses—tax cuts; budget deficits—tax cuts; economic recessions—tax cuts.
Well, like road trips, tax cuts are a lot more fun and popular than dealing with unpleasant realities. Tax cuts are practically guaranteed to make the politicians who support them popular with their constituents, and so I must confess to liking them myself. But, like road trips, tax cuts not only avoid unpleasant realities, they often make them worse. They might postpone the day of reckoning, but the conditions will be even worse as a result, not only because of the delay in facing up to those realities, but also because of the tax cut itself.
This tax cut proposal that the President made 2 days ago is the road trip equivalent of visiting Fort Lauderdale. It is excessive, it is reckless, it is dangerous, and it is seductively appealing. Masquerading it as economic stimulus would be consumer fraud. I note with interest that the White House has seemed to have dropped that claim. Little of it would take effect actually this year, and none of the proposals put real dollars in the pockets of consumers.
This is a reelection stimulus package aimed at 2004 rather than an economic stimulus package aimed at 2003. It is putting money in the pockets of the wealthiest Americans who, if this administration had its way, would, it seems, pay almost no Federal taxes of any kind, whether they are alive or after they are dead. It is important we remember that the richest Americans already got huge tax reductions in 2001. Those with incomes of more than $1 million a year will get an average of $650,000 in tax cuts over the 10-year life of that bill. The rich do not need another tax cut, yet they would be the ones getting most of the money in the President's proposal.
