Public Statements
Issue Position: Opportunity for All
Issue Position
By: Mark Dayton
Location: Unknown

Standing up for the African American Community
Mark has a long record of working with African-American leaders in Minnesota to create jobs, improve education, and improve the communities in which African Americans live. As Governor, Mark Dayton will continue to work with African-American leaders to achieve these goals.
From his experience teaching in a New York City public school, Mark Dayton knows the importance of education. As a U.S. Senator, he voted against No Child Left Behind, because its excessive testing label students and schools. He offered seven amendments to fully fund the federal commitment to special education. As Governor, he will work to increase funding for early childhood education and state-funded optional all-day kindergarten.
Mark will work to stop relying on property taxes to fund public schools, which creates inequality between school districts. He will work to ensure that all our children receive a world-class education wherever they live. Mark also knows funding alone is not the answer; he'll work to reform education to ensure better student achievement.
Mark also understands the severity of Minnesota's foreclosure crisis and knows that housing turnover devastates communities and neighborhoods. As Governor, Mark will work with Representative Jeff Hayden and other legislative leaders to help Minnesotans stay in their homes.
Mark Dayton will be Minnesota's next Jobs Governor. He has served twice as Minnesota's Commissioner of Economic Development. He helped businesses create jobs throughout our state. As U.S. Senator, he helped secure funding for transportation projects including Metro-area bus services, the Hiawatha Light Rail Line, the Central Corridor Light Rail project, and the Northstar Commuter Rail Line; he also secured funding for Youthbuild, a program that helps urban youth earn high school credit while developing their job skills building affordable housing.

Source:
