Public Statements
Issue Position: LGBT Equality
Issue Position
By: Mark Dayton
Location: Unknown

Equality for all Minnesotans
Mark Dayton and Yvonne Prettner Solon will fight to treat all Minnesota families equally under the law by working to enact a marriage equality bill. This will make Minnesota the sixth state in the nation to recognize that the love and commitment shared by same-sex partners is as real and meaningful as their opposite-sex counterparts.
Mark Dayton and Yvonne Prettner Solon will protect all our children by fighting for and signing a stronger Safe Schools bill that would give our educators the tools they need to effectively deal with bullying towards LGBT students.
Mark Dayton and Yvonne Prettner Solon will fight for legislation granting statewide second parent adoption for same-sex couples. Currently, second parent adoption has only been granted in some jurisdictions in Minnesota and Mark and Yvonne's pledge would guarantee all Minnesota families are treated equally without regards to where they live.
Mark Dayton and Yvonne Prettner Solon (the lead author of past similar bills) will respect our relationships with our loved ones by signing legislation that would allow domestic partners to care for and make health decisions for one another, including:
* Privacy during hospital visits, equal access to a partner's mental health diagnosis and hospice decisions.
* Final wishes legislation that will provide same-sex partners the automatic right to control their partner's remains after death. It will change the law's language to include same-sex partners, eliminating the need for costly and ineffective legal documents to ensure the right to make after-death decisions.
* Wrongful death legislation that will allow a surviving same-sex partner to sue the person responsible for a wrongful death -- such as a drunken driver -- to recover medical and funeral expenses.
During his time in Congress, Mark Dayton consistently stood with LGBT advocates fighting for equality at the federal level and scored a 100% on the Human Rights Campaign's Congressional Scorecard for the 107th, 108th and 109th Congresses.
Mark Dayton fought the proposed Federal Marriage Amendment (FMA) in Congress which would have enshrined discrimination against the LGBT community into the US Constitution. Mark took to the Senate floor and gave an impassioned speech imploring his colleagues to reject the attempt.
Mark also introduced the first-ever companion legislation to Rep. Barney Frank's Domestic Partnership Rights for federal employees in the United States Senate.

Source: http://markdayton.org/mainsite/issues/lgbt-equality/
