Public Statements
Statements from Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith on Rural Health Insurance Rates
Statement
By: Tina Smith Mark Dayton
Date: May 1, 2017
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, the Minnesota Department of Health announced new data showing that the number of uninsured Minnesotans in Greater Minnesota dropped more significantly than elsewhere in the state. The data show the uninsured rate in Greater Minnesota dropped 7 percentage points, from 12 percent uninsured in 2011 to 5 percent uninsured in 2015.

The following is a statement from Governor Mark Dayton:

"This report is further evidence that the Affordable Care Act has made a huge difference for many thousands of Minnesotans. The percentage of Minnesotans living in Greater Minnesota, who do not have health insurance, has gone down by nearly 60 percent; and the disparity in health care coverage between Greater Minnesota and the Metro Area has been significantly reduced. Statewide, over 380,000 Minnesotans have gained life-saving health care coverage; our state's overall uninsured rate has been cut in half, to 4 percent; and state government has saved taxpayers $1.65 billion in health care costs through competitive bidding and other reforms."

The following is a statement from Lt. Governor Tina Smith:

"Last week, I joined with Minnesota farmers to bring a message back to the Capitol, from town hall meetings across the state. Their message to lawmakers was simple: they want their elected officials to listen. And the number one issue on the minds of Minnesota farmers right now is access to more affordable health coverage.

"This report brings promising news: the rate of uninsured people in Greater Minnesota has fallen faster than anywhere else in our state. But Minnesotans need a reliable, affordable option for quality health care coverage -- with a doctor they can choose, and care they can afford to use.

"I join the Minnesota Farmers Union in calling on the Legislature to reconsider the Governor's MinnesotaCare Buy-In proposal, which would give all Minnesotans the option to purchase quality health coverage, at prices they could better afford."

Source: https://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/291952
