Public Statements
Lt. Governor Tina Smith Urges Action on Transit this Session at Eden Prairie Roundtable
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 9, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

At a roundtable discussion in Eden Prairie Monday, Lt. Governor Tina Smith urged action on new transit investments this session. Joined by Metropolitan Council Chair Adam Duininck, Lt. Governor Smith today gathered input and testimony from local elected officials and area business leaders about the need for new transit investments as part of a comprehensive, long-term transportation plan. The Southwest Light Rail (SWLRT) project between Minneapolis and Eden Prairie would help improve access to 174,000 current jobs and 238,000 additional jobs of the future, while leveraging $895 million in federal funding. Additionally, SWLRT -- which requires $135 million in state transit funding in order to move forward -- would also help to raise area property values and attract and retain businesses and residents in a 21st Century economy.

"Minnesota's roads, bridges, and transit networks form the backbone of our economy. After decades of decline, we must invest in these systems to protect Minnesota's long-term economic vitality," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "Governor Dayton and I believe that transit must be part of Minnesota's long-term transportation solution: businesses need it, workers need it, and thousands of Minnesotans rely on it every day. The plan proposed by Democrats would provide the resources necessary for a 21st Century transportation system and build an economy that works for all Minnesotans, everywhere in Minnesota."

Modern roads, bridges, and transit systems are the foundation of an economy that works for all Minnesotans, everywhere in our state. Businesses statewide need reliable roads and bridges to export their ideas and innovations to consumers around the globe. To attract and retain the best workers, Minnesota needs roadways, bridges, and transit systems that make it easy to get to work safely, affordably, and on-time. The Dayton-Smith Administration has proposed a 21st Century transportation plan that would make the sustainable, long-term investments necessary to build a better transportation network, spur Minnesota's innovation economy forward, and generate the great jobs of the future.

"Businesses know that we need a reliable, robust and efficient regional transit system to attract and retain workforce," said Council Chair Adam Duininck. "The Southwest Light Rail will provide fast, frequent and reliable transit service for a growing region. It allows more people to connect into the larger transit system, connecting people across the region to job centers, housing options, transit stations and key destinations. Investments in transit are essential to keep growing our economy."

The Metropolitan Council expects to see the seven-county metro area grow by nearly 800,000 people by the year 2040. New investments in transit, along with funding for our roads and bridges, will be required to meet these growing demands on Minnesota's transportation systems. Investments in transit are especially important to attracting new workers and businesses to our state -- a Rockefeller Foundation study found that 66 percent of millennials say access to high-quality transportation is one of their top three priorities when considering a move to another city.

Driving Minnesota Forward
High-quality, modern transportation infrastructure drives economic growth and competitiveness. That's why Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith support a transportation investment that will reinvigorate Minnesota's transportation systems -- ensuring that we have a statewide transportation solution that works for all Minnesotans.

Investing in Roads and Bridges -- Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith's transportation solution would repair or replace 2,200 miles of roads and 330 bridges statewide. The plan would also give local leaders the resources and flexibility to repair and replace local roads and bridges in their communities by directing over 40 percent of the new revenues to cities, counties, and townships.
Transit for Growing Economies -- The Dayton-Smith transit plan would allow 20 additional bus rapid transit and light rail transit lines to be added -- taking more vehicles off the road, and providing easy, affordable access to transit throughout the Metro Area. The plan would also expand transit services in Minnesota's regional centers and Greater Minnesota communities, adding 500,000 additional hours of transit service annually in Greater Minnesota.
Safe and Healthy Communities -- To ensure that Minnesota kids can get to school safely, while improving physical activity, reducing congestion, and increasing pedestrian safety, the Dayton-Smith transportation plan would invest in the Safe Routes to School program and other bike and pedestrian upgrades statewide.
Improving Rail Safety and Reducing Delays -- Every day, trains carrying oil and other hazardous materials pass through Minnesota. These trains present real risks to public safety and our natural resources. That is why Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor's proposal would make strategic investments in rail safety improvements to improve the safety of Minnesotans living near railway and alleviate traffic for businesses that are backed up by train delays. Overall, their proposal would fund 75 priority railway infrastructure improvements necessary to improve safety and spur Minnesota's economy forward.

A State of Disrepair
Aging Roads and Bridges -- Right now, more than half of Minnesota's roads are more than 50 years old, and 40 percent of the state's bridges are more than 40 years old. In just the next three years alone, one in five Minnesota roads will pass their useful life. And in the next ten years, nearly 40 percent of our roads will be past their useful life.
High Costs for Commuters and Businesses -- Poor roads cost Minnesota motorists $1.2 billion every year in extra vehicle repairs, and Minnesota businesses spend an extra $232 million each year on additional freight transportation costs caused by traffic congestion.
Meeting the Need for Rising Transit Ridership -- In 2015, there were nearly 99 million rides across the system. Transit usage has increased 30 percent over the past 10 years. By 2040, the region is expected to add an additional 750,000 people. Without additional investments in transit, our state will not be able to keep up with that growing demand.
A $6 Billion Problem -- Last year, Governor Dayton and legislative leaders reached agreement on the scope of Minnesota's growing transportation needs. Currently, Minnesota faces a $6 billion funding gap for state highways over the next decade that will only get bigger the longer we wait. Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith remain committed to reaching a common ground, common sense solution this year on how to fund a long-term, comprehensive transportation solution to build a better Minnesota for everyone, everywhere in our state.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/228960
