Public Statements
Lt. Governor Tina Smith Joins Kids to Walk, Bike to School
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 4, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

As part of the fifth annual Bike to School Day, Lt. Governor Smith today joined students, staff, and parents from Falcon Heights Elementary School to bike and walk to school. The annual Walk and Bike to School Days emphasize the importance of safe walking and biking routes for kids, families, and communities.

"Minnesota's transportation networks form the backbone of our economy and our communities," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "Investments in programs like Safe Routes to School protect our kids, while building safer, healthier communities that benefit Minnesotans statewide. The transportation plan proposed by Governor Dayton and I would provide the resources necessary for a 21st Century transportation system that works for all Minnesotans, everywhere in Minnesota."

As part of their comprehensive, long-term transportation plan, Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith have proposed investing $75 million over the next ten years in the Safe Routes to School program and other bike and pedestrian upgrades statewide. Building walkable communities allows kids to get to school safely, while improving physical activity in children, increasing pedestrian safety, and reducing traffic congestion, while having a positive impact on the environment.

Minnesota's Safe Routes to School program provides funding to local communities to build paths, cross walks and other infrastructure to increase opportunities for children, families, and communities to walk and bicycle safely in their neighborhoods. Last year, the Minnesota Department of Transportation awarded $1 million in Safe Routes to School funding for improvements at Robert J. Elkington Middle School and Murphy Elementary School in Grand Rapids, Roosevelt Elementary School in Mankato, Lyndale Elementary School in Minneapolis, and Franklin Middle School and Challenger Elementary School in Thief River Falls.

Modern transportation systems are the foundation of an economy that works for all Minnesotans, everywhere in our state. Businesses statewide need reliable roads and bridges to export their ideas and innovations to consumers around the globe. To attract and retain the best workers, Minnesota needs roadways, bridges, paths and transit systems that make it easy to get to work safely, affordably, and on-time. The Dayton-Smith Administration has proposed a 21st Century transportation plan that would make the sustainable, long-term investments necessary to build a better transportation network, spur Minnesota's innovation economy forward, and generate the great jobs of the future.

Driving Minnesota Forward
High-quality, modern transportation infrastructure drives economic growth and competitiveness. That's why Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith support a transportation investment that will reinvigorate Minnesota's transportation systems -- ensuring that we have a statewide transportation solution that works for all Minnesotans.
Investing in Roads and Bridges -- Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith's transportation solution would repair or replace 2,200 miles of roads and 330 bridges statewide. The plan would also give local leaders the resources and flexibility to repair and replace local roads and bridges in their communities by directing over 40 percent of the new revenues to cities, counties, and townships.
Transit for Growing Economies -- The Dayton-Smith transit plan would allow 20 additional bus rapid transit and light rail transit lines to be added -- taking more vehicles off the road, and providing easy, affordable access to transit throughout the Metro Area. The plan would also expand transit services in Minnesota's regional centers and Greater Minnesota communities, adding 500,000 additional hours of transit service annually in Greater Minnesota.
Safe and Healthy Communities -- To ensure that Minnesota kids can get to school safely, while improving physical activity, reducing congestion, and increasing pedestrian safety, the Dayton-Smith transportation plan would invest in the Safe Routes to School program and other bike and pedestrian upgrades statewide.
Improving Rail Safety and Reducing Delays -- Every day, trains carrying oil and other hazardous materials pass through Minnesota. These trains present real risks to public safety and our natural resources. That is why Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor's proposal would make strategic investments in rail safety improvements to improve the safety of Minnesotans living near railway and alleviate traffic for businesses that are backed up by train delays. Overall, their proposal would fund 75 priority railway infrastructure improvements necessary to improve safety and spur Minnesota's economy forward.

A State of Disrepair
Aging Roads and Bridges -- Right now, more than half of Minnesota's roads are more than 50 years old, and 40 percent of the state's bridges are more than 40 years old. In just the next three years alone, one in five Minnesota roads will pass their useful life. And in the next ten years, nearly 40 percent of our roads will be past their useful life.
High Costs for Commuters and Businesses -- Poor roads cost Minnesota motorists $1.2 billion every year in extra vehicle repairs, and Minnesota businesses spend an extra $232 million each year on additional freight transportation costs caused by traffic congestion.
Meeting the Need for Rising Transit Ridership -- In 2015, there were nearly 99 million rides across the system. Transit usage has increased 30 percent over the past 10 years. By 2040, the region is expected to add an additional 750,000 people. Without additional investments in transit, our state will not be able to keep up with that growing demand.
A $6 Billion Problem -- Last year, Governor Dayton and legislative leaders reached agreement on the scope of Minnesota's growing transportation needs. Currently, Minnesota faces a $6 billion funding gap for state highways over the next decade that will only get bigger the longer we wait. Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith remain committed to reaching a common ground, common sense solution this year on how to fund a long-term, comprehensive transportation solution to build a better Minnesota for everyone, everywhere in our state.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/227450
