Public Statements
Governor Dayton and DFLers Urge House Republicans to Release Bonding Proposal
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 4, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton, Senate Majority Leader Tom Bakk, and House Minority Leader Paul Thissen today held a joint news conference, calling on Speaker of the House Kurt Daudt and his Republican Caucus to release their bonding bill. The Governor and DFL Leaders urged a full, transparent, and public discussion about the state's infrastructure needs this session.

Governor Dayton released his bonding proposal in January, and Senate DFLers released their bonding proposal on Monday, May 2nd, followed by immediate public hearings in the Senate. To-date, Speaker Daudt and House Republicans have shown no indication that they plan to release a Jobs Bill proposal, saying only that they believe a bonding bill this session should total no more than $600 million -- despite the fact that Minnesota Management and Budget (MMB) projects that the state's bonding capacity this session is well over $3.2 billion, and MMB received over $3.7 billion in capital investment requests this year from around the state.

"It has been 110 days since I released my Jobs Bill," said Governor Dayton. "Even after traveling the state inspecting projects for two years, Speaker Daudt's Republican Caucus has shown no signs that they plan to release a specific bonding proposal. These projects are critical for the vitality of our communities, for maintaining the quality of our higher education institutions, and for assuring safe, affordable water for Minnesotans. I urge Speaker Daudt and Republican legislators to tell Minnesotans which projects they support, and which projects they do not."

Despite Republicans' claims that any bonding proposal passed this session should be no larger than $600 million, Republican members in the House have introduced bills for 252 bonding projects, totaling over $3.4 billion. So, while their members support the projects needed in their own districts, they have not shown a willingness as a Caucus to do the work necessary to pick which projects should be debated and passed in the remaining weeks of session.

"House Republicans' comments implying that a bonding is an optional bill this year, calling it "dessert,' should show Minnesotans that Republicans just don't get it," said Senate Majority Leader Bakk. "Thousands of good paying jobs would be created and critical infrastructure projects for communities large and small would benefit from a robust bonding bill, to imply that a bonding bill is not an essential part of this session for Minnesota's economy is confounding. Capital Investment Committee Chair Sen. Leroy Stumpf released the Senate's thoughtful and thorough bonding bill Monday, informed by weeks of public travel to see firsthand the needs facing Minnesota communities. I hope Republicans soon realize that not publicly releasing and debating a bonding bill this session would be an enormous misstep and disservice to Minnesotans."

Senate Capital Investment Committee Chairman Senator Leroy Stumpf released the Senate's full, specific bonding proposal on Monday, May 2nd, followed by immediate public hearings in the Senate. The Senate DFL bill totals $1.5 billion, funding hundreds of urgently needed projects across Minnesota. Governor Dayton's bonding proposal totals $1.4 billion, and would create an estimated 39,900 Minnesota jobs. House Minority Leader Paul Thissen and his Caucus remain firm in their support of Governor Dayton and Senate DFLers' plans to enact a significant Jobs Bill this session -- one that will make needed investments in critical infrastructure projects statewide, and create tens of thousands of Minnesota jobs.

"Bringing a bonding bill forward is a necessary step for House Republicans to show Minnesotans they are serious about getting anything accomplished this session," said House DFL Leader Paul Thissen. "With the clock ticking on the 2016 session, time is of the essence. There is no reason we can't work together and move forward on an agenda that creates a stronger economic future across our state, but it's time for House Republicans to do their job."

Since January, Lt. Governor Tina Smith has been traveling the state, meeting with local leaders to discuss the critical infrastructure needs in their communities. Across Minnesota, Lt. Governor Smith has heard directly from Minnesotans how urgently these investments are needed, and has seen firsthand the benefits they will provide for local economies, and for the Minnesotans whose lives, businesses, and communities would be improved as a result.

The Minnesota Legislature is constitutionally required to adjourn on Monday, May 23, 2016. There are less than three weeks remaining in the 2016 Legislative Session.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/227452
