Public Statements
Commission on Judicial Selection Recommends First Judicial District Candidates to Governor Dayton
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 29, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

The Commission on Judicial Selection announced today it is recommending four candidates to Governor Mark Dayton for consideration to fill the current vacancies in Minnesota's First Judicial District. The vacancies are created upon the upcoming retirements of the Honorable Thomas W. Bibus and the Honorable Patrice K. Sutherland. Judge Bibus' seat will be chambered at Red Wing in Goodhue County and Judge Sutherland's seat will be chambered at Hastings in Dakota County.

Douglas Bayley: Mr. Bayley is an Assistant Public Defender in the First Judicial District Public Defender's Office, where he represents defendants in criminal cases. Previously, he was an attorney at Lundblad, Fossum & Zrimsek, a law clerk to the Hennepin County Public Defender's Office, and a Senior Duty Officer at the White House Situation Room and National Security Council as a Foreign Service Officer in the U.S. Department of State. Mr. Bayley serves on the Board of Directors for the Anderson Center at Tower View and the Hedin-Hartnagel Memorial Fund.

Jamie Cork: Ms. Cork is an Assistant Hennepin County Attorney, where she works in the Child Protection Division. Previously, she was an adjunct professor at Hamline University School of Law and the University of St. Thomas School of Law, a counselor at Ryan Community, Inc., and a patrol officer in Outagamie County in Wisconsin. Ms. Cork is a member and past Vice President of the Japanese American Citizens League, and a member of the Minnesota Statewide Human Trafficking Task Force, the Hennepin County Girls Continuum of Care Committee, and the Indian Child Welfare Act Education Day Committee.

Phillip Prokopowicz: Mr. Prokopowicz serves as the Chief Deputy Dakota County Attorney, where he is responsible for handling misdemeanor, gross misdemeanor, felony, and juvenile delinquency cases. Previously, Mr. Prokopowicz was the head of the Dakota County Criminal Division, the Assistant Dakota County Attorney, and an adjunct professor at William Mitchell College of Law. Mr. Prokopowicz has volunteered for the Inver Grove Heights Parks Department as a youth baseball and soccer coach and formerly served on the Board of Directors for the Inver Grove Heights Community Schools.

Paula Vraa: Ms. Vraa is a partner at Larson King, LLP, where she handles all aspects of civil litigation, with a focus on cases involving insurance coverage disputes, malpractice, and appeals. She is also an adjunct professor at Mitchell Hamline School of law and a no-fault arbitrator for AAA. Previously, she was an attorney at Rider Bennett, LLP, an adjunct professor at the University of St. Thomas School of Law, and a judicial law clerk to the Honorable Harriet Lansing and the Honorable Jack Davies. Ms. Vraa is the seminar chair for the DRI Appellate Advocacy section and volunteers as a teacher at Junior Achievement.

Minnesota's First Judicial District consists of Carver, Dakota, Goodhue, Le Sueur, McLeod, Scott, and Sibley Counties.

An announcement of the appointments will be made following an interview process over the next few weeks.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/226729
