Public Statements
Gov. Dayton and Lt. Gov. Smith: Transportation Bill Must Include $600 Million for Roads and Bridges, $280 Million for Transit
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 29, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton and Lt. Governor Tina Smith today delivered a letter to Minnesota's legislative leaders, making clear to House Speaker Kurt Daudt and Republicans in the Legislature what must be included in this year's transportation bill. Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith noted that the state needs $600 million per year in new, ongoing revenue for roads and bridges in order to maintain our current infrastructure and make needed expansions and mobility improvements. The Governor and Lt. Governor also noted that the state needs $280 million per year in new, ongoing revenue in order to maintain and improve our transit systems.

The following is a statement from Governor Mark Dayton:

"The Lieutenant Governor and I emphasize again that these additional expenditures to maintain, improve, and expand Minnesota's transportation systems are absolutely essential to continuing our state's economic growth and social vitality. A lesser commitment would seriously jeopardize that growth and vitality.
"Previous legislatures have avoided this responsibility. As a result, our transportation deficiencies have grown and have become more expensive to correct. Another failure to make these investments will cause further deterioration in highway conditions, congestion, and safety. That failure would be irresponsible and inexcusable.
"Therefore, we urge the legislature to pass a transportation bill, which provides this necessary funding without draining either our General Fund or our General Obligation Bonding capacity."

The following is a statement from Lt. Governor Tina Smith:

"For months, I have traveled the state meeting with Minnesota mayors, county commissioners, community and business leaders, discussing our state's serious transportation challenges. The message I have heard is loud and clear: transportation isn't a partisan issue, it's an economic issue. Local leaders know it's past time to take action on fixing our transportation system. They expect us to pass a balanced, comprehensive plan that funds roads, bridges and transit for the long term. And they know that we need new revenue dedicated to transportation to both maintain our current system and also improve and expand where we need to. Minnesotans are fed up with inaction and partial solutions. With just a few weeks left in the legislative session, they expect solutions and leadership."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/226706
