Public Statements
Governor Dayton Announces State Equity Audit and Working Group
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

In his continuing efforts to make the state's workforce reflect the diversity of Minnesotans, and expand opportunity for Minnesotans of color, Governor Mark Dayton today announced an independent audit of the state's procurement, human rights and affirmative action practices. The audit, urged by local chapters of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), will review how the state administers existing laws aimed at ensuring equal opportunity for Minnesota businesses and individuals. Additionally, Governor Dayton today established a working group that will provide continued oversight of the audit, comprised of 27 local organizations and state councils serving protected class communities.

"Our state workforce must better reflect the people we serve," said Governor Dayton. "I look forward to working with these working group members to review this audit's findings, and then implementing the group's recommendations. I thank each of them for their important community leadership."

"I thank Governor Dayton for taking action on our request for a serious review of ensuring state government has a diverse and inclusive workplace and business environment. The level of economic disparities in our state have reached a crisis point and demands the urgent attention of Minnesota's leadership from both parties." said W.C. Jordan Jr., President, Minnesota/Dakotas Area State Conference & Rochester Branch NAACP. "I look forward to working with Governor Dayton and the working group to moving our state, and state government forward."

"Our goal is to reestablish a commitment to cultural agility in our state government operations. Building a state workforce that is more reflective of the people it serves will enable effective work in crosscultural situations, diverse cultural communities and eliminate institutional isms," said Jeffry Martin, President, NAACP St. Paul Chapter. "This audit is a step in the right direction. I thank Governor Dayton for listening to our concerns and convening this working group."

About the Audit
The independent audit announced today by Governor Dayton will review the last five years of the Administration's application of the state's Procurement Act (M.S. 16C), Affirmative Action Act (M.S. 43A), and Human Rights Act (M.S. 363A). The full audit, which will be completed ahead of the next legislative session, will determine the following:

Whether these laws are being administered as required; Recommendations for the Administration to improve its application and enforcement of these laws to address underutilization of protected class groups' participation in state employment, and to eradicate disparities in the state's workforce;
Recommendations for additional steps the State of Minnesota can take to address oversight, coordination, and administration of these laws; and
The skills and training that are required for staff charged with administering these laws, to ensure they are upheld and abided by.
The audit's findings will be reviewed by the Governor, and the Majority and Minority Leaders of the Minnesota Senate and House of Representatives. The Governor and Majority and Minority Leaders will meet to review the audit findings and determine in collaboration with the working group if there is a need to take any corrective actions.

State Equity Audit Working Group
The Governor's Working Group will evaluate independent review's findings and recommend corrective actions and solutions where necessary. The Working Group is comprised of key stakeholders from 27 organizations and state agencies and councils serving protected class communities including:
African Chamber of Commerce
African Development Center
African Development Solutions
Association of General Contractors
Association of Women Contractors
Comunidades Latinas Unidas en Servicio (CLUES)
Council on Asian Pacific Minnesotans
Council for Minnesotans of African Heritage
Everybody In
Frogtown Neighborhood Association
Hmong Chamber of Commerce of MN
Kaposia
Little Earth of United Tribes
Minnesota Black Chamber of Commerce
Minnesota Building & Construction Trades Council
Minnesota Chamber of Commerce
Minnesota Council on Latino Affairs
Minnesota Commission of Deaf, Deafblind and Hard of Hearing
Minnesota Department of Administration
Minnesota Department of Human Rights
Minnesota Department of Management and Budget
Minnesota Indian Affairs Council
Minnesota State Council on Disability
Minority Contractor Association-Upper Midwest
NAACP, MN/Dakotas
NAACP, St. Paul
Vietnamese American Chamber of Commerce

Dayton-Smith Administration Equity Initiatives
In their supplemental budget bill, Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith have proposed $100 million for significant new initiatives to expand economic opportunities and eliminate disparities for Minnesotans of color across the state. These investments would help more Minnesotans access opportunity in our state's growing economy, help entrepreneurs start and grow small businesses, and expand educational opportunities for all.

Under the Dayton-Smith Administration, the State of Minnesota has made progress on expanding opportunities to ensure the state's workforce reflects the people it serves including:

* Establishment of the Governor's Diversity and Inclusion Council

* Hired the state's first ever Chief Inclusion Officer

* Hired a statewide executive recruiter focused on diversifying executive positions

* Created the Office of Equity in Procurement at the Department of Administration

* Increased state employment of people with disabilities to 5.7%, up from 3.7%

* Improved the state hiring process with new tools and policies

* Surveyed 23 state agencies about their civic engagement practices to create a baseline for improvements

* Created the Office of Career and Business Opportunity at DEED

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/226481
