Public Statements
Science Museum of Minnesota Selected by NASA to Lead the Interpretation of Space and Earth Science for Museums Across the U.S.
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 27, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

The Science Museum of Minnesota announced today that it has been selected to lead a national effort to engage the public in space and earth science from NASA's Science Mission Directorate.

The museum will spearhead the Space and Earth Informal STEM Education (SEISE) project along with partners from Arizona State University; Museum of Science, Boston; and the University of California at Berkeley's Lawrence Hall of Science and Space Sciences Laboratory. The goal of the partnership is to help NASA connect its resources with learners around the country in new and innovative ways. The project puts Minnesota at the forefront of inspiring the next generation of science explorers.

"We are excited to partner with NASA and our sister institutions to create a national learning resource," said Alison Rempel Brown, president of the Science Museum of Minnesota. "NASA's programs are exciting and critical to our nation's future for space exploration and scientific learning. The Science Museum is a proven leader at making science concepts inspirational and easy-to-understand through programs and activities. We are a perfect match. I look forward to a successful partnership that inspires future scientists through fun and engaging programs."

This new contract is one of the largest awarded by NASA, totaling $14.5 million over five years. NASA has also provided funding to the Science Museum since 2009 for climate change education programs and for the SPACE exhibition, which premiered at the Science Museum in 2015 before embarking on a tour of science centers across the nation.

"I am thrilled to see the Science Museum of Minnesota selected by NASA to help teach and inspire the next generation of scientists and space explorers," said Governor Mark Dayton. "This is tremendous news for the Science Museum, for our state, and for millions of curious minds in Minnesota and across the nation. Congratulations on this well-earned honor."

The partnership is inspired by the hugely successful Nanoscale Informal Science Education (NISE) Network, in which the Science Museum of Minnesota was a guiding force. A community that shares in the development and distribution of exhibits and activities that raise awareness and understanding about nanoscience and its applications, the NISE Network has more than 600 active partners across the United States, including science and children's museums, university research centers, and professional organizations that serve informal educators and scientists. More than 30 million people participated in nanoscale science education programs with NISENet partner organizations, making it one of the most successful informal science learning projects ever.

With this new funding development from NASA, the NISENet will transform into the National Informal STEM Education Network, and the SEISE project will serve as its anchor.

The SEISE project will draw upon NASA's experts, data, and existing educational programs and online portals to translate its vast storehouse of knowledge and ongoing research into a series of new learning experiences. The learning experiences will include interactive exhibits, Earth and Space toolkits with hands-on activities, videos, and media, and professional development materials for museums and educators.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/226396
