Public Statements
Governor Dayton Appoints Shereen M. Askalani Clemens, Charlene W. Hatcher, and Mark J. Kappelhoff to Fill Fourth Judicial District Vacancies
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 27, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Governor Mark Dayton announced the appointments of Shereen M. Askalani Clemens, Charlene W. Hatcher, and Mark J. Kappelhoff as District Court Judges in Minnesota's Fourth Judicial District. Ms. Askalani Clemens, Ms. Hatcher, and Mr. Kappelhoff are replacing the Honorable Herbert P. Lefler and the Honorable John Q. McShane, who retired earlier this year, and the Honorable Diane B. Bratvold whom Governor Dayton appointed to the Minnesota Court of Appeals. Ms. Askalani Clemens, Ms. Hatcher, and Mr. Kappelhoff will be chambered at Minneapolis in Hennepin County.

"Ms. Shereen Askalani Clemens, Ms. Charlene Hatcher, and Mr. Mark Kappelhoff have each demonstrated deep commitments to justice and public service, and have served Minnesotans exceptionally well throughout their distinguished legal careers," said Governor Dayton. "I congratulate them on their appointments as judges in the Fourth Judicial District and wish them all the best as they continue their service to Minnesota."

About Shereen M. Askalani Clemens
Ms. Askalani Clemens is an Assistant Ramsey County Attorney, where she works in the Prosecution Division primarily handling criminal sexual conduct, felony domestic assault, and homicide cases. Previously, she was an Assistant Ramsey County Attorney in the Juvenile and Child Support Divisions, a law clerk in the Hennepin County Attorney's Office, and a senior law clerk in the Hennepin County Public Defender's Office. Ms. Askalani Clemens earned her B.A. from Minnesota State University-Mankato and her J.D. from Hamline University School of Law.

Ms. Askalani Clemens is the immediate past President of the Minnesota State University, Mankato - College of Social and Behavioral Sciences Board, is a mentor for Minnesota Women Lawyers and at Mitchell Hamline School of Law, and previously served on the Minnesota Supreme Court Juvenile Rules Committee.

About Charlene W. Hatcher
Ms. Hatcher is the Chief Civil Deputy Hennepin County Attorney, where she is the chief advisor and negotiator to the County Attorney for all county department legal issues. Previously, she was the managing attorney of the Human Services Division and assistant county attorney in the Civil Division in the Hennepin County Attorney's Office, associate counsel at H.B. Fuller Company, special assistant Attorney General in the Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, and a business litigation associate at Robins Kaplan LLP. Mr. Hatcher earned her B.A.S. from the University of Minnesota-Twin Cities and her J.D. from William Mitchell College of Law.

Ms. Hatcher was a volunteer at Simpson's Women's Shelter, a medical mission team member in Cairo, Egypt, a Service Information Center volunteer, and a Sunday school teacher at Substance Church.

About Mark J. Kappelhoff
Mr. Kappelhoff is an Associate Clinical Professor of Law at the University of Minnesota Law School and Special Counsel in the Civil Rights Division in the Office of the Assistant Attorney General of the U.S. Department of Justice. Previously, in the Civil Rights Division he was a Deputy Assistant Attorney General and Chief of the Criminal Section. He was also a Special Assistant United States Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Minnesota and served as an Assistant Public Defender. Mr. Kappelhoff earned his B.S. from St. John's University and his J.D. from American University, Washington College of Law.

Mr. Kappelhoff serves on the Women's Foundation of Minnesota's MN Girls Are Not For Sale Committee and is on the Board of 180 Degrees, Inc.

Minnesota's Fourth Judicial District consists of Hennepin County.

More information on the Commission on Judicial Selection, as well as vacancies it is currently considering, can be found at http://mn.gov/governor/appointments/judicial-appointments/.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/226381
