Public Statements
Governor Dayton on Water Quality: "Failure is not an option"
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 21, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

My father, Bruce Dayton, taught me that good stewardship is one of our most important responsibilities: to take what we have been given, or have acquired, and leave it in better condition for those who will inherit it from us.

As Minnesotans, who have inherited this incredible state, we have no greater shared responsibility than our stewardship: to protect and improve the priceless natural resources, which we will pass on to our children and grandchildren. That wise stewardship is everyone's challenge and everyone's opportunity.

Tragically, in recent years, the quality of our water has deteriorated in many parts of our state. Too many lakes, rivers, streams, and ditches have become contaminated with potentially dangerous chemicals. In some communities, the surface and underground waters our citizens use for drinking, washing, work, and recreation are no longer safe.

There are a couple of contradictory trends here. The first is that as a state we are doing more and more to protect and improve our water quality. We are spending more public and private resources to achieve this important goal. The second, however, is that our water has become more polluted and less safe in many areas.

Those contradictions tell me two things. One, we're not doing enough to correct the problems. And two, we're doing too much to cause the problems.

They are simple conclusions. But in our complex environment, there are often no simple solutions. And there is often disagreement about how best to achieve them.

But ignoring our water quality problem is not the solution. Doing nothing will only make matters worse, by allowing problems to turn into crises. That is what happened in Flint, Michigan. We cannot let it happen here.

Which is why I have declared this week to be "Water Action Week" in Minnesota.

I challenge everyone to take actions that will lead to a new era of clean water in Minnesota.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/225122
