Public Statements
Minnesota Kids, Students Take Action for Water Quality
Statement
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 19, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

As Water Action Week continues, Governor Mark Dayton today will visit Willow Lane Elementary School in White Bear Lake and the University of Minnesota to see how Minnesota students are making a difference for water quality. Establishing an ethic of responsible stewardship needs to start early. That is why Governor Dayton is urging parents and teachers to talk with their children and students this week about the importance of water in our lives, and what Minnesotans can do -- even as children -- to leave a lasting legacy of clean water for this generation, and generations that follow.

"As Minnesotans, who have inherited this incredible state, we have no greater shared responsibility than our stewardship: to protect and improve the priceless natural resources, which we will pass on to our children and grandchildren. That wise stewardship is everyone's challenge and everyone's opportunity," said Governor Dayton. "We can preserve the best of what we have in Minnesota by behaving responsibly. By being wise stewards, we can bequeath clean water to future generations."

As Governor Dayton and Education Commissioner Brenda Cassellius prepare to visit Willow Lane Elementary, Commissioner Cassellius yesterday sent a message to school districts, encouraging schools to teach young people this week about the importance of water quality, and what kids can do to help. Minnesota kids, parents, and teachers can find simple lesson plans, watch short videos, and find new ways to make a positive impact on water quality by logging on to www.h2oforlifeschools.org. The user-friendly website is designed for children, families, and classrooms to engage together in the work necessary to improve the quality of our lakes, rivers, and drinking water systems.

"As the state with "Ten Thousand Lakes,' Minnesota is known throughout the nation for the incredibly beautiful bodies of water that lay within its borders," said Commissioner Cassellius. "I challenge every school in Minnesota to take some time this week to incorporate water conservation into the classroom. Just as we prepared our students for success in career and college, we must also provide them with the tools necessary to be good stewards of the Earth."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/223276
