Public Statements
Lt. Governor Tina Smith, Transportation Commissioner Zelle Talk Transportation and Rail Safety at Roundtable in Coon Rapids
Statement
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 8, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Lt. Governor Tina Smith and Transportation Commissioner Charlie Zelle participated in a roundtable discussion in Coon Rapids today focused on the need for investments in rail safety and a comprehensive transportation plan. Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith have proposed a 21st Century transportation plan that would make the sustainable, long-term investments necessary to build a better transportation network, spur Minnesota's innovation economy forward, and generate the great jobs of the future. In addition, the Governor and Lt. Governor have proposed $12.6 million for a highway rail grade separation in Coon Rapids as part of their Jobs Bill, to improve traffic, rail, and residential safety.

"Minnesota's roads, bridges, and transit networks form the backbone of our economy. After decades of decline, we must invest in these systems to protect Minnesota's long-term economic vitality," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "The plan proposed by Democrats would provide the resources we need to create a 21st Century transportation system and build an economy that works for all Minnesotans, everywhere in Minnesota."

Under Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith's plan, the City of Coon Rapids would receive an estimated $778,000 in additional annual transportation funding starting in 2019, while Anoka County would receive an additional $989,000 in annual funding for roads and bridges every year.

"The state's foremost experts agree on two things: this problem is real, and it cannot be resolved without a major investment," said Transportation Commissioner Zelle. "But Minnesotans didn't need a bipartisan panel of experts to tell them what they already know -- that our transportation system is in serious disrepair, and getting worse. This problem presents us with two simple and starkly different options: invest for the future, or do nothing and let the problem get much worse."

Modern roads, bridges, and transit systems are the foundation of an economy that works for all Minnesotans, everywhere in Minnesota. Businesses statewide need reliable roads and bridges to export their ideas and innovations to consumers around the globe. To attract and retain the best workers, Minnesota needs roadways, bridges, and transit systems that make it easy to get to work safely, affordably, and on-time.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/212969
