Public Statements
Lt. Governor Tina Smith Convenes Border-to-Border Broadband Access Roundtable Meeting in Becker
Statement
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 8, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Lt. Governor Tina Smith convened a meeting in Becker focused on the importance of ensuring that Minnesotans have reliable, affordable broadband internet access. In 2015, the City of Becker received a $152,000 broadband grant to provide high-speed connections to 21 underserved businesses in the Becker Industrial Park. Despite this progress, a 2016 study found that nearly 60 percent of all businesses in Sherburne County would like faster internet connections than are currently available to them. In addition, nearly four in ten businesses in the county believe slow speeds put them at a competitive disadvantage.

To help businesses and families like those in Sherburne County all across Minnesota, Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith have proposed a $100 million state investment to expand rural broadband internet access this year. This funding would leverage additional local and private resources to significantly expand access across Minnesota.

"Broadband isn't just nice, it's necessary if we want Minnesota's economy to work for everyone, everywhere in Minnesota. We need the bandwidth for Minnesota's regional centers and rural economies to support innovation and entrepreneurship," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "In partnership with communities and broadband providers, we can make progress for Minnesota. If we don't, 244,000 Minnesota households will continue to lack basic access to high-speed internet. We can, and must, do better than that."

Expanding Minnesota's broadband internet infrastructure to ensure border-to-border access for every Minnesotan could cost an estimated $900 million to $3.2 billion. The Governor and Lt. Governor's $100 million investment would jumpstart our expansion efforts to move Minnesota towards an innovation economy that works for everyone, everywhere in our state. And based on past grant funding, this investment would leverage at least $100 million more in private and local sources.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/215300
