Public Statements
Dennison Water Challenges Demonstrate Urgent Need to Invest in Minnesota's Aging, Under-Funded Drinking Water Systems
Statement
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 29, 2016
Location: Dennison, MN

In a continued push to invest $220 million in clean water infrastructure statewide, Lt. Governor Tina Smith today visited the City of Dennison, which urgently needs repairs to its local drinking water facilities. The City's lift station, which is critically important to provide clean, reliable water for the community was built in 1962, and is badly in need of repair. The cost to fix that lift station is $200,000 -- roughly twice the annual budget of the entire City. Until the lift station is replaced, Dennison Mayor Jeff Flaten must descend a 15-foot ladder underground every day to be sure the pumps are still working, and once a week must personally ensure there are no clogs in the wastewater system.

"The situation in Dennison vividly demonstrates the serious challenges facing small communities across Minnesota," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "The costs of making these improvements are enormous, and far too high for local ratepayers to shoulder alone. But the cost of continued inaction is much higher. Making sure that all Minnesotans have clean, affordable drinking water is a basic responsibility of government. Governor Dayton and I are committed to partnering with local communities to fulfill this basic commitment."

During the visit, Lt. Governor Smith and MMB Commissioner Myron Frans received a tour of Dennison's wastewater lift station and wet well from Mayor Jeff Flaten. Both were built more than 50 years ago and have not been upgraded in more than 20 years. The aging infrastructure also could fail at any time, which would cause sewage to flow into a neighboring creek and create service disruptions for residents. The facility's poor condition also has made it challenging for the City to find a full-time sewer operator, forcing Mayor Flaten to moonlight as the operator after his day job as a correctional officer.

Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor's Smith's would help small Minnesota communities, like the City of Dennison afford the cost of replacing infrastructure that was built decades ago. Without state assistance, it is estimated that Minnesotans in these communities could see their water and sewer bills double or even triple to cover the cost of necessary improvements, making it challenging for communities to keep and attract residents and businesses.

Source:
