Public Statements
Statements from Governor Dayton, Lt. Governor Smith, and Commissioners on President Trump's Executive Order to Roll Back Progress on Climate Change, Clean Water
By: Tina Smith Mark Dayton
Date: March 28, 2017
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, President Donald Trump issued an executive order that will reverse progress to address climate change and improve water quality. Governor Mark Dayton, Lt. Governor Tina Smith, and Commissioners released the following statements today in response to President Trump's executive order.

The following is a statement from Governor Mark Dayton:

"Today's action marks the latest in a series of destructive Executive Orders from President Trump. This new order will do irreparable damage to our environment and our economy. It will give a "license to pollute' to industries across the United States, at the expense of clean air, clean water, and clean energy.

"As damaging as this executive order will be for the nation, and for the world, it will not deter our efforts here in Minnesota. We will continue to build on the progress of our nation-leading Next Generation Energy Act, and redouble our commitment to providing clean, affordable water for all Minnesotans.

"Even as the Trump Administration seeks to roll back a decade of hard-fought progress, Minnesota will not flinch. We will show the nation what can be achieved by working together to solve the challenges facing our people, our economy, and our environment. We will share best practices with other states, and work with them to mitigate the damaging impacts of the President's dangerous and divisive policies."

The following is a statement from Lt. Governor Tina Smith:

"President Trump's decision to rollback back the Clean Power Plan is a terrible mistake. It hurts our ability to combat climate change, protect air quality, and capture the economic opportunity of clean energy.

"Governor Dayton and I won't retreat from progress here in Minnesota.
"Ten years ago, our state enacted the bipartisan Next Generation Energy Act and proved that we can have affordable, reliable, and clean energy. Now, because of bipartisan leadership and a sustained effort, more than 21 percent of Minnesota's electricity comes from renewable sources. We have made that progress while keeping electricity reliable and at affordable prices.

"Now is no time to turn back progress. Minnesota should press forward on clean, reliable and affordable energy, for the good or our climate, our environment and our economy."

The following is a statement from Commerce Commissioner Rothman, Pollution Control Commissioner Stine, Health Commissioner Ehlinger, and Employment and Economic Development Commissioner Hardy:

"President Trump's actions on climate are a clear step backwards for U.S. policy, and for our leadership standing in the world on one of the most critical issues of our time."
"In multiple rulings, the Supreme Court has made clear that the EPA has an obligation to reduce harmful greenhouse gas pollution under the Clean Air Act. In recent years the EPA moved to reduce pollution via the Clean Power Plan and other actions. This order will stall that progress, and would have detrimental effects on health and the economy."
"Although the president's actions hurt the interests of all Americans and defy what the science tells us we should be doing, they will not diminish the commitment to action in Minnesota. Our proven track record of success with clean energy and carbon pollution reduction will continue as we transition to a clean energy economy."

Source: https://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/285412
