Public Statements
After Efforts from Dayton, Klobuchar, Franken, and Nolan, White House Announces New Actions To Crack Down On Illegal Steel Dumping
Press Release
By: Rick Nolan Amy Klobuchar Mark Dayton Al Franken
Date: Feb. 25, 2016
Location: Washington, DC

After efforts from Governor Mark Dayton, U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representative Rick Nolan, the White House has announced new executive actions to crack down on illegal steel dumping. Lawmakers and the Governor have repeatedly called on the Administration to take action to curb steel dumping from countries like China. In December at the lawmakers' request, the White House sent Chief of Staff McDonough to the Iron Range to hear directly from affected workers.

The new executive actions from the White House will add Customs and Border Patrol personnel to enforce our trade laws, step up inspections of steel imports at our ports of entry, and increase personnel at the Commerce Department to help ensure tariffs are enforced against those who dump steel in the U.S. The President also signed legislation yesterday (HR 644) that will provide additional tools to more aggressively enforce anti-dumping provisions under existing federal law.

"I thank the President for signing this important legislation and for his additional initiatives to stop the dumping of foreign steel on U.S. markets," said Governor Mark Dayton. "These steps are urgently needed to prevent further damage to the lives and livelihoods of the great people on the Iron Range."

"To advocate for Iron Range workers, I have long called for the Administration to take tougher action to address the illegal dumping of steel on our shores, including stepping up inspections at our ports," said Klobuchar. "These new executive actions will help curb steel dumping and level the playing field for Minnesota's iron ore miners and steelworkers. The next step is for Congress to pass our bills to strengthen America's trade enforcement capabilities and ensure laid-off workers affected by steel dumping receive the support they deserve."

"I've been pushing for action from the Obama Administration for many months because communities and families across the Iron Range have been devastated by unfair foreign steel imports," Franken said. "We arranged for the President's top advisor to come to the Iron Range and see firsthand how these imports are stealing jobs and hurting the economy. I'm pleased that the Administration is starting to respond, but we need to more and continue taking necessary measures to get the Iron Range back on its feet."

"I am pleased to see the White House respond directly to our urgent call for action to ensure the survival of our iron ore mining and steel industries -- especially my request for additional staff to support and expedite our trade compliance workload," Nolan said. "Significantly bolstering the staff responsible for enforcement and strengthening countervailing and antidumping duty laws will help ensure the timely implementation of tough tariffs on hot-rolled, cold-rolled and corrosion-resistant steel products which are so vital to the Iron Range's recovery."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/154767
