Public Statements
Governor Dayton: Invest in Pre-Kindergarten Opportunities for 17,100 Minnesota Kids and their Families
By: Tina Smith Mark Dayton
Date: March 28, 2017
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton is calling for a $175 million investment to offer voluntary preK opportunities to 17,100 Minnesota four-year-olds and their families at more than 260 school districts across the state. The Governor's proposal, part of his Opportunity Agenda for a Better Minnesota, builds on the success of the current $25 million in funding for voluntary preK, which has helped 74 school districts across Minnesota offer voluntary preK to 3,300 four-year-olds. The Governor's proposed investment would offer voluntary preK funding to every school district that has applied for funding this year, extending opportunities to 13,800 new four-year-olds.

"Investing $175 million in voluntary preK this year will allow more than 17,000 Minnesota four-year-olds and their families to have access to better opportunities to succeed in school, and in our economy," said Governor Dayton. "I am appalled that anyone would use the best interests of Minnesota four-year-olds as a political bargaining chip. I urge House Republicans to invest in voluntary preK opportunities for our youngest learners this session."

"We know that access to high-quality, early learning is the best way to ensure every child enters Kindergarten ready to learn," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "The investments proposed by Governor Dayton will help more Minnesota four-year-olds and their families access the best opportunities, everywhere in our state."

In contrast to the Governor's proposed investments in voluntary preK, House Republicans have proposed eliminating funding for the voluntary offering entirely, instead stretching current resources even more thinly across other early education initiatives. Eliminating voluntary preK would mean that 74 school districts would no longer be able to offer this opportunity to 3,300 four-year-olds and their families across Minnesota.

"Offering voluntary preK to more Minnesota families will help close opportunity gaps, and help all our children succeed," said Commissioner Cassellius. "The Governor's proposal to offer voluntary preK to all school districts that have applied -- and serving an additional 17,100 children -- is a great step towards Minnesota's promise of an equitable and excellent education for all children."

Governor Dayton has taken an all-the-above approach to funding early childhood education in Minnesota. This approach allows more opportunities to reach more Minnesota students, allowing families to have the options and opportunities they need to make the best choices for their families. Since Governor Dayton took office, funding for early education efforts in Minnesota has tripled, from $114 million in base funding for 2012 and 2013, to $365 million in base funding for early education programs 2018 and 2019.

"Every family wants to do what's best for their children," said Cindy Stolp, Director of Community Education and Early Childhood for Pine City Schools. "It breaks my heart when a four-year-old shows up at our school with their backpack loaded up and ready to learn and we have to turn them away. I wish we could help every child, but right now, we can't."

"We are proud to offer families high-quality, affordable preschool," said Tom Umhoefer, Director of Community Education at Burnsville Public Schools. "This is the best investment we can make, and my staff are proud to offer this wonderful program. We cannot imagine our district without it, and we must continue to provide this essential option to our community."

"Voluntary Pre-K will not work the way it was intended when funding is continually at risk," said Jessica Cabeen, Principal of the Woodson Kindergarten Center in Austin and member of the Minnesota Elementary School Principals' Association. "To implement anything well we need time and assurances that what we start won't stop from year to year. We need reliable, stable funding so we can create and provide the best education for all students."

Across the 74 school districts that have received voluntary preK funding, and the additional 109 school districts which applied, but could not be funded, Minnesota schools, students, and families have demonstrated their interest in offering early education opportunities. Many school districts that are already receiving funding have altered staffing or spaces to support the new voluntary preK opportunities, and would now see those efforts made fruitless. Additionally, many working families rely on the busses and other transportation options made possible under voluntary preK, which would not be possible under other early education programs if voluntary preK opportunities are eliminated.

An All-The-Above Approach to Early Education
In addition to Governor Dayton's proposed investments to offer voluntary preK opportunities to more Minnesota families, the Governor's budget continues investments in other early learning programs, like scholarships, which are crucial pieces of the puzzle in expanding early education opportunities to more Minnesota students. Below, see other early education initiatives included in the Governor's budget:

Early Learning Scholarships -- Beginning with a $2 million investment in 2013, funding for early learning scholarships now totals nearly $60 million per year, or $120 million for the biennium, under Governor Dayton's budget. Over the last four years, this funding has supported more than 26,750 scholarships across Minnesota.

School Readiness -- Since Governor Dayton took office, funding for School Readiness has increased from roughly $10 million per year to more than $33 million per year. This school-based offering gives 3 and 4 year olds better opportunities to enter school with the necessary skills and behavior to succeed.

Early Childhood Family Education -- Early Childhood Family Education works to strengthen families, which can provide a child's first and most significant learning environment. Funding for the effort has increased by roughly $9.5 million since the Governor took office.

Head Start -- Head Start supports the comprehensive development of children from birth to age 5 to promote school readiness for young children from low-income families. Head Start services include early learning, health, and family well-being. Under Governor Dayton's leadership, funding for Head Start has increased by $10 million

Source: https://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/285341
