Public Statements
Governor Dayton Wants to Crack-Down on Illegal Poaching
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 15, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

As a life-long hunter and angler, Governor Mark Dayton today proposed significant reforms to Minnesota's poaching laws this session. At the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources' (DNR) Annual Roundtable today, Governor Dayton reiterated his push to enact more stringent penalties for those who intentionally violate the state's hunting and fishing laws.

The Governor's push for tougher poaching penalties comes in the wake of numerous high-profile instances of illegal poaching activity in Minnesota. By enacting more severe consequences for these crimes, Governor Dayton and the DNR hope to deter illegal poaching, and ensure these criminal acts are properly and thoroughly punished.

"The recently reported instances of wanton and wasteful poaching in Minnesota should offend the sensibilities of all ethical and law-abiding hunters and anglers," said Governor Dayton. "They are shameful criminal acts, and they should be treated as serious offenses by Minnesota laws. I ask our state's sportsmen and sportswomen to join me in urging the legislature to increase the penalties for these disgusting abuses."

Governor Dayton's poaching reform proposal would enact stiffer criminal penalties and longer license revocations for anyone who unlawfully takes and possesses significant numbers of wild animals. The Governor's proposal would establish a new felony-level penalty for poaching, and revoke game and fish licenses and privileges for a period of up to ten years. Current law only includes up to a gross misdemeanor penalty for poaching and license revocations of up to only five years.

"Gross over-limit violations are not accidental," said DNR Commissioner Tom Landwehr. "The reforms being championed by Governor Dayton reflect the values of responsible Minnesota hunters and anglers. This proposal would enact strong and appropriate penalties for those who intentionally disregard the ethical and legal boundaries of hunting and fishing in Minnesota."

Minnesota's game and fish laws are intended to balance and maintain healthy populations of wild animals, recreational hunting and fishing opportunities, and sustainable commercial uses -- now and for future generations. Under the Governor's proposal, the felony penalty for poaching would apply to individuals who unlawfully take animals above a restitution value of $2,000. Gross over-limit penalty thresholds are based on the wildlife restitution values set in law, which include:












Source:
