Public Statements
Blog: After Call from Dayton, Klobuchar, Franken, and Nolan, Department of Labor Approves Trade Adjustment Assistance for Steel Workers and Miners Impacted by Layoffs
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Dec. 16, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

Governor Mark Dayton, U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Rick Nolan, today announced that the Department of Labor (DOL) has approved Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petitions for steelworkers and miners who have been impacted by recent layoffs at the Magnetation plant. The lawmakers urged the Department of Labor to expedite approval of TAA petitions submitted by workers from the affected mining operations.
"Steelworkers on the Iron Range urgently need help as they endure the serious economic consequences of illegal foreign steel dumping," said Governor Mark Dayton. "I thank Secretary Perez for expediting benefits for laid off steelworkers at Magnetation LLC. But now we need to get to the root of the problem. We look forward to meeting with White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough next week to discuss steps the Administration can take to fight back against the illegal dumping of foreign steel."

"The hard-working steelworkers and miners who were affected by recent layoffs on the Iron Range received good news today," Klobuchar said. "The Department of Labor responded to our call to approve these benefits, and now our Iron Range workers will have the support they need and deserve to help them get back on their feet."

"Minnesota's iron ore and steel workers are the best in the world," Franken said. "But right now, many of them are sitting on the sidelines waiting for our mining operations--businesses that closed because of illegal foreign trade practices--to reopen. I'm fighting to improve the Range economy, and in the meantime, I want to make sure that workers who have been laid off can get the support and assistance they need. I'm glad that, at our urging, the Department of Labor is going to ensure that Minnesotans who were hurt by the closing at Magnetation will be eligible for critical training and education benefits."

"We are grateful to the Administration for expediting our request for Trade Adjustment Assistance, as well as to President Obama for sending his Chief of Staff, Denis McDonough, to the Range next week so he can report back to the President on how this crisis in our mining and steel industries is affecting our region -- as well as our national economy and our national security," Nolan said. "But first and foremost, we need to get the Iron Range back to work. To do that, we need to get at the heart of the problem, and put a stop to the illegal dumping of millions of tons of low-grade, foreign government-subsidized steel that's flooding our domestic marketplace, costing us thousands of good-paying jobs and threatening the very existence of our mining and steel industries."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/blog/the-office-of-the-governor-blog-entry-detail.jsp?id=102-177153
