Public Statements
New Study Confirms Minnesota Tobacco Tax Positively Impacting Smoking Rates
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 9, 2017
Location: St. Paul, MN

A new research study confirms that Minnesota's tobacco tax is positively impacting smoking rates in the state. The research study, led by the Minnesota Department of Health (MDH), shows that among Minnesotans who successfully quit smoking in the past year, 63 percent reported that the price increase helped them make a quit attempt and helped keep them from smoking again.

"This new study makes clear that making cigarettes less easily accessible to children and adults means fewer Minnesotans start smoking, and are more likely to quit," said Governor Dayton. "It is reprehensible that Minnesota Republicans have prioritized more than $300 million in tax breaks to big tobacco in the next decade, over the fiscal integrity of the state and the best interests of Minnesotans. I urge Republicans to return to the table to correct their grave errors, for the future of our state."

Data from the Minnesota Adult Tobacco Survey shows that the tobacco tax implemented by the Minnesota Legislature in 2013 resulted in 61 percent of survey respondents considering quitting smoking; 48 percent cutting down on smoking; and over 44 percent attempting to quit.

"This study clearly demonstrates that the tobacco tax helps smokers in communities around the state quit," said Health Commissioner Ehlinger. "The tobacco tax inflator ensures that the positive effects highlighted in this study can be sustained over time to reduce tobacco use among children and adults across Minnesota. Republicans' move to eliminate the inflator this session greatly weakens this important public health tool."

Smokers of lower socioeconomic status are disproportionately impacted by the health effects of tobacco, and saw particularly positive impacts in the new study. The MDH-led study found these Minnesotans were nearly twice as likely to take steps to reduce their tobacco use, as compared to other smokers.

"The 2013 tobacco tax increase has prevented smoking and motivated quitting in Minnesota. By pointing out the tobacco tax cuts in the tax bill, and reminding us all how those cuts help tobacco companies, Governor Dayton is helping to create a healthier future for our whole state, and preventing Big Tobacco from hurting our kids," said Molly Moilanen, Director of Public Affairs at ClearWay Minnesota and Co-Chair of Minnesotans for a Smoke-Free Generation. "That's why I call on leaders of both parties. Come back to remove these tax breaks, which benefit an industry that creates death and disease, and drives up costs for everyone. Use tobacco prices and cessation options as tools to reduce smoking. It's common sense."

Raising the price of cigarettes and other tobacco products makes them too expensive for kids to buy, and can give people who smoke an incentive to quit. Since the tobacco tax became law in 2013, smoking has decreased by one third among Minnesota's 11th graders.

"The majority of my friends are 15, 16 and 17 years old. I would guess about half of them use tobacco products," said Meghan McFarling, Mounds View High School Student. "This year, the Legislature decided to make cigars cheaper. Well, I've seen from other kids how smokers start with the cheap products, because you can afford them. I want to thank Governor Dayton for helping protect our teens and future generations to come from these dangerous and deadly products. I hope Minnesota lawmakers are listening and will join us!"

"Cigars appeal a lot to young men who look like me. They make guys feel important, like they're rich and powerful. And once you try it, you're hooked," said Traielle Godfrey of St. Paul, who works to prevent youth tobacco use. "At the Capitol, when they agreed to cut the price on cigars, I don't know what they were thinking. I don't know how they thought they could get away with it. I'm glad the Governor noticed and is trying to make other people notice. Thank you, Governor. I hope they listen to you."

In addition to reducing tobacco use, Minnesota's tobacco tax also has a potentially powerful effect on reducing health care costs. In Minnesota, smoking was responsible for $3.2 billion in excess medical expenditures in 2014.

"I have learned many lessons through my experiences as an oncology nurse and the caregiver for family members who faced a cancer diagnosis. One in particular stands out today," said Ann Deshler, a volunteer with the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network. "The tobacco industry doesn't care about the health of Minnesotans. It only cares about its profits. We have to do everything we can to protect our youth, and one of the best ways to do that is to keep tobacco taxes in place."

About Minnesota Republicans' Tobacco Tax Cut
In 2013, the Minnesota Legislature passed a law that increased the tax on tobacco, raising taxes on cigarettes by $1.60 per pack. The law also made sure that the price of tobacco would continue to increase in future years, to keep up with the rising cost of inflation.

But this year, Minnesota Republicans pushed for a tax cut for big tobacco and premium cigars. This tax cut would eliminate the inflator passed in 2013, and would amount to more than $300 million in tax cuts for big tobacco over the next ten years.

Governor Dayton's Message to Republican Leaders
Governor Dayton is calling on Republican Leaders to return to the table, to correct their tax giveaways to big tobacco, the estates of multimillionaires, and big businesses. Governor Dayton is also calling on Republicans to drop their regulations on drivers and teachers licenses that seek to further divide Minnesotans, and ignore the expertise of police officers and teachers across our state. To read Governor Dayton's message to Republican Leaders, click here.

Source: https://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/299041
