Public Statements
Statement from Governor Dayton on Congressional Republican Healthcare Proposal
Statement
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 14, 2017
Location: St. Paul, MN

Yesterday, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released its analysis of the Congressional House Republican healthcare proposal. The following is a statement from Governor Mark Dayton.

"Unfortunately, the proposal from Congressional House Republicans would make healthcare less affordable and accessible to many Minnesotans. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates 14 million more Americans would be uninsured in 2018 and that number would grow to 24 million by 2026. It also would reduce subsidies for low-income, middle-income, and older Minnesotans. Greater Minnesota would be hit the hardest, because the Republican tax credit does not recognize that healthcare costs more in some parts of our state.
"Worst of all, the House Republican bill limits Medicaid funding. Minnesota could lose as much as $2 billion in federal funds for Medicaid and MinnesotaCare within 18 months. This would put coverage at risk for 1.2 million Minnesota seniors, children, and people with disabilities. Those federal funding cuts would grow in future years and jeopardize health care for the most vulnerable among us. By 2030, Minnesota could lose $27.8 billion in federal funding under the House Republican plan.
"Furthermore, their plan would give $275 billion in tax cuts to the richest Americans over the next ten years.
"Changes are needed, at both the state and federal level, to make healthcare more affordable and accessible to Minnesotans, not less. That is why Minnesota lawmakers came together in a bipartisan fashion to agree to my proposed healthcare premium relief plan this year. And it is why I have proposed a "MinnesotaCare Buy-In,' to give Minnesotans another good choice for health insurance, which would increase options and reduce costs across our state.
"The Congressional House Republican plan would reduce both access and affordability. I urge Congress to reject it."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/284023
