Public Statements
Governor Dayton Appoints Tony Sertich to Minnesota Sports Facilities Authority
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 3, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today announced the appointment of Tony Sertich to the board of the Minnesota Sports Facilities Authority (MSFA). Sertich, a former state legislative leader from greater Minnesota, is currently President of the Northland Foundation, a community foundation focused on rural Minnesota people and communities. Sertich has been appointed to fill the vacancy created by the recent resignation of MSFA member Duane Benson.
"Tony Sertich has successfully led major economic development projects," said Governor Dayton. " He is also experienced in bringing fractious leaders together to achieve their shared goals. Both of these skills will be valuable additions to the MSFA Board."
The MSFA was established by the Minnesota Legislature in 2012 and charged with the design, construction and operation of a new multi-purpose stadium in downtown Minneapolis, now known as U.S. Bank Stadium. The MSFA consists of five part-time members: three, including the Chair, are appointed by the Governor, with two additional members appointed by the City of Minneapolis.
"I am honored to have been selected by Governor Dayton to serve in this role," said Sertich. "As a voice for rural Minnesota, I look forward to working with my fellow MSFA members to guide the stadium construction project to a timely and successful close."
Since January of this year, Sertich has served as President of the Northland Foundation, a community foundation focused on rural Minnesota people and communities. Previously, as a state Commissioner, Sertich lead the effort on Governor Dayton's "Unsession," a first-of-its-kind effort to make state government better, faster, simpler, and more efficient for Minnesotans. While serving in the Minnesota House of Representatives for over a decade, Sertich worked on the conference committee for TCF Stadium, and authored and worked on significant legislation regarding Target Field. At age 30, Sertich was the youngest person ever to be elected House Majority Leader in Minnesota history. Sertich has also worked as the business manager of a 30-year, family small business for the past ten years. A graduate of Hamline University, Sertich received a Bachelor of Arts degree with a double major in political science and theater arts.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-169321
