Public Statements
Statements from Governor Mark Dayton and Lt. Governor Tina Smith on "Women's History Month" in Minnesota
Statement
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 8, 2017
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton has proclaimed March to be "Women's History Month" in the State of Minnesota. While women's history should be celebrated and studied throughout the year, this is a time to observe the role women have played in shaping Minnesota's history, and the critical role all women play in shaping our state's future.

Today's proclamation comes as WalletHub recently released a new national study ranking Minnesota the best state in the nation for women. The study also ranks Minnesota 1st in the nation for Women's Economic and Social Well-Being, and 5th for Women's Health Care and Safety. You can read the WalletHub report by clicking here.

The following is a statement from Governor Mark Dayton:

"During Women's History Month, I urge all Minnesotans to reflect on the significant achievements that have been made by women in our state, and across our country. These rankings from WalletHub underscore the great progress we have made. But our work is not done. We must continue to stand up for equality and inclusion at all levels in our state, including equal pay for equal work, protecting reproductive rights and access to health care, charting the course for paid parental leave, and expanding economic opportunity for all women in Minnesota."

Today also marks International Women's Day, and the national "A Day Without a Woman," recognizing the great value that women contribute to our economy and society.

The following is a statement from Lt. Governor Tina Smith:

"On January 21, 2017, I marched in St. Paul with almost 100,000 men and women for our shared values: freedom, independence, and opportunity for everyone. Today, we take the next step. "A Day Without a Woman' reminds us that every day, 2,727,005 Minnesota women do their jobs, take care of their families, and make our communities work. Our economy, our schools, and our communities ought to work for women as well as women work for us."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/283071
