Public Statements
Council Working to Enhance Diversity and Inclusion in State Government
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 6, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

A new report issued today by the Governor's Diversity and Inclusion Council updates policymakers on the Council's work to improve diversity in the state's workforce and business supplier chain, and more equitably engage diverse people, communities, and businesses in the work of state government. The report describes the Council's plans to enhance diversity in the workplace, improve access to state government contracts for minority-owned businesses, and actively engage diverse communities in developing state policies.
"A government that serves all the people of Minnesota should reflect all of Minnesota," said Governor Dayton. "We must ensure that all of our citizens have equal opportunities to work for their state government, to do business with the state, and to participate fully in our democracy. This report, and the continuing work of the Council, will help us achieve those vitally important goals."
The Dayton Administration has already hired a full-time Statewide Recruiter who is charged with identifying candidates from diverse communities to fill senior leadership roles and other key positions throughout state government. That work is essential to achieving a more diverse state workforce. The work of the Governor's Diversity and Inclusion Council is supplementing those efforts, by taking a holistic approach to analyzing and improving the way state government engages, employs, and does business with diverse individuals and communities.
The Governor's Diversity and Inclusion Council, which is chaired by Governor Dayton, began its work on January 20, 2015. The Council's work is divided into three committees: Employment Practices, chaired by MMB Commissioner Myron Frans; Contracting Practices, chaired by Administration Commissioner Matt Massman; and Civic Engagement Practices, chaired by Human Rights Commissioner Kevin Lindsey.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-166971
