Public Statements
Governor Dayton proclaims July "Hire a Veteran Month"
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 2, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton issued a proclamation declaring the month of July to be "Hire a Veteran Month" in Minnesota. Employers are encouraged to help connect military service members with employment opportunities during the month of July -- and to continue hiring veterans throughout the year.

"Hiring veterans is one of the best investments businesses can make in the future success of their companies and of our state," said Governor Mark Dayton. "Veterans have the skills Minnesota employers are looking for including leadership, intelligence, and dedication. They also have proven their abilities to perform at the highest levels under all kinds of pressures and conditions."

As part of "Hire a Veteran Month," veterans are also encouraged to participate in the state's largest Veterans Career Fair being held July 15 at the Earle Brown Heritage Center in Brooklyn Center from 10:00 a.m.--3:00 p.m.

During "Hire a Veteran Month," the Minnesota Veterans Career Fair -- sponsored by the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development (DEED) and the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs (MDVA) -- will be focused exclusively on connecting veterans and military service members with employment opportunities. More than 1,000 former and current military members and 170 Minnesota businesses with job opportunities are expected to participate.

"Minnesota's largest Veterans Career Fair is a unique opportunity for our men and women in uniform to connect with our state's employers with job openings ready to fill," said DEED Commissioner Katie Clark Sieben. "Each year, this event grows in the number of employers that are seeking new talent, and we are grateful for their participation in this important effort."

This is the ninth year DEED has hosted a Veterans Career Fair. In a survey of businesses that participated in last year's Veterans Career Fair, 40 percent of businesses taking the survey reported hiring someone they met at the fair. More information about the Career Fair is available at mn.gov/deed/vcf.

Connecting Veterans with Employment Opportunities

"Hire a Veteran Month" -- including the Career Fair on July 15 -- is part of a broader effort by the Dayton Administration to help Minnesota veterans find meaningful, good-paying work. Through recruitment and retention efforts, relationships with veterans' organizations and advocates, support for deployed soldiers and their families, and reintegration training, Minnesota is getting our veterans back to work in a number of ways:

Hilton Honors : Minnesota was one of four states selected last year for a new pilot program offering free hotel accommodations for military veterans searching for jobs in Minnesota. DEED works with the Hilton Hotels Worldwide and the National Association of State Workforce Agencies in this program to provide this service to veterans. Since the program launched last year, 36 veterans have participated in Minnesota.

National Governors Association Policy Academy Grant: Minnesota also was among six states awarded a National Governors Association Policy Academy Grant to develop processes and procedures for granting college credit for military experience and training. One result is that more returning veterans will be eligible to take the state's Peace Officers Standards Training exam, making them qualified for employment with Minnesota's law enforcement agencies.

DEED Veterans Employment Services : DEED provides specialized staff to work with eligible veterans. In addition, a dedicated website provides information and resources for all current and former Minnesota military service members who are seeking employment, including tips on how to find a job, a list of career events for veterans, employment services and more. Minnesota employers seeking to hire veterans also will find specific information designed for them.

Minnesota WorkForce Centers : Veterans seeking employment are encouraged to visit their local WorkForce Center. Veterans of all ages and eras receive priority service at Minnesota WorkForce Centers. Some veterans facing significant barriers to employment may also be eligible for intensive services from specially trained veteran employment representatives. Each center provides assistance on resume and cover letter writing, practice with interviewing and referrals to support services. Each year, Minnesota WorkForce Centers serve approximately 20,000 Minnesota veterans. A list of Minnesota WorkForce Centers is available on the website. Veterans can also find their local WorkForce Center by calling 1-888-GET-JOBS (1-888-438-5627).

MinnesotaWorks.net : The state's largest job bank, MinnesotaWorks.net allows employers who post openings to designate a job "military-friendly" to encourage veterans to apply. Job seekers registering on the site are asked whether they have served in the U.S. military. If they answer "yes," then job postings with the military-friendly designation appear at the top of their job search results. Similarly, resumes of veteran job seekers automatically appear at the top of employers' resume search results.

MyMilitary GPS Lifeplan : MyMilitary GPS LifePlan helps veterans, service members and their families set goals and design plans that will lead them to the success they desire in career and life. This website, which walks veterans step-by-step through the goal-setting process, is a partnership between the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system, the Minnesota Army National Guard and the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs Higher Education Veterans Programs -- MyMilitaryEducation.org .

Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs (MDVA) : The MDVA has a website dedicated to helping Minnesota veterans connect to employment resources. The website also has links and helpful information for employers that want to hire veterans, as well as information about on-the-job training and apprenticeships, state veterans preference laws, and tips for veterans who own businesses.

Yellow Ribbon Company Program : Throughout Minnesota, companies and corporations are making a commitment to military service members and veterans. The Yellow Ribbon Company Program is one example of how Minnesota companies go above and beyond. This program allows companies to make a formal and meaningful commitment to hiring veterans.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-166915
