Public Statements
First Steps For Better Water Quality Start Today in Minnesota
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 1, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, the first component of one of Governor Mark Dayton's major legislative priorities will take effect in Minnesota. Beginning Wednesday, July 1, 2015, funding to begin the implementation of the water quality buffer initiative becomes available to local Soil and Water Districts across Minnesota. Local Soil and Water Conservation Districts will begin hiring staff to provide technical assistance for Minnesotans as they implement new buffers, and help eligible landowners enroll in federal funding programs.
"Minnesotans are united as stewards of our lakes, rivers and streams," said Governor Dayton. "I thank Representative Paul Torkelson and Senator John Marty for their work on this very important measure. By working together, we can greatly improve the quality of our waters across our great state."
Additional components of the law will take effect over the next several years, as farmers and landowners work to implement buffers on their properties. Buffers must be in place on all public waters by November 1, 2017. Buffers on public drainage systems will be in place by November 1, 2018. A complete timeline of when different components of the law will take effect is available on the state's buffer initiative information website.
About the Buffer Initiative
Following a series of reports highlighting a concerning decline in water quality across Minnesota, Governor Dayton and lawmakers worked throughout the legislative session with farmers, landowners, environmental advocates, and public health experts to develop a solution that will reduce runoff and improve water quality. Together, they enacted legislation that will help significantly improve water quality in Minnesota.
The new buffer law will designate roughly 110,000 acres of land for buffer strips alongside Minnesota's waterways. These new perennial vegetation buffers along rivers, streams, and ditches, will help filter out phosphorus, nitrogen, and sediment before it enters the water supply. With the support of local Soil and Water Conservation Districts, the new law will provide flexibility and financial assistance for landowners to install and maintain buffers, and boost compliance with buffer laws across Minnesota.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-166794
