Public Statements
Governor Dayton Appoints Two to MNsure Board
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 1, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Governor Mark Dayton announced the appointment of two individuals to fill vacancies on a seven-member board responsible for managing and operating MNsure. The new board members, Edgardo Rodriguez and Martha Eaves, were chosen through the state's open appointments process. Board members serve staggered four-year terms. With the exception of the Commissioner of Human Services, all members are limited to two terms of service.
Ms. Eaves will be replacing Thompson Aderinkomi as the Representative of Consumers Eligible for Individual Coverage and Mr. Rodriguez will be replacing Brian Beutner as the Representative of Small Employers. The terms of both appointees will expire on July 6, 2019.
"Martha Eaves and Edgardo Rodriguez will bring a broad array of experience and expertise to the MNsure Board," said Governor Dayton. "Their collective breadth of knowledge, and commitment to the successful development and delivery of Minnesota's health care marketplace, will serve the best interests of all Minnesotans."
Board members appointed today by Governor Dayton include:
Edgardo Rodriguez, Metropolitan Economic Development Association (MEDA) Business Consultant -- Edgardo Rodriguez was born and raised in Puerto Rico. Mr. Rodriguez graduated from the University of Puerto Rico with a B.S. in Business Administration and received his CPA from the University of New York. Mr. Rodriguez served as a public accountant for Price Waterhouse in New York, and was president of the Venezuelan Food Division International Multifoods Corporation for over 30 years. He has also served on the board at the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and the Chicano Latino Affairs Council.
Martha Eaves, Retired Attorney, Southern Minnesota Regional Legal Services (SMRLS) -- Martha Eaves served as an attorney for Southern Minnesota Regional Legal Services for 37 years. Ms. Eaves helped to establish Project HOPE (Homeless Outreach Prevention and Education) to help prevent homelessness by giving free legal advice to homeless, or near homeless, people living in Ramsey County. This program has since become a national model. Ms. Eaves serves as a volunteer tutor for first graders at Barack and Michelle Obama Elementary School in St. Paul. She also volunteers for East Side/Neighborhood House where she reviews cases on behalf of families who are experiencing or at risk of homelessness and have a mental illness, medical condition, or a co-occurring substance use disorder.

Source:
