Public Statements
Minnesota Receives $38 Million in Federal Grants for Veterans Homes
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 28, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today announced that the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs (MDVA) will receive a federal grant totaling $38 million for the construction of a skilled care nursing facility, and infrastructure tying the existing and future complex together at the Minneapolis Veterans Home.
"Through their service to our state and nation, Minnesota's veterans have earned the best possible care," said Governor Dayton. "These new federal resources, and the state's financial commitment to these projects, will provide state-of-the-art facilities and equipment that will help ensure our veterans receive high-quality care for years to come."
For 128 years, the Minneapolis Veterans Home has provided care to Minnesota's veterans. Today, Governor Dayton announced the state will receive a $38 million federal grant to complete the renovation and expansion of the facility, including the construction of a modern skilled nursing facility. The project will also include a tunnel connecting all of the skilled nursing buildings on the Veterans Home campus. The Governor and Legislature provided $18.9 million of state matching funds for the project in the 2013 Jobs Bill. Construction on the third and final phase of the project will begin in May 2016.
"This federal grant will provide important updates to our 128-year-old campus and complete the three-phase campus redevelopment at the Minneapolis Veterans Home," said Veterans Affairs Commissioner Larry Shellito. "The Minneapolis Veterans Home, and our other four Veterans Homes across the state, have bright futures thanks to investment and support from our State and Federal partners."
While waiting for federal grant funding, the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs continued moving forward, earning multiple "Best in Class" ratings and approval to provide Medicare reimbursable services. Over the last year, MDVA launched the nation's first tele-health system between a State Veterans Home and a VA Medical Center, redesigned the safety program, rolled out new memory loss programs and made significant enhancements in the area of electronic health records.

Source:
