Public Statements
Governor Mark Dayton to Host 68th Annual Governor's Fishing Opener
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 7, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

As nearly 500,000 Minnesotans gear up to go fishing this weekend, Governor Mark Dayton is getting ready to host Minnesota's 68th Annual Governor's Fishing Opener at Lake Vermilion in Tower, Minnesota. Headquartered at Fortune Bay Casino, the weekend's events will feature fishing, family fun activities, and a community picnic in downtown Tower that is expected to draw a crowd of more than 2,000 Minnesotans.

"I thank the Lake Vermilion area communities, and Fortune Bay casino, for their tremendous work in hosting this year's Governor's Fishing Opener," said Governor Dayton. "Lt. Governor Tina Smith and I are looking forward to this weekend's events. With help from my great fishing guide, Buck Lescarbeau, and a little bit of luck, I hope to catch a fish this weekend."

The Governor's Fishing Opener has been a tradition in Minnesota since 1948. The event was designed to promote the development of Minnesota's recreation industry, and in recent years, it has served as a kick-off celebration for the summer tourism season. Fishing generates an estimated $2.4 billion in direct retail sales annually in Minnesota, supporting 35,000 jobs statewide. Minnesota has the second-highest angler participation rate of any state in the nation (32 percent).

"Minnesota has a proud fishing tradition. This weekend more than 500,000 anglers are expected to participate in the opener," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "Governor Dayton and I are looking forward to celebrating the season's start at Lake Vermilion, which is home to great fishing and recreational opportunities."

For more information about the 2015 Governor's Fishing Opener, including a full list of public events, visit this website. Photos of Governor Dayton, Lt. Governor Tina Smith, and various Fishing Opener activities will be posted online at this link throughout the weekend.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-161989
