Public Statements
New Drinking Water Report Names Nitrate Contamination as Growing Challenge in Minnesota
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 6, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton and Health Commissioner Dr. Ed Ehlinger today released the findings of the state's annual drinking water report, which show nitrate levels in drinking water supplies are of increasing concern in Minnesota. Elevated levels of nitrate -- which can lead to Blue Baby Syndrome in infants and other adverse human health effects -- have caused an increasing number of Minnesota communities to install expensive nitrate treatment systems to ensure their water supplies are safe to drink. Some communities have resorted to temporarily distributing bottled water to their residents after detecting unsafe levels of nitrates in their drinking water. The report released today, which was compiled by the Minnesota Department of Health (MDH), also shows that as much as 10 percent of small ("non-community") drinking water systems in the state have source water with elevated levels of nitrate -- which is a significant cause of concern for human health.
"This report underscores the urgent need for action this session to improve water quality in our state," said Governor Dayton. "Bad water threatens our health, our economy, and our future. We must take steps now to improve water quality throughout our state. The cost of delay is unacceptably high."
"We all need to be involved in helping to protect our drinking water sources from contamination," said Commissioner Ehlinger. "Personal decisions regarding everything from the products we use to how land is managed for industry and agriculture have significant impacts on our environment and ultimately our drinking water."
The Minnesota Department of Health is responsible for safeguarding the quality of the state's drinking water, and for enforcing the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act in Minnesota. The report issued today -- which has been conducted annually since 1995 -- studied Minnesota's 961 "community water systems," including towns, cities and non-municipal systems that provide drinking water to people in their homes. The report also studied the state's 5,926 "non-community water systems," which serve water to people in places outside their homes, like schools, factories, and resorts. Water samples from those systems were subjected to more than 22,000 separate tests for more than 100 potential contaminants.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-161924
