Public Statements
Governor Dayton, DFL Legislators Strongly Oppose Bill Allowing Unlimited Campaign Contributions from Special Interests
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 4, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton and DFL legislative leaders are taking a stand this session to limit the influence of lobbyists and special interest groups in Minnesota elections. Governor Dayton, joined by Rep. Paul Thissen, Sen. Katie Sieben, and Rep. Ryan Winkler, spoke out today against a provision in the House State Government Finance Bill that would open the floodgates of unlimited financial contributions from lobbyists and special interests in state elections.
"A terrible decision by the United States Supreme Court opened the flood gates for undisclosed, large contributions to try to buy the political process," said Governor Mark Dayton. "This is the Republican Party's attempt in Minnesota to extend that statewide, and open the floodgates still further. I salute the legislators who are here today for their strong opposition, and I join them in that opposition."
The bill (SF888), which was passed by the House GOP over the objections of every single DFL lawmaker, would eliminate campaign spending limits for candidates for governor, constitutional offices, and state legislative races. It would also allow unlimited contributions from political action committees (PACs) or lobbyists. Meanwhile, the legislation would eliminate Minnesota's public campaign finance program in its entirety -- limiting the ability of Minnesota citizens to participate in the democratic process.
"This is an attempt to concentrate more political power in the hands of corporate special interests while making it harder for the average Minnesota to have a voice in their government," said House DFL Leader Paul Thissen. "All session we have seen this House Republican majority put corporate special interests ahead of Minnesotans and this is the worst example. They are trying to give more influence to the well-connected insiders that already have plenty. We should be making it easier for Minnesotans to participate in their state government, not less."

Source:
