Public Statements
Governor Mark Dayton Hosts Turkey Lunch for Interns, Promoting Minnesota-Grown Turkey
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 29, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Governor Mark Dayton hosted a Minnesota-grown turkey lunch at the Governor's Residence for interns who are working this spring in the Office of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor. The lunch featured a 25-pound turkey, which was raised in Glenwood, Minnesota. Minnesota is the nation's largest producer of turkeys, with 450 farmers raising approximately 46 million turkeys annually, and generating nearly $800 million in economic activity every year.
Governor Dayton hosts office interns for lunch every semester to recognize their service to the State of Minnesota.
"As turkey farmers across our state deal with the devastating effects of avian influenza, it is more important than ever for all Minnesotans to support the Minnesota turkey industry," said Governor Dayton. "Our turkey growers need more than our help in stopping the spread of this disease; they need our full support as consumers to buy and eat good Minnesota turkey."

According to the Minnesota Department of Health, the Minnesota Department of Agriculture, and the nation's leading health experts, despite the discovery of avian flu in some turkey flocks, turkey is 100 percent safe to eat. Properly handled poultry and poultry products, such as eggs, are absolutely safe to eat. There is no public health risk for any humans who have not had direct contact with infected birds.

"The poultry industry is really important in Stearns County, where I'm from," said Harold Melcher, Senior at the University of Minnesota. "Last night, I was talking with friends of mine that are farmers, and we discussed the impact that the turkey industry has on the rest of Minnesota's economy. It's important for Minnesotans to know that turkey is safe to eat because it supports so many communities in our state."
"It's wonderful to be able to have a conversation with the Governor, and to have our contributions this semester recognized," said Madelyn Nelson, Senior at Macalester College. "The turkey was delicious too!"

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-161591
