Public Statements
New Report Shines Light on Water Quality Concerns in Minnesota
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 29, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

A new report released today by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) provides additional evidence that agricultural and urban runoff is contributing significantly to the impairment of Minnesota's lakes, rivers, and streams. The new study, which monitored half of the state's 81 major watersheds, takes an in-depth look at the lakes and streams in major drainage areas. According to the MPCA, it is unlikely that current or new clean water funding can significantly improve the deteriorating conditions of many of the state's waters -- unless the state employs new strategies to prevent the pollution from happening in the first place.
"This report underscores that water quality is a widespread problem," said Governor Mark Dayton. "There are many different sources of the problem, and there are many different solutions, and they vary from one part of the state to another. But, everyone has to be part of the solution. The solution really has to be to engage Minnesotans in this undertaking and see this as part of our responsibility as citizens, and as stewards of our state. "
The study, "Swimmable, Fishable, Fixable?", found that poor water quality is concentrated in certain regions of the state, especially in southern Minnesota. MPCA researchers noted that in heavily farmed areas, surrounding lakes and streams had high levels of nitrogen, phosphorus and sediment. These high levels make it difficult to support aquatic life, and in some cases prohibit people from swimming in lakes and streams. The report's findings conclude that poor water quality in southern Minnesota waters is caused predominantly by agricultural runoff. Urban areas also suffer from elevated levels of water pollution caused by runoff.
"We have seen many of these patterns developing over the last 20 years. With the comprehensive watershed information we are gathering, we are much closer to a diagnosis that can point us toward the changes that need to happen," said MPCA Commissioner John Linc Stine. "While the Legacy Funds Minnesota citizens invested are helping us take steps forward, it's clear that we can't buy our way to healthy waters."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-161561
