Public Statements
Governor Dayton, Secretary Duncan Visit North Saint Paul Preschool
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 28, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton and U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan today visited a preschool classroom in North Saint Paul, meeting with students, teachers, parents, and administrators to discuss the impacts of high-quality early learning programs on Minnesota's youngest learners. Today's visit to Richardson Elementary School comes as Governor Dayton continues his push to make major investments in early learning this legislative session that would give tens of thousands of young learners the great starts they need to succeed in school and life.
"We have already seen the tremendous successes of all-day kindergarten, which got underway just this year," said Governor Dayton. "But we have a lot more work to do to narrow Minnesota's achievement gap, and provide excellent educations for every student in Minnesota. That work has to start now, and it must begin with our youngest learners."
Governor Dayton is continuing his strong push this session to send every Minnesota four-year-old to free, all-day prekindergarten programs. The Governor's $343 million proposal would allow an estimated 47,300 students to attend preschool in the program's first year of operation. Within just a few years, the Minnesota Department of Education predicts that number would grow to roughly 57,000 four-year-olds statewide -- giving every kid the great start they need to prepare for kindergarten, and succeed in school and life. If passed, Minnesota could be among the first states in the country to offer free, full-day early learning programs for every four-year-old. But right now, Minnesota ranks last in the nation for access to all-day preschool.
"Young children have made enormous progress in recent years, thanks to the hard work of advocates, program directors, teachers, and families, but our nation has further to go," said U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan. "Minnesota has made key investments in early learning and now has the chance to do more. Expanding access to high-quality preschool for all families who want it and the other investments proposed for younger children will narrow achievement gaps and reflect the real, scientific understanding that learning begins at birth."
Joining Governor Dayton and Secretary Duncan today were Lt. Governor Tina Smith, and Minnesota Education Commissioner Brenda Cassellius, who have been traveling the state over the last several months, visiting preschool and Head Start programs across Minnesota and making the case for the Governor's proposed investments in education and early learning.
"Our budget proposal invests in proven strategies to help ensure that every child enters Kindergarten ready to succeed," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "Providing every Minnesota four-year-old access to all-day, every day pre-Kindergarten will help ensure all children come to school ready to learn. Our proposal also would save Minnesota family's thousands of dollars in child care expenses."
In their visits to early learning programs across Minnesota, Governor Dayton, Lt. Governor Smith, and Commissioner Cassellius have stressed the impact these investments will have in helping students prepare for success in school, and in narrowing the state's achievement gaps. For years, Minnesota has faced persistent achievement gaps between white students and students of color, and students who live in poverty. But a growing body of research shows that giving kids a great early start is the best strategy to close those gaps, and help all students achieve their greatest potentials.
"High quality pre-K can change a child's life, and Secretary Duncan and the President understand the important role it can play in a child's education," said Minnesota Education Commissioner Brenda Cassellius. "I am honored to have their support as we work to make an historic investment to provide universal pre-K to every Minnesota student. If our effort is successful, it will truly be a game changer for our kids, helping to close achievement gaps and ensure every child the great start they deserve."
Governor Dayton's Proposed Investments in Early Learning
Governor Mark Dayton is continuing his push this legislative session to access provide free, full-day, voluntary prekindergarten programs for every four-year-old in Minnesota. Governor Dayton's proposal would also continue $54 million in funding for early learning scholarships, and expand eligibility for those scholarships to children ages 0-5. In addition to universal prekindergarten and early learning scholarships, the Governor's budget would also eliminate the waiting list for Head Start programs in Minnesota. Here is what you need to know:
Universal Pre-Kindergarten -- Governor Dayton has proposed investing $343 million in universal prekindergarten in Minnesota. If passed, the proposal would allow an estimated 47,300 students to attend preschool in the program's first year of operation. Within just a few years, the Minnesota Department of Education predicts that number would grow to roughly 57,000 four-year-olds statewide. Right now, Minnesota ranks 50th in the nation for access to all-day, pre-kindergarten learning.
Early Learning Scholarships -- Governor Dayton and the Minnesota Legislature have invested over $56 million of ongoing funding in early learning scholarships. Over the last several years, those scholarships have helped more than 12,500 young learners attend high-quality preschool programs. The Governor's budget proposal would continue that investment, and expand eligibility for the scholarships to include children ages 0-5.
Eliminating the Head Start Waiting List -- The Head Start program promotes school readiness for low-income children by enhancing their cognitive, social, and emotional developments, and by providing their families health, educational, nutritional, and other services. Right now, more than 2,400 children are stuck on the waiting list, hoping to get into Head Start programming. Governor' Dayton's budget proposal would eliminate the waiting list and ensure no child is denied a great start in life.
Investing in Community Partnerships -- The Governor's budget would invest new resources to provide wraparound services for children and families within the Northside Achievement Zone and St. Paul Promise Neighborhood. Both programs partner with families and communities to permanently close achievement gaps.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-161488
