Public Statements
Governor Dayton Signs Bipartisan Bill to Support Jobs, Cleaner Energy in Greater Minnesota
Statement
By: Mark Dayton Tina Smith
Date: Feb. 28, 2017
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today signed Chapter 5, House File 113, a bipartisan bill to allow Xcel Energy move forward with converting a retiring coal plant to natural gas and renewable energy in Becker, Minnesota. The bill passed with strong bipartisan support in the Minnesota House (80-45) and Minnesota Senate (39-25).

The new natural gas plant is estimated to create an estimated 150 jobs in Sherburne County. The bill Governor Dayton signed today will also provide protections for Minnesota ratepayers, so that Minnesotans paying for electricity do not end up on the hook for costs incurred because of the new construction.

The following is a statement from Governor Mark Dayton:

"This project is of critical importance for Becker and its surrounding area. It requires an immediate certainty that the PUC review process cannot provide. It will support good jobs, as Xcel transitions from coal to cleaner natural gas."

The following is a statement from Lt. Governor Tina Smith:

"As Xcel Energy transitions to the next generation of energy production at its Becker facilities, I strongly support the construction of a natural gas plant to replace the old coal plants. This bipartisan solution provides certainty for the Becker community and protects important, well-paying jobs. Converting from coal to natural gas will improve air quality and improve public health, as well as reduce carbon emissions.
"Since the bipartisan Next Generation Energy Act became law ten years ago, Minnesota has proven that transitioning to a clean energy economy creates jobs and produces clean, reliable, affordable energy. Minnesota has a long way to go to achieve our renewable energy and carbon reduction goals, and failure is not an option."

The following is a statement from Chris Clark, President of Xcel Energy-Minnesota:

"The Becker natural gas plant is a key component of the Xcel Energy plan to cost-effectively transition our energy fleet to cleaner energy and more renewable resources. The bipartisan support this bill received is representative of the stakeholder-driven process that lets Xcel Energy maintain its commitment to Central Minnesota, deliver reliable electricity for the region, and invest in low-cost renewable energy for our customers."

Making More Bipartisan Clean Energy Progress This Session
Yesterday, Lt. Governor Tina Smith announced a new bipartisan effort to move Minnesota to 50 percent renewable energy by the year 2030. You can read more about that bipartisan effort to create jobs, protect our environment, and improve health online at this link.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/282000
