Public Statements
Governor Dayton Applauds New Federal Actions to Improve Rail Safety
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 17, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Dayton today applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation's announcement of new measures to improve the safety of trains carrying highly-flammable Bakken crude oil by reducing the speed that they travel through Minnesota cities.
Governor Dayton has long pushed the federal government for much-needed rail safety improvements since high volumes of hazardous, highly-flammable crude oil began shipping out of North Dakota and through Minnesota. While this slowing of oil trains is an important step forward, Governor Dayton repeated his call on the federal government to issue new rail car standards to make the trains that pass through our backyards safer.

"I thank the Department of Transportation for listening to the concerns of Minnesota citizens and taking action to ensure greater rail safety in our communities," said Governor Dayton. "Minnesotans did not cause these disruptions; they are not responsible for the endless barrage of dangerous cargo being shipped through their communities every day. For the enhanced safety of all Minnesotans, I urge the federal government and the Minnesota legislature to continue these important efforts to improve rail safety in our state."
Last year, Governor Dayton pressed the federal Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration to take action to improve the safety of rail cars carrying crude oil through Minnesota. And, last year, Governor Dayton signed law implementing stricter oversight of railroad companies, requiring more railway inspections, and providing for better emergency response training and preparedness in communities across Minnesota.
This year, Governor Dayton is looking to build on that progress by passing a comprehensive rail safety proposal, which would complete seventy-five railway safety projects at Minnesota's most dangerous and congested rail crossings, and provide additional bonding dollars to fund four major grade separations in Coon Rapids, Moorhead, Prairie Island, and Willmar.
The plan would implement new quiet zones in communities located along busy rail lines, provide better training for emergency managers and first responders, and hire a new Rail Office Director who would position the state to play a larger role in addressing freight rail service and safety issues throughout the state. If passed, Governor Dayton's plan would also provide local governments the resources they need to respond to local infrastructure needs caused by increased railway traffic.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-160984
