Public Statements
Governor and Legislators: Send Every Child to Preschool
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 14, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Minnesota could be among the first states in the country to offer free, full-day early learning programs for every four-year-old -- that is, if a proposal from Governor Mark Dayton and the Minnesota Senate becomes law this session. If passed, the proposal would allow an estimated 47,300 students to attend preschool in the program's first year of operation. Within just a few years, the Department of Education predicts that number would grow to roughly 57,000 four-year-olds statewide -- giving every kid the great start they need to prepare for kindergarten, and succeed in school and life.
"We have already seen the tremendous successes of all-day kindergarten, which got underway just this year," said Governor Dayton. "But we have a lot more work to do to narrow Minnesota's achievement gap, and provide excellent educations for every student in Minnesota. That work has to start now, and it must begin with our youngest learners."
In their push to provide universal access to high-quality pre-kindergarten programs, Governor Dayton, Education Commissioner Brenda Cassellius, and area legislators today visited a preschool classroom at Expo Elementary School. The Governor, Senator Richard Cohen, Senator Katie Sieben, Representative Dave Pinto, and Representative Erin Murphy spent time with preschool students, teachers, and parents, seeing firsthand the impact that high-quality early learning programs have in preparing young learners for success in school and life.
"Saint Paul Public Schools have proven that investing in four-year-olds yields great results," said Senator Sieben. "I appreciate Governor Dayton's tremendous leadership on four-year-old preschool. Because of his vision, all families in Minnesota will be able to send their kids to preschool. Now we need the Legislature to act and follow through on the Governor's vision of universal preschool."
Participation in high-quality pre-kindergarten education programs can dramatically impact the lives of Minnesota children. But right now, Minnesota ranks 50th in the nation for access to all-day pre-kindergarten learning. For years, Minnesota has faced persistent achievement gaps between white students and students of color, and students who live in poverty. But a growing body of research shows that giving kids a great early start is the best strategy to close those gaps, and help all students achieve their greatest potential.

Source:
