Public Statements
Governor Dayton's proposals to bolster Minnesota's outdoors
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 2, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Minnesota's outdoors enthusiasts would see significant improvements to the state's management of fish and wildlife, and to other outdoor recreation programs, under a budget being proposed by Governor Mark Dayton.
The Governor's proposal would improve fisheries population surveys, create more forest wildlife habitat, help landowners improve grassland and prairie habitat, improve monitoring and management of wildlife populations and create more opportunities to help get kids and families into the outdoors.
"Governor Dayton's proposal is an investment," said Ed Boggess, director of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources' Fish and Wildlife Division. "He's asking the Legislature to allow DNR to improve management of fish and wildlife, and enhance enforcement efforts, by using dollars that hunters and anglers have already paid when they purchased a license."
The proposal would use existing funds from the state's game and fish fund to improve fish and wildlife populations, habitat, user facilities and access to information that supports those activities. Dayton's budget seeks $5.4 million in fiscal year 2016, which begins July 1, and $5.1 million in fiscal year 2017.
In addition, those investments would include eligible reimbursements of $6.1 million from federal excise taxes paid on certain types of outdoor gear and marine fuels, reducing the state's two-year, $10.5 million cost to a net of $4.4 million. None of the dollars would come from the state's general fund.
Dayton has also proposed to increase the ability of DNR conservation officers to protect natural resources and public safety associated with outdoor recreation. "With two dozen vacant stations across the state, the capacity of conservation officers to serve and protect the outdoor public and resources has diminished significantly," said Col. Ken Soring, DNR Enforcement Division director.

Source:
