Public Statements
Dayton, Smith, Klobuchar, Franken, and Nolan Call on Administration to Take Immediate Action to Stop Illegal Dumping of Foreign Steel That is Hurting Minnesota Steel Industry Jobs
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 1, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, Governor Mark Dayton, U.S. Rep. Rick Nolan, and Lieutenant Governor Tina Smith today called on the Obama Administration to take immediate action to stop illegal dumping of foreign steel that is hurting Minnesota steel industry jobs. Last week, Klobuchar, Franken, Nolan, and Smith met with top Administration officials at the White House to discuss immediate steps to stop mining and steel industry job losses stemming from declining iron ore prices and unfair dumping of foreign steel. At the meeting, the Administration committed to keeping mining and steelworker jobs in the U.S. by cracking down on illegal dumping practices that undercut our domestic industry. In a letter to President Barack Obama today, the Minnesota leaders urged the Administration to demonstrate this commitment by publicly announcing concrete actions to confront foreign dumping and keep American steel jobs.

"These indefinite plant closures and the attendant economic uncertainty they cause are harmful and heart-breaking for our constituents who live on Minnesota's Iron Range," the lawmakers wrote. "We believe the Administration must demonstrate its commitment to keeping steel industry jobs in the U.S. by proposing stronger enforcement measures to confront foreign dumping and respond to the low prices driven by foreign overproduction. We stand ready to work with you to help ensure that American steel jobs are sustained for this and future generations."

At last week's meeting, the leaders and Administration officials discussed the immediate steps that can be taken to stop mining and steel industry job losses stemming from declining iron ore prices and unfair dumping of foreign steel.

Administration officials shared the Minnesota leaders' concerns about illegal dumping and their commitment to keeping steel industry jobs in the U.S. Together, they committed to working on three important steps in support of steel industry jobs: improving the standards used to determine if enforcement action is necessary, strengthening enforcement so that determinations of unfair dumping can be made as quickly as possible, and aggressively pursuing full federal benefits for workers and their families.

In the letter today, Klobuchar, Franken, Dayton, Nolan, and Smith called on the Obama Administration to publicly announce action as soon as possible in relation to these initiatives.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-160072
