Public Statements
Lt. Governor Smith Rides Bus, Calls on Legislature to Support Mass Transit Investments Across Minnesota
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 6, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Lt. Governor Tina Smith and Metropolitan Council Chair Adam Duininck rode a Route 67 Bus in St. Paul to highlight the importance of investing in Minnesota's mass transit systems. Following their ride, Lt. Governor Smith and Chair Duininck rallied with transit supporters to talk about how Governor Dayton's transportation system would improve transit statewide.
"I have been hearing all over Minnesota how important transit is for our state," said Lt. Governor Smith. "The plan Governor Dayton and I are proposing will deliver outstanding transit and transportation all around Minnesota. It's time to deal with our state's transportation problem and roll towards progress this session."
Governor Dayton's Plan Delivers for Mass Transit
Governor Dayton's transportation proposal would make a significant investment in mass transit -- both in the Twin Cities Metropolitan Area and across Greater Minnesota. Over the next decade, the Governor's transportation plan would make $2.8 billion available for mass transit investments in the Twin Cities and $120 million in Greater Minnesota. These new resources would allow Minnesota to make the following improvements:
20 new transitways -- Governor Dayton's plan would allow Metro Transit to add 20 new transitways; increasing metro area bus service by 27 percent and ridership by an estimated 80 percent
1,000 bus shelters -- The Governor's transportation proposal would deliver up to
1,000 new shelters in the Twin Cities; many with heat and light
500,000 hours per year -- In Greater Minnesota, the Governor's plan would increase transit service by nearly 500,000 hours per year; ensuring rural providers are able to address 90 percent of transit needs by 2025
More About Governor Dayton's Transportation Proposal
Governor Dayton has proposed a straightforward, honest solution to fix Minnesota's aging transportation systems. The Governor's plan would invest $6 billion over the next ten years to address the state's highway funding deficit, invest $2.356 billion in local government transportation projects, and provide $2.92 billion for Metro and Greater Minnesota transit systems.
To learn more about Governor Dayton's proposal, click on the links below:
List of Projects -- Statewide list of projects that would be completed over the next ten years if the transportation proposal is passed.
News Release -- Read the news release from the Governor's transportation proposal announcement.
How it Works -- Read about how the plan would be funded.
Fact Sheet -- Get all the facts on the challenges facing our transportation system, and how the Governor's proposed investments would address those challenges.
Local Funding Increases -- Learn how much funding each city and county would receive under the Governor's transportation proposal.
Maps -- Take a look at the transportation projects that would be funded, by region.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-158231
