Public Statements
Governor Dayton and Senate Leaders United in Push for Major Investment in Transportation this Session
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Governor Mark Dayton, Senate Majority Leader Tom Bakk, Senate Transportation Committee Chair Scott Dibble, and a coalition of state leaders stood together to highlight their shared goal of passing a comprehensive investment in transportation this session. Facing a $6 billion deficit in transportation funding over the next ten years, Governor Dayton, Senator Bakk, Senator Dibble, DFL Senators, and Administration officials today reiterated the need for a modern, long-term transportation plan supported by reliable, dedicated funding.
"We cannot ignore this problem any longer," said Governor Dayton. "It is time to face the very serious consequences of doing nothing -- or next to nothing -- this session. I thank Senator Bakk, Senator Dibble, and the Senate DFL Caucus for their strong leadership on this issue. We look forward to working with the House of Representatives to deliver a real, long-term solution this session."
Governor Dayton and DFL Senators agree that increasing constitutionally dedicated funding to repair and improve Minnesota's roads and bridges is the most responsible way to fund our transportation needs. Gross receipts tax revenue would reliably raise the necessary resources to improve and preserve our transportation infrastructure for decades to come. Senator Bakk stressed that the only allowable usage of gross receipts taxation would be for Minnesota's public highways, as required under Article 14, Sec. 10 of the Minnesota Constitution. Even in 1924, when this provision was added to the Constitution, leaders in Minnesota knew that dedicated revenue was the appropriate way to fund transportation.
"We have heard the Republican calls to halt the push for a gas tax. We are here today to dispel the myth that the general fund surplus is capable of funding the vast needs of our transportation systems," said Senator Bakk. "Transportation has a constitutionally dedicated funding stream in the form of a gas tax because it is far too easy for leaders to put off this investment -- to the detriment of Minnesotans and our businesses."
Senator Dibble, Senate DFL legislators, Governor Dayton, Lt. Governor Smith, and Administration officials have crisscrossed the state over the last several weeks, seeing firsthand the diverse need for investment in Greater, suburban and urban Minnesota communities. Collectively visiting 25 cities since beginning their transportation push this session, they have heard from local officials, residents, and business leaders about the need for investment, and the potential growth communities would see if comprehensive transportation package is passed. Business testifiers at Senate field hearings were clear: safe, modern roads and access to transit are major factors for businesses looking to expand or relocate.
"The frustration with the lack of roads in good repair, roads that are safe and access for those who can't drive in Greater Minnesota is palpable, and the message from testifiers has been consistent during the Senate's field hearings and tours: The current level of funding for roads, bridges, transit at the township, city, county and state levels has been in obvious decline for years," said Senator Dibble. "Without reliable, dedicated resources, pavements will continue to crumble and the needs of our people and local businesses will go unmet. We must act this year so opportunities will not continue to slip away from communities in every corner of Minnesota."
Republican Plan Doesn't Add Up
The House Republican transportation proposal does not measure up to the need -- funding just 40 miles of repair on four-lane local roads over the next four years. Overall, the House GOP plan would provide just $50 million in new revenue each year over the next four years for local roads only, which pales in comparison to the $6 billion transportation funding shortfall Minnesota will face in the next decade for state roads and bridges. And, the House GOP plan would provide no additional funding to expand transit options in Greater Minnesota or the Metro Area.
By contrast, the plans proposed by Democrats would fund more than 600 road and bridge improvement projects, including more than 2,200 miles of improved roadways and 330 bridges across Minnesota. They would provide nearly $2.4 billion to cities, counties, and townships that could be used to meet their own local priority transportation needs. Greater Minnesota transit service would be expanded by 500,000 hours annually, and 20 new transitways would be constructed to provide affordable transit options for Minnesota's growing population -- taking more cars off the road, and easing congestion in our cities.
For decades, short-term, limited investments in transportation have been the norm -- a strategy that has shortchanged Minnesotans and businesses, and let our transportation system crumble into a state of disrepair. State leaders today called for a change in strategy, noting it is critical to our economic future that our roads and bridges are able to keep pace with the speed of business.
Minnesota's deteriorating transportation infrastructure is well-known to drivers and riders across the state -- who experience it firsthand every day. Governor Dayton and DFL Senators will continue listening to the needs and concerns of Minnesotans, who have spoken loud and clear. DFL Senators and Governor Dayton agree: the time for investment is now, the need is great, and addressing our urgent transportation needs requires passing a comprehensive plan that increases constitutionally dedicated revenue.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-158144
