Public Statements
Commission on Judicial Selection Recommends Second Judicial District Candidates to Governor Dayton
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

The Commission on Judicial Selection announced today it is recommending three candidates to Governor Mark Dayton for consideration to fill the current vacancy in Minnesota's Second Judicial District. This vacancy was created upon the retirement of the Honorable John B. Van de North, Jr., and will be chambered at St. Paul in Ramsey County.
Richard H. Kyle, Jr.: Mr. Kyle practices in state and federal court as a shareholder and attorney in Fredrikson & Byron's White Collar & Regulatory Defense, Health Care Fraud & Compliance, and Litigation Groups. Previously, he was a solo practitioner and an associate attorney at Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ceresi. Mr. Kyle currently serves as President of the Minnesota State Bar Association, as a member of the Minnesota Supreme Court Advisory Committee on Rules of Criminal Procedure, and is a former member of the Minnesota Lawyers Professional Responsibility Board.
Stephen L. Smith: Mr. Smith is the principal attorney at The Law Firm of Stephen L. Smith, PLLC, where he litigates employment, criminal, and civil rights cases in state and federal court. Additionally, Mr. Smith has served nearly 14 years as an Assistant State Public Defender and previously was a Special Assistant Attorney General for the Minnesota Attorney General's Office. Mr. Smith is a member of various organizations, including the Minnesota Association for Justice, the Minnesota Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, and the Minnesota Association of Black Lawyers.
Melissa Milbert Wendland: Ms. Wendland is an associate attorney at Robins Kaplan LLP, where she practices in medical malpractice, personal injury, and products liability. She previously practiced in business and intellectual property litigation at Robins Kaplan LLP and was a judicial intern for the Honorable Gordon W. Shumaker at the Minnesota Court of Appeals. Ms. Wendland is the Treasurer of the Civil Litigation Governing Council of the Minnesota State Bar Association and a member of the Executive Committee of the Minnesota Association for Justice.
Minnesota's Second Judicial District consists of Ramsey County.
An announcement of the appointment will be made following an interview process over the next few weeks.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-158186
