Public Statements
Governor's Proposal Would Target One of the Worst Traffic Jams in America
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 24, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

One of the worst traffic jams in America is right here in the Twin Cities. The I-35W/I-494 interchange was designed in the 1950s, and constructed in the 1960s -- with very few changes or improvements since. Fifty-three years later, an estimated 290,000 vehicles (nearly one-fifth of all daily traffic in the Twin Cities Metro Area) pass slowly through the severely congested interchange every day. The high density of traffic, spanning at least four lanes of interstate in all four directions, has led the Federal Highway Administration to dub the interchange "the 19th-worst bottleneck in the nation."
After years of study, the Minnesota Department of Transportation (MnDOT) could finally get to work repairing and restructuring the I-35W/I-494 interchange -- but only if the Legislature passes Governor Mark Dayton's proposed investments in transportation infrastructure. Governor Dayton's proposal, outlined in detail last week, would finally provide the funding necessary to make long-overdue improvements at the interchange to enhance safety, reduce congestion, and improve access to convenient transit alternatives.
"Hundreds of thousands of people drive through this interchange every day on their way to work or school, and back again," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "Nearly all of those Minnesotans needlessly waste hours of their time every week stuck inching through bumper-to-bumper traffic. The time for admiring this problem is over. It is time to roll up our sleeves and do something about it."
According to MnDOT, this portion of I-35W (between 90th Street and 76th Street) experiences 3-5 hours of congestion each weekday -- meaning it is backed up in bumper-to-bumper traffic 15-25 hours per week. Similarly, this section of I-494 (between Penn Avenue and Lyndale Avenue) experiences over 6 hours of congestion each weekday -- or 30 hours per week. Without new efforts to move traffic through the interchange more efficiently, and with an estimated 800,000 new residents expected in the Twin Cities Metro Area by 2040, MnDOT expects the problem will only get worse. But improvements will not be possible without significant new state funding.

Source:
