Public Statements
President Obama Appoints Governor Dayton to Council of Governors
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 20, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

The White House announced today that President Barack Obama has appointed Governor Mark Dayton to serve a two-year term on the Council of Governors. The Council of Governors, created by Congress in 2007, is a bipartisan forum to advise the Secretary of Defense, Secretary of Homeland Security, and the White House Homeland Security Council on matters related to the National Guard and civil support missions. The Council consists of 10 governors -- five from each party, with two governors serving as co-chairs.
"I am honored by President Obama's appointment, and looking forward to getting started on this important work," said Governor Dayton, who serves as Commander in Chief of the Minnesota National Guard. "The men and women of the Minnesota National Guard serve selflessly on our behalf every day. We owe them our gratitude, and our very best efforts to support them in their mission."
"Governor Dayton's appointment to the Council of Governors is good news for Minnesota," said Major General Richard Nash, Adjutant General of the Minnesota National Guard. "The Governor's service on this important advisory Council will give our state another means to advocate for the needs of our service members and their families, and to support the mission and objectives of the Minnesota National Guard."
Governor Dayton is one of ten governors appointed to the Council of Governors. Full membership of the Council includes the following:
Dan Malloy, Connecticut (Co-Chair)
Terry Branstad, Iowa (Co-Chair)
Rick Snyder, Michigan
Mark Dayton, Minnesota
Jay Nixon, Missouri
Steve Bullock, Montana
Brian Sandoval, Nevada
Bill Haslam, Tennessee
Terry McAuliffe, Virginia
Matt Mead, Wyoming
In addition, the following federal officials serve on the Council:
Secretary of Defense
Secretary of Homeland Security
Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism
Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Public Engagement
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense and Americas' Security Affairs
Commander, U.S. Northern Command
Chief, National Guard Bureau
Secretary of the Army
Secretary of the Air Force
Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard
Chief of Staff, Army
Chief of Staff, Air Force
The Council of Governors will convene its first meeting of the year today at the Pentagon in Washington, DC. To learn more about the Council of Governors, visit the National Governors Association website .

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-157095
