Public Statements
Governor Dayton Announces Appointments to the Workers' Compensation Court of Appeals
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 6, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today announced the appointments of the Honorable David A. Stofferahn and Ms. Deborah K. Sundquist as judges on the Minnesota Workers' Compensation Court of Appeals. Judge Stofferahn is being reappointed while Ms. Sundquist will replace the Honorable Debra A. Wilson, who retired upon the expiration of her term on January 5, 2015. The terms of Judge Stofferahn and Ms. Sundquist will expire on January 4, 2021.
"Judge David Stofferahn and Ms. Deborah Sundquist are both very well-qualified for these important positions," said Governor Dayton. "I am confident they will serve the people of Minnesota with great distinction."
Judge David A. Stofferahn : Judge Stofferahn is a current judge of the Minnesota Workers' Compensation Court of Appeals, where he has served since his appointment by Governor Ventura in 2002. Previously, he was an attorney at Sieben, Grose, Von Holtum & Carey and an analyst and investigator for the U.S. Naval Investigative Service. Judge Stofferahn earned his BA from the University of Minnesota and his JD from the University of Minnesota Law School.
Judge Stofferahn currently serves as a volunteer reader for the Everybody Wins Program and a mentor at the University of St. Thomas Law School.
Deborah K. Sundquist: Ms. Sundquist is an attorney and shareholder at Aafedt, Forde, Gray, Monson & Hager, PA, where she serves as a trial and appellate attorney in workers' compensation litigation. Previously, she was a senior staff attorney for CIGNA Insurance and an associate attorney at Meagher Geer. Ms. Sundquist earned her BA from the University of Minnesota and her JD from William Mitchell College of Law.
Ms. Sundquist is the co-chair of the Workers' Compensation Committee for the Minnesota Defense Lawyers Association and previously served as a JAG Officer for the U.S. Army Reserves.
The Workers' Compensation Court of Appeals is an independent agency of Minnesota's executive branch. It reviews workers' compensation cases decided by compensation judges at the Office of Administrative Hearings and some cases decided by the Workers' Compensation Division at the Department of Labor and Industry.
To learn more about the Minnesota Workers' Compensation Court of Appeals, please visit http://mn.gov/workcomp/.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-155790
