Public Statements
Governor Dayton Recognizes Milken Educator Award Winner
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 5, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Governor Mark Dayton hosted a luncheon honoring Angela Harvala, a Fifth Grade teacher at Princeton's North Elementary School. Harvala is Minnesota's latest recipient of the prestigious Milken Educator Award -- an award considered nationally as "The Oscars of Teaching." The national award recognizes outstanding excellence in education and includes a $25,000 cash prize.
"I am proud of the high caliber of educators we have in Minnesota. As a former public school teacher, I know how challenging their jobs are," said Governor Dayton. "I congratulate Angela Harvala on her achievements in the classroom, and thank her for her service to Minnesota students."
"Minnesota is home to incredible teachers who dedicate themselves every day to supporting their students. Angela is a perfect example of those educators who go above and beyond and who know that their job is not done when the school bell rings," said Education Commissioner Brenda Cassellius. "I congratulate her on this honor and celebrate all of our world-class educators who are making a positive impact on their students, their schools, and in the profession of teaching."
Angela Harvala is known for creating an uncommon bond with her students and for encouraging her students to believe in themselves. At a surprise award ceremony in November, Harvala was recognized for her tireless efforts to individualize instruction by gathering information about her students.
Known by her colleagues and students as "the Data Geek," Harvala takes into consideration student achievement data, learning preferences, home life and other factors that could influence student performance. She uses this information to modify instruction and set specific goals for each student. Harvala holds her students accountable for their work by asking them to personally rate their own effort and progress. To ensure that students who need extended learning time receive that needed support, Harvala developed a "Catch-Up Club" where students can get help to complete their assignments on-time. She also leads the girls' iEmpower group after school, which helps students learn confidence and leadership skills.
More About the Milken Educator Awards
Dubbed "the Oscars of Teaching" by Teacher Magazine, the Milken Educator Awards program was conceived by Lowell Milken to recognize the importance of outstanding educators, and to encourage talented young people to enter the teaching profession. Unlike most teaching awards, the Milken Educator Awards have no formal nomination or application process. Each year, exceptional teachers, principals and specialists--recommended without their knowledge by a blue-ribbon panel appointed by each state's department of education--are surprised with the news of their awards.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-155714
