Public Statements
Joint MnDOT, DEED Program Fosters Economic Growth Across Minnesota
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 4, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

The Minnesota Department of Transportation released a report this week detailing the results of $75 million in investments in transportation projects that foster economic development and support job growth.
The report is about the Transportation for Economic Development Program, a MnDOT and Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development program that provides funding for projects that will enhance the transportation system and improve economic growth. Governor Mark Dayton and the Minnesota Legislature committed state road construction funding for the initiative during the 2013 legislative session to support economic development, make needed transportation infrastructure improvements, and create jobs. The program currently has $10 million available for projects.
"Over the course of three years, these 30 important projects will support 15,000 Minnesota jobs, improve our roads and bridges, and strengthen our local economies," said Governor Dayton. "This initiative is a testament to what we can accomplish by making wise and needed investments in our state's aging transportation infrastructure."
The projects funded by TED in its first three years have improved roads, provided access to industrial areas with overpasses and improved safety by adding turn lanes and bypass lanes.
"These projects have provided strong economic boosts to these various communities," said MnDOT Commissioner Charlie Zelle. "And the program has allowed us to provide select improvements to the transportation system in an efficient and effective way that benefits all travelers who use that roadway. It is a win-win."
The projects in the program are developed by local governments and are designed to leverage other public and private investment. Over the three years, the program has leveraged millions of dollars in outside investments in the 30 projects and will support thousands of jobs around those projects.
"Transportation plays a crucial role in Minnesota's economic future, as we are only as strong as our ability to transport people and goods to market," said DEED Commissioner Katie Clark Sieben. "Over the last three years, the Transportation for Economic Development Program has leveraged $122 million in outside investments in 30 projects that will support more than 15,000 jobs, spurring addition economic growth throughout the state."
The TED program did not seek project solicitations in 2014. MnDOT has $10 million planned for the program for 2016 and will solicit projects in July of this year.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-155406
