Public Statements
Nursing Homes Receive Funding to Improve Quality
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 4, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Nursing homes throughout Minnesota will gain a total of about $17 million more over the next one to three years through a Minnesota Department of Human Services program that rewards a variety of quality improvement efforts.
Under the Performance-based Incentive Payment Program (PIPP), nursing homes sign contracts with DHS to earn higher payments for implementing projects designed to make improvements in key areas.
"Minnesota's nursing homes provide essential care for our parents, grandparents, and loved ones," said Governor Mark Dayton. "I thank these providers for the efforts they are undertaking to ensure all their residents receive the best possible care."
PIPP is among several Dayton Administration programs that leverage the state's purchasing role to promote quality in health care and long-term services and supports.
"PIPP projects designed by the nursing homes themselves have been shown to improve quality not just in targeted areas, such as falls prevention and resident mental health, but to improve l nursing home quality overall," said Human Services Commissioner Lucinda Jesson.
Projects approved at 95 nursing homes for funding from Oct. 1, 2014, through Sept. 30, 2017, include the following. Dollar amounts include a total of state funds, federal matching funds and private payments.
Care Ventures Cooperative's nursing facilities throughout Minnesota will receive a total of about $3.3 million for a project to improve employee recruitment, retention and turnover as well as staff and resident satisfaction. The project's success will be measured by direct care staff retention, employee turnover rates and satisfaction ratings. Facilities involved are in Annandale, Cold Spring, Dassel, Belgrade, Long Prairie, Cokato, New York Mills, Wadena, Frazee, Glenwood, Alexandria, Starbuck, Albany, Fergus Falls, St. Cloud and Wheaton.
Elim Care, Inc., Collaborative facilities will receive a total of $1 million for a staff training program to improve the overall dining experience for their residents. Facilities involved are in Milaca, Princeton, Watertown, Maple Plain, Buffalo, New Hope, Minneapolis and St. Paul.
Empira Collaborative facilities will receive a total of $10.9 million to reduce sundown syndrome, which is the onset of confusion and agitation that affects people with dementia or other cognitive impairments and often occurs at sunset. The project will promote realignment of residents' circadian rhythms and be measured by such factors as incidence or worsening of resident behavior problems and prevalence of depressive symptoms. Empira facilities involved are in Anoka, St. Paul, Edina, Milaca, Princeton, Watertown, Hutchinson, Maple Plain, Buffalo, Maplewood, Buffalo, Arden Hills, Bloomington, Spring Park, North Oaks, Minneapolis, Eden Prairie, Brooklyn Center, New Hope, Brooklyn Park, Oak Park Heights and Sleepy Eye.
Ecumen Collaborative is receiving a total of $1.7 million for nine facilities throughout Minnesota to partner with their local pharmacies on a new medication management system. The goal is to ensure patients being discharged from care centers fully understand their medications and how to take them to avoid re-hospitalization. Prevalence of falls with injury and hospitalization rates will be measured to determine impact of the project. Ecumen facilities involved are in Alexandria, North Branch, Two Harbors, Detroit Lakes, Grand Rapids, Litchfield, Chisago City, Mankato and Austin.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-155305
