Public Statements
Governor Issues Executive Order to Continue Olmstead Sub-Cabinet
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 28, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Governor Mark Dayton signed Executive Order 15-03, continuing a Sub-Cabinet to implement a comprehensive Olmstead Plan for Minnesota. The state's Olmstead Plan will support the freedom of choice and opportunity to live, work and participate in the most inclusive setting for individuals with disabilities. Executive Order 15-03 will continue the Olmstead Sub-Cabinet, which was originally created by Executive Order 13-01.
Governor Dayton has designated Mary Tingerthal, Commissioner of the Minnesota Housing Finance Agency, to Chair the Sub-Cabinet. The Governor's Executive Order also designates Roberta Opheim of the Office of the Ombudsman for Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities, and Colleen Wieck, Executive Director of the Minnesota Governor's Council on Developmental Disabilities as ex-officio members of the Sub-Cabinet.
"We must continue to improve services and support for people with disabilities," said Governor Dayton. "I am confident that Commissioner Tingerthal will be an effective leader of the Olmstead Sub-Cabinet. I thank each state agency for their work on this important initiative, and former Lieutenant Governor Yvonne Prettner Solon, who previously chaired the Sub-Cabinet and led this important effort during her time in office."
The Executive Order specifies the duties of the Sub-Cabinet, including:
To provide oversight of the implementation, modification, and improvement of Minnesota's Olmstead Plan
To ensure Minnesotans with disabilities and members of the public are involved and included in the work of the Sub-Cabinet
To communicate the state's progress toward implementing the Olmstead Plan to the Court
The Sub-Cabinet includes the commissioners of the Department of Human Services, Housing Finance Agency, Department of Employment and Economic Development, Department of Transportation, Department of Corrections, Department of Health, Department of Human Rights, and Department of Education.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-154497
