Public Statements
Governor Dayton Signs Flood and Disaster Relief Bill
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 27, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today signed legislation (Chapter 2, SF 1) that provides $17.3 million in flood and disaster relief for Minnesotans. Last summer, 37 counties and 3 tribal governments were declared a major disaster by President Obama following severe flooding. Three counties were not included in the President's declaration, but did qualify for help from a new state public assistance program.
"Last June, communities across Minnesota were declared a major disaster after heavy flooding," said Governor Dayton. "The bill I signed into law today will help Minnesotans rebuild, repair roads and other infrastructure, and to restore our natural resources. I thank the Legislature for acting quickly to pass this important legislation."
The bill signed into law today provides $17.3 million in state aid, including $11.88 million for flood and disaster relief, and $3 million to be used as a 20 percent match for Federal Highway Administration emergency funds used by local governments to repair roads following the June 2014 flooding. This funding will help repair federal aid eligible roads, such as trunk highways, and county roads that are not eligible under FEMA. The bill also sets aside $2.4 million for the Board of Water and Soil Resources to repair damage to existing conservation areas.
In total, 40 counties and three tribal governments received disaster relief funding in the bill signed today by Governor Dayton. Counties receiving funding include: Beltrami, Blue Earth, Brown, Carver, Chippewa, Dakota, Dodge, Faribault, Freeborn, Hennepin, Jackson, Koochiching, La Qui Parle, Lake of the Woods, Le Sueur, Lyon, Marshall, Martin, McLeod, Morrison, Murray, Nicollet, Nobles, Pipestone, Ramsey, Redwood, Renville, Rice, Roseau, Rock, Scott, Sibley, Steele, Todd, Wadena, Waseca, Washington, Watonwan, Wright, and Yellow Medicine. Tribal governments receiving funding include: Red Lake Band of Chippewa, Prairie Island Indian Community, Bois Forte Band of Chippewa.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-153801
