Public Statements
Governor Dayton Details Plan to Fix Minnesota's Aging, Underfunded Transportation System
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 26, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

For years, state leaders have failed to adequately fund Minnesota's highways, roads, bridges, and public transit systems. Insufficient funding has left them inadequate, congested, and needing repairs.
Today, Governor Mark Dayton proposed a straightforward, honest solution to fix Minnesota's aging transportation systems. Governor Dayton's plan would invest $6 billion over the next ten years to address the state's highway funding deficit, invest $2.356 billion in local government transportation projects, and provide $2.92 billion for Metro and Greater Minnesota transit systems. The Governor's proposal would create an estimated 119,000 new jobs,* and build the infrastructure necessary to meet the demands of a growing population and an expanding state economy.
"Inadequate transportation clogs our lives with worse traffic congestion, longer commutes, more dangerous travel conditions. Those deficiencies restrict our future economic growth and detract from our quality of life," said Governor Dayton. "If we continue to avoid these problems, they will only get worse. It's time to begin to solve them. I urge the Legislature to work with me this session to begin to repair and improve Minnesota's transportation systems."
"Minnesota's roads, bridges, and transit networks form the backbone of our economy. After decades of decline, we must invest in these systems to protect Minnesota's long-term economic vitality," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "The plan that Governor Dayton and I are proposing would provide the resources we need to build a modern transportation system -- driving continued business and job growth, and protecting the quality of life enjoyed by all Minnesotans."
The problem is real. In 2012, Governor Dayton convened a bipartisan panel of experts -- including policymakers, business and labor leaders, Cabinet officials, and city and county officials from across the state -- to study the funding needs of Minnesota's highways, roads, bridges, and public transit systems. The Transportation Finance Advisory Committee's (TFAC) analysis concluded that Minnesota faces a $6 billion state highway transportation funding deficit over the next ten years to preserve our existing system, and make the improvements needed for our long-term prosperity. Facing a large and growing list of transportation needs, declining revenues, and an expected one million new residents over the next 25 years, the need for a major new investment in transportation is clear.





Source:
