Public Statements
Governor Dayton Issues Executive Order to Establish Diversity and Inclusion Council
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 20, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Governor Mark Dayton signed Executive Order 15-02, establishing the Diversity and Inclusion Council. The Council will work to improve the recruiting and retention of state employees from diverse backgrounds, improve the contracting process for businesses owned by Minnesotans from diverse backgrounds, and promote civic engagement in the State of Minnesota. The Dayton Administration also created a fulltime Statewide Recruiter position charged with recruiting candidates from diverse communities to fill senior leadership roles throughout the administration.
Governor Dayton will chair the Council, which will include the commissioners of Administration, Human Rights, Health, Education, Employment and Economic Development, Management and Budget, Transportation, and the Chair of the Metropolitan Council.
"A government that serves the people of Minnesota, should reflect the rich diversity of Minnesota," said Governor Dayton. "We must ensure that all Minnesotans have equitable opportunities to work for their state government, to do business with the state, and to participate fully in the development of policy within our democracy."
The Executive Order requires that the Council work to create improvements in three areas:
The Council will work to provide recommendations that will improve the recruiting, retention, and promotion of state employees from diverse backgrounds
The Council will work to provide recommendations to improve the contracting process with business owned by Minnesotans from diverse backgrounds
The Council will work to provide recommendations to improve civic engagement with diverse communities.
This executive order rescinds and replaces Executive Order 91-14, "Providing for a State Affirmative Action Council", a continuation of an executive order created under Governor Arne Carlson's administration, signed by Governor Dayton on April 4, 2011.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-153264
