Public Statements
Governor Dayton Appoints Adam Duininck to Chair Metropolitan Council
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 16, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today announced that he has appointed Adam Duininck to serve as Chair of the Metropolitan Council. Duininck, who currently chairs the Metropolitan Council's Transportation Committee, will bring more than a decade of experience in transportation policy, planning, and construction to the position.
Governor Dayton noted that Duininck has the support of a broad, diverse network of policymakers and stakeholders across the region -- relationships that will be critically important in planning for the transportation, housing, environmental, and economic development needs of a vibrant and growing region. He will be the first chair of the Metropolitan Council to serve in a full-time capacity.
"Adam Duininck will bring both extensive experience and fresh perspective to the Council," said Governor Dayton. "His expertise in transportation and his working relationships with leaders throughout the region will be essential in building the transportation systems needed for its continued population growth and economic progress. Chair Duininck will be a strong, effective leader; I thank him for assuming this important responsibility."
Chair Duinick said, "Our region is growing rapidly. That growth presents a variety of complex challenges. But it also presents important opportunities to strengthen our local economies, renew our regional infrastructure, and improve the quality of life enjoyed by all our residents. I am extremely grateful for the chance to serve the people, communities, and businesses of this region; I can't wait to get started."
About Chair Adam Duininck
Adam Duininck has served as a member of the Metropolitan Council, representing District 8, since March 2011. On the Metropolitan Council, Duininck has served as Chair of the Transportation Committee and as the Council's chief liaison to the Transportation Advisory Board (the region's metropolitan planning organization). His experiences in transportation construction, policy, and planning have been instrumental as the Metropolitan Council has worked to complete the Metro Green Line (the largest infrastructure project in the Minnesota history), expand bus service, advance the Council's Transportation Policy Plan, and plan for the long-term transportation needs of the region.
For more than a decade, Adam has been deeply involved in advocating for additional investments in transportation and transit infrastructure at the state, local, and regional levels. As Legislative and Political Director for the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 49, Duininck played a key role in the push for additional state transportation investments in 2008, and the passage of a constitutional amendment dedicating new funding to roads and transit. His experience building consensus around transportation challenges will be instrumental at the Capitol this session as the Legislature works to address Minnesota's long-term transportation needs.
Most recently, Adam Duininck served as Executive Director of Win Minnesota, a non-profit organization that works to advance progressive causes in Minnesota. Adam is a native of Willmar, Minnesota. He lives in the Standish neighborhood of Minneapolis with his wife and two children.
About the Metropolitan Council
The Metropolitan Council is the regional policy-making body, planning agency, and provider of essential services for the Twin Cities metropolitan region. The Council's mission is to foster efficient and economic growth for a prosperous metropolitan region. The Council's 17-member policy board has guided and coordinated the strategic growth of the metro area and achieved regional goals for nearly 50 years.
The Chair of the Metropolitan Council must lead the Council in its important mission to create a financially sustainable 21st Century transportation system, promote housing opportunities across the region, and invest in infrastructure that supports economic development.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-153020
