Public Statements
Statement from Governor Mark Dayton on State Equity Audit
Statement
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 13, 2017
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, the results of an independent audit of the state's procurement, human rights, and affirmative action practices were released. The following is a statement from Governor Dayton.

"When we began this audit, we knew there were areas where state government needed to improve, to ensure that our state workforce fully reflects the rich diversity of Minnesota. Last year, I said that state government needed to lead by example, and increase the diversity in our employment to 20 percent, when I leave office in 2019. In 2011, 8 percent of state employees were women and men of color. Today, it is 11 percent. Similarly, I have committed state government to increasing the percentage of employees with disabilities to seven percent by August 2018. Now, we are at 6.2 percent, and I am confident that we will reach, or even surpass, that important goal.

"Furthermore, under my Administration, the state has recommitted itself to increasing diversity in state contracting. And, the Minnesota Department of Human Rights (DHR) has become more and more efficient, accountable, and effective in addressing the challenges facing Minnesotans of all backgrounds. If my Opportunity Agenda is approved, DHR will be able to better serve Minnesotans in four additional, thriving, and diverse communities across our state.

"These efforts provide employment opportunities for more Minnesotans of all backgrounds. They help create a more inclusive and representative state government. There is more we need to do, but we are working hard at it."

"I look forward to continuing to work with the group members to review this audit's findings, and to implement recommendations that will help the State of Minnesota better reflect and serve all, who call our state home. I thank these members for their important community leadership. I encourage Legislators to review this audit and join in our efforts this year, to build a better Minnesota for everyone."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/280100
