Public Statements
Governor Dayton Appoints Tom Baden for MN.IT Commissioner
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 14, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today announced that he has appointed Tom Baden to serve as Commissioner of MN.IT Services. Baden brings considerable experience to the position, having served in a variety of high-level IT management positions across state government. As Commissioner, Baden will lead MN.IT Services in its important mission to manage the information technology services of state government, oversee enterprise IT leadership and planning, and provide Minnesota government customers a wide variety of technical services.

"Tom Baden's wealth of experience, developed over his thirty-two years in state service, has prepared him well to lead the agency in its core missions: to better connect Minnesotans with each other, and with their government," said Governor Dayton. "Under Commissioner Baden's leadership, I am confident MN.IT Services will continue to improve Minnesotans' access to information, and to the valuable services provided by state government."

"I am thrilled to take on this new role, and eager to continue the work of improving the IT services provided by the State of Minnesota," said Commissioner Baden. "Under Governor Dayton's leadership, and with the work of many dedicated MN.IT Services employees, we have made great progress in the last four years to streamline and improve our IT systems. I look forward to building on those efforts in the years to come."

Tom Baden previously served as the Chief Information Officer for the Minnesota Department of Human Services, Chief Architect for the Minnesota Office of Enterprise Technology (now MN.IT Services), and as Enterprise Architect for the Department of Employment and Economic Development and the Minnesota Department of Human Services. Throughout his career, Baden has continued to develop his management and leadership skills as well as technical expertise, including studying software development, web development, data modeling and programming languages.

About MN.IT Services
MN.IT Services, led by Minnesota's Chief Information Officer, is the Information Technology (IT) agency for Minnesota's executive branch, providing the full range of IT services to over 70 agencies, boards and commissions. MN.IT also makes available a subset of services to other Minnesota government entities and education institutions.

Source:
