Public Statements
Governor Mark Dayton Appoints Mark Phillips Commissioner of the Iron Range Resources and Rehabilitation Board
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 7, 2015
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Governor Mark Dayton appointed Mark Phillips to be Commissioner of the Iron Range Resources and Rehabilitation Board (IRRRB). Phillips will lead the Board in its mission to diversify and improve the economy of the Iron Range. Phillips served as Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development (DEED) from 2011 to 2012, and was the IRRRB's Director of Economic Development from 1983 to 1988. Phillips is currently Director of Business Development at Kraus-Anderson Construction Company.
"I am pleased to appoint Mark Phillips to serve as Commissioner. The people and businesses of the Iron Range will be well served by Mark's extensive public and private economic development experience," said Governor Dayton. "I appreciate Mark's willingness to serve Minnesota again, and I look forward to our work together in the years ahead."
"I would like to thank Governor Dayton for this tremendous opportunity to serve the people of Minnesota," said Commissioner Phillips. "During the past four years, Minnesotans have seen increasing job growth and new prosperity. I am eager to work with the Governor, IRRRB Board, area legislators, and private sector partners to continue this progress."
Mark Phillips brings more than twenty-five years of leadership in development and finance, including launching new and creative programs for community and economic development, real estate development and business financing. Phillips served as the IRRRB's Director of Economic Development under Governor Rudy Perpich, as Director of Development for Minnesota Power, and as Vice President of Northeast Ventures Corporation. He is a recipient of the Economic Development Association of Minnesota's Career Achievement Award.
About the Iron Range Resources and Rehabilitation Board
The Iron Range Resources & Rehabilitation Board (IRRRB) is a State of Minnesota development agency located in Eveleth, Minnesota. IRRRB's mission is to promote and invest in business, community and workforce development for the betterment of northeastern Minnesota. The board is comprised of state senators and representatives elected from state senatorial or legislative districts in which one-third or more of the residents reside within the IRRRB service area. One additional state senator is appointed by the senate Subcommittee on Committees of the Committee on Rules and Administration.

IRRRB provides vital funding, including low or no interest loans, grants and loan guarantees for businesses relocating or expanding in the region. Additionally, a variety of grants are available to local units of government, education institutions, and nonprofits that promote workforce development and sustainable communities.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-152285
