Public Statements
Governor Dayton Announces Launch of TransparencyMN Website
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 2, 2015
Location: Unknown

Continuing his administration's efforts to build a Better Government for a Better Minnesota, Governor Mark Dayton today announced the launch of a new state website, where Minnesotans can easily see how their tax dollars are spent. On the new TransparencyMN website, the public can find useful information such as details on state agency budgets, local governments and school district finances, and state audits and reports.

"Minnesotans expect and deserve this level of transparency and accountability in government," said Governor Dayton. "This new online tool will provide Minnesotans 24-hour access to the information they need to understand how their tax dollars are being spent."

According to MMB Commissioner Jim Schowalter, the new website brings together information on the financial activities of the state from a variety of different sources.

"A state government that is accountable to Minnesota taxpayers is an important part of being efficient and effective," said Commissioner Schowalter. "The new functionality of this website will allow citizens, the media, and legislators more access to information about how state dollars are spent."

TransparencyMN is designed to provide a current picture of the state's operating budget, as well as daily expenditures made by state agencies-directly from the state's accounting system. Information is updated nightly -- showing budgeted amounts available to agencies, amounts budgeted in specific categories, and actual payments made for goods and services. The website also includes a searchable database where information on contracts and grants, state appropriations, and state employee salaries can be found.

Better Government for a Better Minnesota
The TransparencyMN website is part of Governor Dayton's ongoing commitment to make state government more accessible and easy for Minnesotans to understand. Since 2011, the Dayton Administration has implemented reforms across state government. These efforts have eliminated over 1,000 outdated laws and saved taxpayers more than $1 billion.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-151904
