Public Statements
Statement from Governor Dayton on the Budget Forecast
Statement
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Dec. 4, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, Governor Mark Dayton released the following statement regarding Minnesota's November Budget Forecast:
"Today's budget forecast shows continued strong economic growth throughout Minnesota, growth that exceeds the nation as a whole. We have the fifth lowest unemployment rate of any state in the nation. Our GDP increase for 2013 of 2.8 percent was a full percent higher than the national average.

"Compared to the February Forecast, the projection of the national economic growth diminished and that is a factor in our performance as well. We are still looking at a surplus over $1 billion dollars. That's after transferring an additional $183 million to the reserve fund as prescribed by law. So we continue to build the reserve, we have a surplus looking into the biennium for the first time, and for quite a number of biennia. It's good news for Minnesota. It also means we have to be prudent.

"I'm not going get into the details of what I would be proposing in almost two months from now, on January 27. But, as I have said before, I am very interested in the childcare tax credit, which would remove the income ceilings so that 137,000 more Minnesota families would be able to take advantage of that credit, costing about $175 million for the biennium.

"I'd also like to increase the state's support for broadband expansion so we can hook more Minnesotans into the high-speed network, which will be crucial for economic vitality all over the state for decades to come. I would like to increase the early childhood scholarships and transportation funding, increasing roads, bridges, highways, and public transit.

"I've said all along that I think the people of Minnesota deserve the credit for our economic performance, and the fact that we're one of the leading states in the nation. Much credit is due to the entrepreneurs and business executives who have made the decision to locate or expand in Minnesota, and their hardworking and well-educated employees.

"We have a 3.9 percent unemployment rate -- the fifth lowest in the nation -- which is why we have this continued growth. That's the main element behind our economy and the main element behind our success so far. I think the investments we have made particularly in education, from early childhood all the way through higher education, will definitely be a factor.

"I think if you look at what we need to do to continue that kind of economic growth is to continue our focus on education and also to revitalize our transportation network. Without a good transportation system, a lot of companies especially in greater Minnesota that have longer distances to travel their products are going to be feeling that squeeze in the years ahead. Those are the roles that government can play to continue that growth. Our record shows that we've done that, and will continue to do so."

Source:
