Public Statements
Making College and Career Training More Affordable, Increasing Opportunities for All Minnesota Families
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 10, 2017
Location: St. Paul, MN

Lt. Governor Tina Smith today detailed Governor Mark Dayton's proposal to make college and career training more affordable and expand opportunities for the more than 427,000 higher education students in Minnesota, by investing $318 million into college and career training as part of his Opportunity Agenda for a Better Minnesota. The Governor's Opportunity Agenda would provide tuition relief directly to 88,800 Minnesota students through the State Grant Program, and would increase access to campus programs across the state that promote student success. The Governor's Jobs Bill would also invest $316 million to ensure Minnesota students have world-class classrooms and laboratories to learn and train in.

"Governor Dayton's Opportunity Agenda would make college and career training more affordable for over 88,000 Minnesota students, while ensuring more Minnesota families can access the best opportunities our state can offer," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "College and career readiness are essential to building an economy that works for all Minnesotans, everywhere in our state. Governor Dayton and I will work with legislators on both sides of the aisle to expand these opportunities for more Minnesota families this year."

The opportunity to succeed in life and create jobs in our economy is built on a world-class education, from early childhood and K-12, through technical school and college. That is why Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith are committed to improving educational opportunities for every family, everywhere in Minnesota.

Below, see how Governor Dayton's budget would make college and career training more affordable, and support better opportunities for families across the state.

Making College and Career Training More Affordable
Before Governor Dayton took office, state funding for higher education had been cut significantly. Since then, the State of Minnesota has made progress to restore higher education funding to keep tuitions in check, increase direct financial aid for students, and invest in classroom improvements.

* Direct Financial Aid for Students -- Governor Dayton's budget invests $62 million in the State Grant Program. This investment would increase direct financial aid for 82,400 students, and allow an additional 6,400 students to gain access to the grants.

o CLICK HERE to see how much new funding students attending your local college or university are projected to receive under Governor Dayton's Opportunity Agenda.

* Minnesota State and the University of Minnesota -- The Governor's budget invests $125 million in Minnesota State campuses statewide, and $96.8 million in the University of Minnesota, to support world-class higher educations for Minnesotans, and to support a world-class workforce for our state's economy.

Improving Opportunities On-Campus

* Reducing Student Homelessness -- To do homework, get a good night's sleep, and be ready to succeed in the classroom, every college student needs a safe, stable home. But hundreds of Minnesota college students experience housing instability each year. That is why the Governor's budget invests $250,000 to ensure more Minnesota college students have a safe and stable place to live.

* Combating Sexual Assault on Campus -- Governor Dayton's budget includes $300,000 to hire a Campus Sexual Violence Prevention and Response Coordinator at the Office of Higher Education, who will support efforts to reduce sexual violence on campuses around the state.

World-Class Learning Facilities

* Maintaining World-Class Higher Education Facilities -- To ensure that Minnesotans have access to high-quality education facilities, Governor Dayton's Jobs Bill would invest $135 million in basic infrastructure maintenance at the Minnesota State and University of Minnesota campuses statewide. The type of projects that would be funded include roof repairs, heating and cooling system repair and replacement, and electrical equipment repairs.

* Classrooms and Labs for the Careers of Tomorrow -- Governor Dayton's Jobs bill would invest more than $180 million to build the innovative classrooms and laboratories necessary to compete and succeed in the career opportunities of tomorrow's economy. These projects include a new health sciences facility at the University of Minnesota, the Education Village at Winona State University, new class space at Bemidji State University, and more across the state.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/279923
