Public Statements
Hwy 610 Extension Project Gets Underway in Maple Grove
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Oct. 16, 2014
Location: Roseville, MN

Today, the Minnesota Department of Transportation (MnDOT) broke ground on a Corridors of Commerce project at the west end of the Highway 610 corridor in Maple Grove. Work on the $80 million expansion of Highway 610 between Elm Creek Boulevard and Interstate 94 in Maple Grove will begin this fall, with major construction starting next spring. The new highway corridor will support continued economic growth and job creation in the northwest Twin Cities suburbs. The 2.5-mile extension will open to traffic in late 2016.

"A strong, safe, and reliable transportation system is the cornerstone of a thriving economy," said Governor Mark Dayton, who participated in today's groundbreaking ceremony, and working with the Legislature invested over $330 million in the Corridors of Commerce initiative. "This project is a great example of the positive economic impact transportation improvements can generate in our communities."

Construction on the project may just be getting underway, but businesses have already begun building corporate headquarters and moving more jobs and larger operations into the area. Olympus Surgical Technologies of America recently built a new 180,000 square foot manufacturing facility along the Highway 610 corridor that will employ 380 workers. Target Corporation significantly expanded its Brooklyn Park offices. And just this summer, work got underway on the new North Cross Business Park, an industrial development that will be home to PERBIX Machine Co. Inc. and Wurth Adams Nut & Bolt.

"We need to take care of our transportation system to keep it efficient and effective. This is vital to the success of Minnesota's economy," said MnDOT Commissioner Charlie Zelle. "The Corridors of Commerce program is a down payment of sorts on transportation projects that are important to Minnesota's future and quality of life. These projects will improve traffic movement and the flow of freight, which will lead to better business and, ultimately, a stronger economy."

More information about the Highway 610 extension project is available on the MnDOT website.

About Corridors of Commerce
The Corridors of Commerce program has funded more than $331 million in project work since its inception in 2013. The intent of the program is to improve transportation corridors that will aid economic development and better support Minnesota's economy.

Corridors of Commerce began with $300 million in 2013. This year, Governor Dayton and the Legislature added $31.5 million to the program, including $6.5 million to be used in Fiscal Year 2014 for projects in Greater Minnesota, and $25 million in Fiscal Year 2015 for projects statewide. Last week, Governor Dayton and Commissioner Zelle announced work on 13 projects around Minnesota.

For more information on the Corridors of Commerce initiative, including a comprehensive list of projects being funded through this project statewide, visit www.mndot.gov/corridorsofcommerce.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-144886
