Public Statements
Governor Helps Dedicate New Lindau Lane Corridor in Bloomington
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Oct. 13, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

Thanks in part to a $15.4 million investment by Governor Mark Dayton and the Minnesota Legislature, visitors to the Mall of America will notice some improvements in their commute starting this fall. Governor Dayton joined local leaders today as the new Lindau Lane Corridor opened to traffic, improving a crucial artery of traffic to Mall of America. The new corridor project will foster economic development in Bloomington, improve the flow of traffic, and provide safer access to parking for the largest shopping mall in the United States.
"This project will greatly improve the flow of traffic for cars and pedestrians entering the Mall," said Governor Dayton. "It will improve safety, support commerce, and help eliminate the backlog of traffic that we have seen pile up for years at this intersection."
In completing the project, workers extended Lindau Lane to Bloomington Central Station and the 28th Avenue Park and Ride facility, ensuring the corridor could handle additional traffic loads that could occur with future development in the Bloomington South Loop District. The project involved lowering Lindau Lane by almost 200 feet, building a pedestrian plaza over the top, and extending Lindau Lane east of the mall. The new plaza will provide pedestrians easy access to parking areas on the north side of the Mall, along with a new public space opening late summer 2015.
Funding for the project includes a $15.4 million investment from the 2011 Jobs Bill, signed into law by Governor Dayton. The remainder of the project was funded by the City of Bloomington.
Mall of America is one of Minnesota's largest attractions, bringing more than 40 million visitors a year to our state. The Mall employs 11,000 year-round employees, and up to 13,000 workers during peak periods. It is estimated that Mall of America generates almost $2 billion in economic activity for Minnesota every year.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-144263
