Public Statements
Minnesota Receives $17 Million in Federal Grants for Workforce Training
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 29, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

Following the request of Governor Mark Dayton, Minnesota today received more than $17 million in federal grants to train workers for jobs in high-demand fields. The grants, awarded to 14 campuses across the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities (MnSCU) system, will provide education and workforce training for good-paying jobs in construction and advanced manufacturing.
"Minnesota's greatest economic strength has always been our highly-skilled workforce," said Governor Dayton. "This initiative will help train hundreds of Minnesotans for good jobs in high-demand industries. It is the new initiative we need to build on the momentum of our state's growing economy."
The United States Department of Labor announced today's grant recipients in the latest round of its Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training grants. The grants are part of a 4-year, nearly $2 billion initiative to expand targeted training programs for unemployed workers, especially those impacted by foreign trade.
Construction and Utilities Succeed Program ($2.5 million)
Minnesota State Community and Technical College (M State), with campuses in Detroit Lakes, Fergus Falls, Moorhead, and Wadena, will receive $2.5 million for their Construction and Utilities Succeed program. This grant will help 450 adults in West Central Minnesota receive training and certifications in high-demand construction and utility industries. M State will partner with local businesses and the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development (DEED) to help connect trainees with good-paying jobs in the construction and utility fields.
Minnesota Advanced Manufacturing Partnership ($15 million)
Minnesota received nearly $15 million for the Minnesota Advanced Manufacturing Partnership (MNAMP), a consortium of 13 schools that works with eligible adults and veterans to help them gain experience in advanced manufacturing. Participants earn work credentials while working in the industry. MNAMP will partner with local businesses, DEED, and the Governor's Workforce Development Council to help connect workers with training opportunities and good-paying jobs in the advanced manufacturing field.
MNAMP provides these workforce training services at 13 MnSCU campuses, including: Bemidji State University, Century College, Dakota County Technical College, Lake Superior College, Minneapolis Community and Technical College, Minnesota State Community and Technical College, Minnesota West Community and Technical College, Riverland Community College, South Central College, Normandale, Northland Community and Technical College, Ridgewater College, and St. Paul College.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-142700
