Public Statements
Governor Dayton to Local Leaders: How is Increased Railway Traffic Impacting Your Communities?
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 24, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today reached out to 300 communities located along railway routes in Minnesota, asking how increased rail traffic and the volatility of oil shipments are impacting local budgets and the quality of life enjoyed by area residents.

After hosting a series of railway safety meetings across the state this summer, Governor Dayton is digging deeper with a community-by-community analysis of the local costs and impacts of increased railway traffic. The Governor will use this input to inform the state's ongoing response to the issue, and to develop recommendations to the Legislature for how the state can help local governments address the additional costs, safety concerns, and infrastructure needs caused by a steady increase in railway traffic.

"In my meetings with local leaders across the state this summer, it became clear that increased traffic on our railways is having real and costly impacts on Minnesota communities," said Governor Dayton. "This survey will help identify those challenges, and provide a roadmap for the state to address these problems in the 2015 Legislative Session."

During railway safety meetings this summer, the Governor met with local leaders and emergency managers to review the state's new railway safety laws and to discuss other ways the state can partner with communities to enhance the safety of Minnesotans. Building on those conversations, the Governor's railway safety survey asks communities how increased freight traffic is impacting them, including:
-What are your biggest challenges related to rail traffic?
-What costs have your community incurred to address the increased rail traffic?
-What additional costs does your community foresee to address the increased rail traffic?
Citizens who have input or concerns about the impacts of increased railway traffic are encouraged to contact the Governor Dayton's Office through this contact form on the Governor's website.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-141955
