Public Statements
Minnesota Receives $36 Million in Federal Grants for Veterans Homes
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 24, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today announced that the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs (MDVA) will receive two federal grants totaling $36 million for the expansion, modernization, and improvement of four Minnesota veterans' homes. These new grants will help expand the capacity of the State Veterans Homes, and improve the quality of life enjoyed by Minnesota's veterans.

"Through their service to our state and nation, Minnesota's veterans have earned the best possible care," said Governor Dayton, who led efforts to include state funding for the Minneapolis Veterans Home in the 2013 Jobs Bill. "These new federal resources, and the state's financial commitment to these projects, will provide state-of-the-art facilities and equipment that will help ensure our veterans receive high-quality care for years to come."

The federal grants awarded to the State of Minnesota will help fund the completion of the Minneapolis Veterans Home, and install new resident lift systems at state facilities in Silver Bay, Fergus Falls, Luverne, and Minneapolis.

"It is our mission to provide certainty for Veterans over the entire course of their lives," said Veterans Affairs Commissioner Larry Shellito. "These critical patient lifts, and the conclusion of this construction project, will further that mission by bringing needed updates and new facilities to our Veterans Homes."

Minneapolis Veterans Home
For 125 years, the Minneapolis Veterans Home has provided care to Minnesota's veterans. Today, Governor Dayton announced the state will receive a $35 million federal grant to complete the renovation and expansion of the facility, including the construction of a modern 100-bed skilled nursing facility. The project will also include a tunnel connecting all of the skilled nursing buildings on the Veterans Home campus. The Governor and Legislature provided $18.9 million of state matching funds for the project in the 2013 Jobs Bill. Construction on the third and final phase of the project will begin in May 2016.

New Resident Lift Systems
Governor Dayton also announced today that Minnesota will receive a $737,000 federal grant to fund the installation of new ceiling resident lift systems at State Veterans Homes in Minneapolis, Silver Bay, Fergus Falls, and Luverne. The State of Minnesota has provided $385,000 in matching funds for the project, which will enhance safety and improve care for residents at State Veterans Homes across Minnesota. In addition to providing safe resident transfers, lift systems help prevent and reduce employee injuries. This improvement project will result in meeting the Minnesota Veterans Home goal of equipping 25 percent of rooms with mechanical lift equipment.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-141972
