Public Statements
Action Manufacturing in Marshall Set to Expand, Create New Jobs
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 14, 2014
Location: Marshall, MN

Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton today visited Action Manufacturing, a Marshall company that builds wheelchairs with tracks that enable people with disabilities to participate in outdoor activities including hunting, fishing and hiking.

Action Manufacturing, which was launched by Tim Swenson in 2009, is planning a $1.4 million expansion that will enable the company to ramp up production and add 10 jobs paying approximately $15 per hour, including benefits. To help with the project, DEED recently awarded the company a $240,000 low-interest loan from the Minnesota Investment Fund -- a business incentive initiative that Governor Dayton and the Legislature invested $30 million in during the 2013 Legislative Session.

"Action Manufacturing's terrific products help people with disabilities to enjoy hunting, fishing, and other outdoor activities in Minnesota and nation-wide," said Governor Dayton, a life-long angler and hunter. "I congratulate Tim Swenson and everyone at Action for their success and thank them for the new jobs to be created by this expansion."

"Action Manufacturing is filling a niche that enables those with disabilities to participate in outdoor activities in mud, snow and terrain that otherwise would be inaccessible," said DEED Commissioner Katie Clark Sieben. "We're proud to call them a Minnesota company and thank them for their important work."

Swenson started Action Manufacturing after his 16-year-old son, Jeff, was a passenger in car accident in 1998 that left him paralyzed from the waist down. Wanting to help his son stay active, Swenson sold his motorcycle, ATV and snowmobile dealership and started a company that builds all-terrain wheelchairs.

Action decided to expand because demand for the company's Trackchair and Trackstander products has grown so rapidly internationally that it cannot meet demand.

About the Minnesota Investment Fund
The Minnesota Investment Fund provides financing to help add new workers and retain high-quality jobs on a statewide basis. The focus of the initiative is on industrial, manufacturing, and technology-related industries to increase the local and state tax base and improve economic vitality statewide. Governor Dayton and the Legislature invested $30 million in the initiative during the 2013 Legislative Session. More information about the initiative, and how to apply for funding, is available on the DEED website.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-139069
