Public Statements
After 6-Year Wait, Mankato Civic Center Expansion to Be Completed
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 13, 2014
Location: Unknown

The expansion of the Mankato Civic Center has been six years in the making. And thanks to the 2014 Jobs Bill passed by the Legislature and signed into law by Governor Mark Dayton last May, the project is finally on track to be completed. The Jobs Bill enacted during the last session provided $14.5 million to add an auditorium, additional meeting rooms, and renovate the ice arena. The Civic Center expansion is expected to create more than 450 new construction jobs and generate an annual $50 million economic impact.
"This project was long overdue," said Governor Dayton. "The expansion of the Mankato Civic Center will add hundreds of new jobs, and bring thousands more visitors to Mankato every year. I congratulate the many community leaders who worked for years to complete this important project."
Completing the expansion will allow Mankato to maintain its position as a regional convention and event center. The expansion and renovation also will benefit the Minnesota State University Mankato hockey teams, which train and compete at the facility.
"The Mankato Civic Center has been a key part of both Greater Mankato's regional vision and Mankato's downtown renaissance," said Representative Kathy Brynaert. "Our community has worked incessantly to create the partnerships and support the work to move this vision forward. We are thankful for Governor Dayton's commitment to regional economic development embodied in his strong support for Civic Center funding achieved in the 2014 Bonding Bill."
"I thank Governor Dayton for including the Mankato Civic Center in his proposal and keeping it in," said Representative Tony Cornish. "Mankato has worked hard on this endeavor for years and can now move forward with this and other projects. With Rapidan Dam being included in the same bill, and the County not having to match the funds, this was a "no brainer' for me."
"The extension of the Mankato Civic Center is an important improvement to the key anchor in the increasingly vibrant downtown of Mankato and the surrounding area," said Representative Clark Johnson.
"This investment, along with other projects in the district, will continue to encourage growth and prosperity in southern Minnesota," said Senator Julie Rosen. "I was honored to work with my colleagues in securing the needed funds from the state."
"This Event Center upgrade is a long time coming," said Senator Kathy Sheran. "Its importance to Minnesota State University Mankato hockey and our downtown revitalization is immeasurable so I am thankful that Governor Dayton became an advocate. We would not be moving forward without his help."
$107 Million of Investments in the Mankato Area
Overall, the 2014 Jobs Bill signed by Governor Dayton invested $106.8 million in the Mankato Area. In addition to the Mankato Civic Center expansion project, the Jobs Bill made needed investments in higher education, water resources, and the state security hospital. These projects will create new jobs in the Mankato Area, support future economic development, and improve safety.
Minnesota State Mankato Clinical Sciences Facility -- The Jobs Bill enacted by the Governor and Legislature included funding to for the construction of the Clinical Sciences Facility at Minnesota State Mankato. Once completed, the clinic will serve disadvantaged individuals in southern Minnesota and allow students to gain valuable hands-on experience.
Rapidan Dam Repairs -- The Jobs Bill also included funding to repair and renovate the Rapidan Dam in southeast Mankato. The funding will be used to replace the gates and do improvements on the downstream containment walls -- helping ensure long-term integrity of the dam.
Minnesota River Trail -- The Jobs Bill funded improvements to the Minnesota River Trail between Mankato and St. Peter and for the connections to the Sakatah Singing Hills State Trail and the Red Jacket Trail in Mankato.
Minnesota State Security Hospital -- The Jobs Bill signed by Governor Dayton will make much needed improvements to the state security hospital in St. Peter. In the first phase of construction, a safer, more therapeutic environment for patients and a safer work environment for staff will be built.
Minnesota Sex Offender Program -- The Jobs Bill enacted by the Legislature and Governor Dayton included funding for designing, remodeling, constructing, furnishing and equipping existing buildings for residential and program operations.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-138955
