Public Statements
Governor Dayton Directs State Agencies to Increase Hiring of Minnesotans with Disabilities
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 4, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Mark Dayton today issued Executive Order Executive Order 14-14, which directs all state government agencies to increase their employment of Minnesotans with disabilities. Over the last 15 years, there has been a steady decline in the proportion of Minnesotans with disabilities employed by the state -- from 10.1 percent of the state's workforce in 1999, to just 3.2 percent in 2013. The Executive Order issued today by Governor Dayton directs state agencies to increase that level to 7 percent by 2018.

The Governor's Executive Order instructs Minnesota Management and Budget (MMB) and the State Director for Equal Opportunity to develop a model for recruitment and hiring strategies to increase the employment of people with disabilities. It also requires all state agencies to develop plans for promoting employment opportunities for Minnesotans with disabilities, and to begin reporting their progress on a quarterly basis. The Order also directs MMB to develop ways to help employees to more easily update their disability status with their employer.

In recent years, Minnesota has fallen behind neighboring states and the federal government in the hiring of individuals with disabilities. Currently, the states of Wisconsin and Iowa have achieved 5.8 percent, and 4.4 percent levels, respectively. The most recent figures for the federal government show that 5 percent of federal workers are individuals with disabilities. Developed in consultation with disability advocates, Minnesota's new target of 7 percent will make the state a leader in the region for hiring people with disabilities.

A Better State for All Minnesotans
Since taking office, Governor Dayton and his administration have been committed to improving opportunities for all Minnesotans -- including individuals with disabilities. The following are just some of the initiatives the Dayton Administration has enacted to help Minnesotans with disabilities live more independently and improve the quality of their lives.







































Source:
