Public Statements
Governor Dayton to Salute Businesses for Hiring, Supporting Veterans
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 8, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

On Wednesday, July 9, Governor Dayton will thank hundreds of Minnesota employers for their continuing commitment to hiring and supporting military veterans. In the morning, the Governor will provide remarks at the state's largest Veterans Career Fair in Brooklyn Center. Later in the day, he will provide remarks at Cargill's Yellow Ribbon ceremony as the company declares its commitment to supporting military service members and their families as a member of the state's Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program.

Minnesota Veterans Career Fair
At 9:15 Wednesday morning, Governor Dayton will provide remarks at the 2014 Minnesota Veterans Career Fair sponsored by the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development (DEED). The Career Fair, which is the state's largest event tailored specifically for veteran job seekers, will feature more than 140 Minnesota employers. The event is free, and all Minnesota veterans are invited to attend. This event is open to the press.

"Hiring veterans is one of the best investments a business or organization can make," said Governor Dayton. "Minnesota veterans have the skills employers are looking for, including leadership, intelligence, dedication, and loyalty. They offer the energy and know-how our economy needs. I thank the 140 employers who are participating in tomorrow's Career Fair, and offer the state's continued support to help our heroes during their job searches in Minnesota."

Minnesota veterans seeking employment can find additional state resources and assistance on the DEED website here. More information on the Minnesota Veterans Career Fair is available here.
Cargill Yellow Ribbon Ceremony
At 1:30pm on Wednesday afternoon, Governor Dayton will provide remarks at a ceremony marking Cargill's commitment to the Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program. Beyond the Yellow Ribbon is a comprehensive program that helps connect military service members and their families with community support, training, services, and other resources. This event is open to the press.

"The men and women of the Minnesota National Guard, other U.S. Forces, and their families, have earned our admiration and appreciation. They have also earned our continuing assistance," said Governor Dayton. "I thank Cargill for joining hundreds of Yellow Ribbon cities, counties, and businesses, who have committed to support our Minnesota heroes, when they return home."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-135468
