Public Statements
New Pilot Program Offers Free Hotel Accommodations for Military Veterans Searching for Jobs in Minnesota
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 8, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

It just got a little easier for military veterans who are looking for work, to find it here in Minnesota. Today, Minnesota joined three other states in a new pilot program that provides free hotel accommodations to veterans conducting job searches outside the regions where they live. Hilton Worldwide and the National Association of State Workforce Agencies (NASWA) are partnering to offer the Hilton HHonors program to veterans and their families in Minnesota, Iowa, Texas and Arizona.
"Our veterans deserve more than our gratitude and support. Through their service to our state and nation, they have earned every opportunity to find meaningful work," said Governor Mark Dayton. "On behalf of all Minnesotans, I thank Hilton Worldwide and the National Association of State Workforce Agencies for partnering with us to help connect military veterans with good-paying, fulfilling jobs here in Minnesota."
Under the new pilot program, veterans who are searching for employment, attending job interviews or skills training, or are looking for new housing in Minnesota, are eligible for three free nights at a Hilton hotel in our state. According to Hilton Worldwide, the average hotel stay in the Twin Cities Metro Area costs $200 per night. That means veterans who are eligible for free hotel accommodations can save up to $600 under the new pilot program.
"This program is an opportunity to show our support for Minnesota's military veterans and thank them for their service," said Commissioner Katie Clark Sieben of the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development (DEED). "Looking for a job can be costly, and this effort will help offset some of the expenses that veterans face when they travel outside their home regions for job opportunities."
"Hilton Worldwide has been strongly committed to supporting military veterans and their families since our founding nearly a century ago by Conrad Hilton, a U.S. Army veteran who served in World War I," said Rodney Moses, vice president of global recruitment for Hilton. "We are proud to have partnered with NASWA and look forward to working with the state of Minnesota as they launch this exciting Hilton HHonors program."
"The publicly-funded workforce system serves nearly 2 million registered veterans annually, offering access to job openings, training and employment resources," said Rich Hobbie, executive director of NASWA. "State workforce agencies are committed to helping our nation's veterans, and the launch of the Hilton HHonors military initiative will support Minnesota's military families in the pursuit of a civilian career."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-135392
