Public Statements
In State of the State Address, Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton Proposes Reforms to Make Health Coverage More Affordable for Minnesotans
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 24, 2017
Location: St. Paul, MN

Tonight, during his seventh State of the State Address to a joint session of the Minnesota Legislature, Governor Mark Dayton proposed a set of reforms to make health coverage more affordable for Minnesotans who purchase their insurance on the individual market. Governor Dayton's plan would allow Minnesotans to purchase their health insurance through a "public option," by enrolling in MinnesotaCare coverage. MinnesotaCare was established in 1992 by Republican Governor Arne Carlson, and has historically had bipartisan support. Approximately 107,000 Minnesotans are enrolled in MinnesotaCare coverage for 2017.

Governor Dayton's proposal, which he included tonight's address, would expand health care choices for Minnesotans everywhere in the state, increase competition in the health insurance marketplace, and save Minnesotans money on their health care costs.

"This Public Option could offer better benefits than many policies, presently on commercial markets; more options for people to keep their doctors and clinics; and less expensive coverage than what is available today," said Governor Dayton. "The Public Option will also guarantee that all Minnesotans have at least one good option available on the individual market, wherever they live."

In addition to expanding eligibility for MinnesotaCare, Governor Dayton's proposed health reforms include 25 percent premium reductions for 125,000 Minnesotans who have experienced steep premium increases during this Open Enrollment period. The Governor's plan would help improve the choice of doctors and clinics for Minnesotans, and increase transparency in the health insurance marketplace. Additional details about Governor Dayton's proposals are included below. The Governor's remarks regarding health reform, as prepared for delivery, are also included below.

How It Works: Making Health Care More Affordable
Since 2014, more than 250,000 Minnesotans have gained access to health insurance. Now, Minnesota's uninsured rate is the second-lowest in the nation, with nearly 96 percent of Minnesotans covered. But steep premium increases and high deductibles have placed a big financial burden on far too many Minnesotans. Governor Dayton's health reform proposals would provide hardworking Minnesotans more health care choices, encourage competition, and hold insurance companies accountable.

Providing More Affordable Health Care Choices for Minnesotans

· Giving Minnesotans a Choice for More Affordable Health Coverage -- The Governor's proposal would increase competition in the individual health insurance market by giving Minnesotans the choice to purchase another affordable insurance option. It would allow Minnesotans who earn more than 200 percent of the federal poverty level (i.e. a family of four earning over $49,200 per year) the opportunity to purchase MinnesotaCare coverage through MNsure. This would increase choices for middle-class Minnesotans, encourage competition, and ensure all Minnesotans have access to affordable coverage with a comprehensive network of health care providers across the state.

· Saving Minnesotans More Than $800 Per Year, On Average -- Purchasing quality health coverage through MinnesotaCare is less expensive than buying coverage directly from a private insurer, because it leverages the buying power of more than 1 million Minnesotans enrolled in public plans. Minnesotans who purchase MinnesotaCare would get high-quality health coverage for approximately $469 per month, on average. That is more than 12 percent ($69) less than the average statewide premium of $538 for private insurance in 2017. Under the Governor's proposal, families would spend on average $838 per person less in 2018 than in 2017 on their health insurance premiums.

· A Sustainable, Competitive Option for Minnesota -- After a one-time startup investment ($12 million), the cost of Governor Dayton's plan would be funded entirely by the premiums of Minnesotans who choose to buy MinnesotaCare coverage. If the Legislature enacted this proposal by April 1, Minnesotans could purchase MinnesotaCare coverage as early as the 2018 open enrollment period.

Lower Private Health Insurance Premiums

· Cutting 2017 Private Health Insurance Premiums by 25 Percent -- Governor Dayton's proposal would reduce 2017 private health insurance premiums by 25 percent for most individual market policyholders. In October, Governor Mark Dayton proposed a 25 percent health insurance premium rebate for Minnesotans who purchase health insurance in the individual market, but do not receive federal tax credits. The Governor's direct relief would reduce average 2017 rate increases from 55 percent to 16 percent.

Helping Minnesotans Choose and Keep Their Doctors

· Choose and Keep Your Doctor -- Governor Dayton's proposal would improve choice of doctors and clinics for Minnesotans who purchase individual health insurance. The Governor's plan would allow people with serious health conditions to keep their doctors for 120 days into the new plan year, require health insurers to offer at least one plan contract with every primary care provider in every rural county, and close loopholes to ensure that private health insurers are required to contract with more clinics and hospitals.

Holding Health Insurance Companies Accountable

· Increasing Transparency in the Health Insurance Market -- Governor Dayton's proposal would ask the Office of the Legislative Auditor to conduct a comprehensive audit of private health insurers in Minnesota. The audit would review insurers' administrative expenses, reserves, and payment rates to health care providers to ensure the highest level of transparency and accountability for any rate increases.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/274572
