Public Statements
Governor Mark Dayton to Host 67th Annual Governor's Fishing Opener
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 8, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

As nearly 500,000 Minnesotans gear up to go fishing this weekend, Governor Mark Dayton is getting ready to host Minnesota's 67th Annual Governor's Fishing Opener in the Brainerd Lakes Area. Headquartered at Grand View Lodge, the weekend's events will feature fishing, family fun activities, a live concert with the Gear Daddies, and a community picnic in downtown Nisswa that is expected to draw a crowd of more than 5,000 Minnesotans.

"I thank the Brainerd and Nisswa communities, and Grand View Lodge, for their tremendous work in hosting this year's Governor's Fishing Opener," said Governor Dayton. "Lt. Governor Prettner Solon and I are looking forward to this weekend's events. With help from my great fishing guide Ray Gildow, and a little bit of luck, I hope to catch a fish this weekend."

The Governor's Fishing Opener has been a tradition in Minnesota since 1948. The event was designed to promote the development of Minnesota's recreation industry, and in recent years, it has served as a kick-off celebration for the summer tourism season. Fishing generates an estimated $2.4 billion in direct retail sales annually in Minnesota, supporting 35,000 jobs statewide. Minnesota has the second-highest angler participation rate of any state in the nation (32 percent).

"The Brainerd Lakes Area is home to some of the finest fishing in the world. This weekend, I look forward to catching plenty of fish and promoting the great recreational experiences that our state offers," said Lt. Governor Prettner Solon. "I also want to extend my gratitude to the people of Nisswa and Brainerd for their hospitality and for organizing the 2014 Opener."

For more information about the 2014 Governor's Fishing Opener, including a full list of public events, visit this website. Photos of Governor Dayton, Lt. Governor Prettner Solon, and various Fishing Opener activities will be posted online at this link throughout the weekend.

In conjunction with the Fishing Opener, Governor Dayton is launching his official Instagram page. Follow @GovMarkDayton and the hashtag #GFO2014 throughout the event for photos and updates.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-128878
