Public Statements
Minnesota Launches its Largest-Ever Marketing Effort to Boost Tourism
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 17, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today at the Minnesota State Capitol, Governor Mark Dayton and Explore Minnesota Tourism Director John Edman launched the state's all-new travel marketing campaign, designed to encourage travelers to choose Minnesota as their next vacation destination. The marketing campaign, themed Only in Minnesota, promotes Minnesota as a one-of-a-kind Midwest travel destination. This year's effort, which will reach audiences in 14 states and provinces, is the largest travel marketing campaign in the state's history.
"Every dollar we invest in promoting Minnesota tourism brings another $84 of consumer spending into our state's economy -- supporting Minnesota's vitally important hospitality industry," said Governor Dayton. "That is why I worked with the Legislature last year to increase Explore Minnesota Tourism's budget by over 65 percent."
Promoting what is unique and special about our state is what the Only in Minnesota travel marketing campaign is all about -- celebrating specific travel adventures, activities, and attractions that can only be found in Minnesota.
"Minnesota is an exciting state; there are numerous diverse opportunities for travelers and tourism stakeholders alike to rally and share authentic Minnesota travel experiences," said John Edman, Director of Explore Minnesota Tourism. "This new campaign is a movement that will highlight unique Minnesota attractions and engage consumers in conversation about Minnesota travel. This cutting-edge campaign allows our state to be more competitive, and grow tourism across Minnesota."
Only in Minnesota: Promoting What Makes Our State Special
Research shows that travelers want to experience new and unique things when they travel. That is why the Only in Minnesota campaign features Minnesota's distinct outdoor adventures, cultural experiences, and unique landmarks -- differentiating Minnesota from other Midwest travel destinations. From camping and hiking in Minnesota's great outdoors, to enjoying the nightlife of the big city, to experiencing the charm of a local restaurant, this year's advertisements set Minnesota apart. And in keeping with the Only in Minnesota theme, the campaign incorporates homegrown Minnesota talent, including local musicians, and writers.

Source:
