Public Statements
DEED Awards First Job Creation Fund Projects
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 25, 2014
Location: Unknown

The Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development (DEED) announced the first projects awarded funding under the Minnesota Job Creation Fund, a new $24 million program approved by Governor Mark Dayton and the Minnesota Legislature last spring for economic development.
"Minnesota employers have added almost 150,000 jobs during the last three years," said Governor Dayton. "But we still have more work to do to continue our state's economic growth, and create more good-paying jobs for Minnesotans. The investments we are making today through the Job Creation Fund will create hundreds of jobs in communities throughout Minnesota."
The first round of project awards total $2.27 million and will assist companies in creating 240 jobs in Minnesota. The companies are:
Axis Clinicals, LLC (Dilworth) is a clinical trial company that is a subsidiary of Axis Clinicals LTD, an Indian company. Locating a new facility in Dilworth, the company has plans to create up to 100 new full-time permanent jobs and will invest approximately $12 million in the first phase of the project. The company will receive up to $779,988 from the Minnesota Job Creation Fund.
Bluegrass Proteins (Dawson) is based in Kentucky and will be expanding to Dawson in La Qui Parle County. The company plans to create 56 new full-time, permanent jobs and invest about $18.2 million in a facility that will dry whey (a milk byproduct) to produce proteins and permeates as a food additive. The company will receive up to $650,000 from the Minnesota Job Creation Fund.
Harmony Enterprises (Harmony) provides worldwide waste management and recycling solutions through manufacture of waste compactors and recycling balers. They will expand their current operations in Harmony and will add 14 full-time, permanent jobs and invest about $1.1 million. The company will receive up to $215,000 from the Minnesota Job Creation Fund.

Source:
