Public Statements
Governor Dayton Expands Heating Assistance Program to Help More Minnesotans
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 4, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

As Minnesota's propane emergency continues -- with heating fuel prices now three to four times their usual level -- Governor Mark Dayton has taken executive action to expand eligibility for the state's heating assistance program. That action, which was implemented this morning by the state's Commissioner of Commerce, means an estimated 120,000 more Minnesota households will now qualify for assistance from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The Minnesota Department of Commerce estimates that because of this change, an additional 30,000 to 40,000 newly-eligible Minnesotans will apply for heating assistance this winter.

The executive action announced by Governor Dayton today extends eligibility for heating assistance from 50 percent of the state median income (SMI) to 60 percent of SMI. Under these new income guidelines, households of four earning less than $52,370 per year, for example, will now be eligible for heating assistance. A household of two earning less than $35,612 per year would qualify. By expanding the LIHEAP program, Governor Dayton hopes to provide needed financial assistance for tens of thousands of Minnesota families who are now struggling to pay for the rising price of propane and other heating fuels.

"Minnesotans across our state are living in fear that they will run out of the fuels they need to keep their families safe and warm," said Governor Dayton. "This crisis requires immediate action, which I have taken today. I will continue to do everything I can to ensure the safety of our citizens during this serious emergency."

The Minnesota Department of Commerce recently announced that LIHEAP crisis payments would increase from $500 to $1,000 for applicants who heat their homes with propane and heating oil. These increased allocations will apply to all Minnesota households now eligible for LIHEAP assistance under the executive action announced today.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-113909
