Public Statements
State Launches New Minnesota Job Creation Fund
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 10, 2014
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today at the Minnesota State Capitol, Governor Mark Dayton and Commissioner Katie Clark Sieben announced that businesses looking to expand their operations and hire new workers in Minnesota may now qualify for assistance from the newly-created Minnesota Job Creation Fund. This pay-for-performance business development initiative, administered by the state's Department of Employment and Economic Development (DEED), will help create an estimated 5,000 new jobs statewide and attract another $450 million of private investment into Minnesota's growing economy.
"Over the last three years Minnesota has added more than 122,700 new jobs, regaining all the jobs that were lost during the Great Recession," said Governor Dayton. "But we cannot afford to rest on our laurels now. The strength of our economy and the security of middle class Minnesota families depend on the investments we make today to accelerate job growth and get every Minnesotan back to work. Every job matters; and that is why initiatives like the Minnesota Job Creation Fund are so important."
The $24 million Minnesota Job Creation Fund, proposed by Governor Dayton and passed by the Minnesota Legislature in 2013, will replace the state's JOBZ program, which is set to expire in 2015. The new fund will provide up to $1 million to businesses after they meet certain criteria, including minimum requirements for job creation and private investment. Under the program, businesses must create at least 10 full-time jobs and invest at least $500,000 in their own developments to be eligible for financial assistance.
"The Minnesota Job Creation Fund will not only provide access to capital for businesses that need assistance to expand or move their operations to Minnesota, but it will add high-quality jobs to the state's economy," said DEED Commissioner Katie Clark Sieben. "This pay-for-performance tool will continue the economic momentum we have built since recovering from the recession."
The Department of Employment and Economic Development is currently accepting Minnesota Job Creation Fund applications from businesses seeking financial assistance to expand or locate in Minnesota. Businesses engaged in manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, and technology may be eligible for assistance. Companies must work with the local government (city, county or township) where a project is located in order to be eligible for assistance. More details about the Minnesota Job Creation Fund, including program requirements and application materials, are available on the DEED website at www.tinyurl.com/JobCreationFund.






Source:
