Public Statements
Governor Dayton Appoints Suzanne Bollman and Amy R. Brosnahan to Fill Tenth Judicial District Vacancies
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 21, 2013
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Mark Dayton announced the appointment of Ms. Suzanne Bollman and Ms. Amy R. Brosnahan as District Court Judges in Minnesota's Tenth Judicial District. Ms. Bollman will be replacing the Honorable Elizabeth H. Martin and Ms. Brosnahan will be replacing the Honorable P. Hunter Anderson, who both retired earlier this year. Ms. Bollman will be chambered at Center City in Chisago County while Ms. Brosnahan will be chambered at Cambridge in Isanti County.
"Throughout their careers, Kanabec County Attorney Amy Brosnahan and Ms. Suzanne Bollman have shown their strong commitments to justice," said Governor Mark Dayton. "Their records of public service, combined with their years of professional experience in the court systems, qualify both of them very well for these judgeships in the Tenth Judicial District."
Suzanne Bollman: Ms. Bollman currently serves as an Assistant Sherburne County Attorney, where she is responsible for criminal prosecution, reviewing search warrants, advising law enforcement and law enforcement training. Previously, she was an Assistant Stearns County Attorney, an Assistant Benton County Attorney and an Assistant City Attorney for the City of St. Cloud. Ms. Bollman earned her B.A. from Saint Olaf College and her J.D. from the Hamline University School of Law.
Additionally, Ms. Bollman was a member of the Supreme Court Gender Fairness Implementation Committee and the City of Ramsey Public Safety Board, and currently serves as a union negotiator and steward for AFCSME.
Ms. Bollman resides with her family in Ramsey, MN.
Amy R. Brosnahan: Ms. Brosnahan currently serves as the Kanabec County Attorney, where her practice focuses on serious felony criminal prosecution and serving as legal advisor for Kanabec County. Previously, she was the Assistant Kanabec County Attorney, and, prior to that, was an attorney at the law firm of Leonard, Street & Dienard, where she practiced intellectual property, products liability and construction litigation. Ms. Brosnahan earned her B.A. from the University of California, Davis, her J.D. from the William Mitchell College of Law and her English Educational Teaching Credential from San Francisco State University.
Additionally, Ms. Brosnahan has served with the boards of the Methamphetamine Task Force/Substance Abuse Coalition of Kanabec County, the Paradise Theatre in Mora, MN and WINDOW Victim Services.
Ms. Brosnahan resides with her family in Knife Lake Township, MN.
Minnesota's Tenth Judicial District consists of Anoka, Chisago, Isanti, Kanabec, Pine, Sherburne, Washington and Wright Counties.
More information on the Commission on Judicial Selection, as well as vacancies it is currently considering, can be found at http://mn.gov/governor/appointments/judicial-appointments/

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-95326
