Public Statements
Dayton Jobs Proposal to put 21,000 Minnesotans Back to Work
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 8, 2013
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today introduced a bonding proposal that would invest $750 million in infrastructure projects statewide, creating an estimated 21,000 Minnesota jobs. The plan -- which builds on the Governor's proposed budget measures to get Minnesotans back to work -- would address many of the state's needed infrastructure improvements and strengthen Minnesota's economy.
"My proposals will put thousands of Minnesotans back to work throughout our state," said Governor Dayton. "It gives priority to projects that are ready to go. Many of them have been delayed for years and are needed to revitalize downtown business centers, modernize college classrooms and laboratories, and improve infrastructure throughout our state."
State Capitol Restoration
The Governor's bonding proposal would invest $109 million in a major restoration of the state Capitol, making the building functional and safe for the next 100 years. For three decades, plans for repairing the aging building have been debated and neglected. But the funding provided in this bonding proposal would complete restoration of the building by the end of 2016. Restoration measures would include:
Replacing the roof and completing repair of the crumbling stone exterior
Replacing of the corroded plumbing system, which was first installed in 1905
Upgrading the building's mechanical and electrical systems
Making the building more energy efficient
Improving access to the Capitol for all Minnesotans
Enhancing the safety and security of the building and improving telecommunications
Higher Education
Governor Dayton's bonding proposal also invests $189 million in our state's higher education systems to ensure that Minnesota students have access to world-class labs, classrooms, and training for the jobs of the future. Highlights of education projects included in the governor's proposal include:
$35 million for infrastructure improvements at 25 MnSCU campuses statewide
$85 million to complete the STEM Tate Laboratory renovation at the University of Minnesota
$32.5 million for build new teaching and research labs, classrooms, and student support areas at Metro State University in St. Paul; this will allow the university to add five new science degrees
$15 million for infrastructure improvements at eight University of Minnesota campuses statewide
Regional Civic Centers and Downtown Improvements
The governor's bonding proposal invests $98.5 million in the downtowns of regional centers; projects that will create jobs, attract additional private investment, and support economic development in communities across Minnesota. Those investments include:
$35 million for the Rochester Civic Center expansion
$20 million for reconstruction of Nicollet Avenue in downtown Minneapolis
$14.5 million for a new addition to the Mankato Civic Center
$14 million to double the size of the Children's Museum in downtown St. Paul
$10.1 million for an expansion of the St. Cloud Civic Center
Roads and Bridges
Investing in strong, reliable transportation infrastructure is a critical part of building an economic environment where businesses can thrive. Repairing our roads and bridges for the future with smart investments will help support and attract businesses, and put hundreds of Minnesotans back to work in the construction trades. That is why the Governor's bonding proposal invests $46.6 million in transportation infrastructure, including:
$25 million to improve local roads at the TCAAP site in Arden Hills and the Trunk Highway Turnback in Rochester
$20 million to fund bridge repair and replacements statewide
$1.6 million to make needed improvements at the Metro Bus Operations Center in St. Cloud
Other Investments
The proposal also includes additional investments in projects of statewide and regional importance, including:
$57.8 million investment in veterans, including an expansion of the Minneapolis Veterans Home and other improvements statewide
$54.8 million for regional treatment centers and mental health facilities
$50.3 million for asset preservation and infrastructure improvements at state correctional facilities
$40 million for affordable housing
$51.5 million for pollution abatement, wastewater infrastructure, and clean water projects statewide
$24 million to improve roads, bridges, and buildings at state parks and trails
$15 million for flood hazard mitigation in Moorhead
$4 million for parks and trails
$3 million for reforestation projects in state forests
A complete list of projects and an interactive map are available on the Governor's website.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-57774
