Public Statements
Minnesota receives $45 Million Grant to expand nation-leading health reform initiative
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 21, 2013
Location: St. Paul, MN

Today, the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) announced Minnesota as a winner of $45 million in state Innovation Model funding. Minnesota was one of six states to receive the highest level of award. Minnesota's winning grant proposal, The Minnesota Accountable Health Model, will ensure that every citizen of the state of Minnesota has the option to receive team-based, coordinated, patient-centered care that increases and facilitates access to medical care, behavioral health care, long term care, and other services. Minnesota's proposal focuses on building the technological infrastructure that will allow providers to better coordinate care for their patients.

"This award is another example that Commissioner Lucinda Jesson's reform initiatives at the Department of Human Services are leading the nation," said Governor Mark Dayton.

The Minnesota Accountable Health Model was developed using guidelines that emerged from the Governor's Health Reform Task Force. Its focus on health information technology investments to build the foundation for statewide success was a key factor in Minnesota's successful application, and was brought to life by the discussions of the task force.

Minnesota is a leader in health care," said DHS Commissioner Lucinda Jesson, "but millions of Minnesotans continue to experience fragmented, uncoordinated care. This lack of coordination between services results in higher costs and poorer health. This model will lay a foundation so that all Minnesotans, whether they get care through Medicaid, Medicare or private insurance, will receive the benefits of a better coordinated system."

A significant investment of the $45 million is in health information technology. Other investments will support quality and performance measurement, support practices to improve care coordination and to support up to 15 Accountable Communities for Health to develop models that integrate care across the health care system. Providers in smaller practices, rural areas and who serve the health care safety net will be prioritized across these activities.

"This is a great opportunity to engage with communities to transform health care delivery in Minnesota," said Minnesota Commissioner of Health Dr. Ed Ehlinger. "Medical care, dental care, social services, long-term care, public health, and mental health services, have long been operating in different silos. This initiative will provide us with a chance to bring these services together to create healthier communities."

Implementation of the Model will be led by the Commissioner of Human Services and the Commissioner of Health in consultation with a Community Advisory Committee and others. By 2016, nearly 3 million Minnesotans are expected to receive care through the Model. The state will also benefit more generally through investments in infrastructure, care integration and the transform of how medicine is practiced among health care and other providers. The model is projected to save $111 million over three years and lay the foundation for additional savings in years to come.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-55153
