Public Statements
Governor Mark Dayton Proclaims July "Hire a Veteran" Month
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 11, 2012
Location: Saint Paul, MN

Today, Governor Mark Dayton officially proclaimed July 2012 "Hire a Veteran Month." Governor Dayton was joined at the event by Department of Veterans Affairs Commissioner Larry Shellito, Minnesota National Guard Adjutant General Richard Nash, Department of Employment and Economic Development Commissioner Mark Phillips, and Minnesota Yellow Ribbon Company US Bank.
"Hiring veterans is one of the best investments businesses can make in the future success of their companies and of our state," Governor Mark Dayton said. "Veterans have the skills Minnesota employers are looking for, including leadership, intelligence, dedication, and loyalty. They also have proven their abilities to perform at the highest levels under all kinds of pressures and conditions.
"Our office recently hired a Minnesota veteran, after she returned from serving with the Minnesota National Guard in support of "Operation Iraqi Freedom.' Through her service in the Guard, she developed outstanding professional skills, which she is now using to serve the people of Minnesota from our office.
"I urge Minnesota businesses and other employers to make special efforts this month to hire veterans. They have earned it, and your organizations will be the better for it."
The "Hire a Veteran" month proclamation officially kicked off the Minnesota Veterans Career Fair, an event sponsored by the Department of Employment and Economic Development, in partnership with the Minnesota National Guard and Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs. Over 1,000 current and former veterans and 120 Minnesota businesses with employment opportunities are expected to participate in the event held at the Earl Brown Heritage Center in Brooklyn Center, MN.
Today's fair is one of several veterans' career events that will take place with local partners throughout the state in the coming weeks and months. For up to date information on upcoming veterans employment events in your area visit www.positivelyminnesota.com and click on the events tab.
The Minnesota Veterans Career Fair is part of ongoing efforts by the Dayton administration to promote veterans employment and connect Minnesota military veterans with employers that are hiring.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-44712
