Public Statements
Governor Dayton Appoints Martha Holton Dimick, Kathleen Sheehy, and Edward Wahl to Fill Fourth Judicial District Vacancies
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 30, 2012
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Mark Dayton announced the appointment of Ms. Martha Holton Dimick, Ms. Kathleen Sheehy and Mr. Edward Wahl as District Court Judges in Minnesota's Fourth Judicial District. Ms. Holton Dimick, Ms. Sheehy and Mr. Wahl will be replacing the Honorable Cara Lee Neville, the Honorable Beryl A. Nord, and the Honorable George F. McGunnigle who all retired earlier this year. All three seats will be chambered at Minneapolis in Hennepin County.

"Ms. Dimick, Ms. Sheehy and Mr. Wahl have outstanding legal skills, as well as proven commitments to public service. They will be excellent members of the bench in Minnesota's Fourth Judicial District," said Governor Dayton about the appointments. "I commend them for their impressive professional accomplishments and I thank them for their willingness to serve in these most important positions."

Martha A. Holton Dimick-Ms. Holton Dimick serves as the Deputy City Attorney of the Criminal Division of the Minneapolis City Attorney's Office where she supervises attorneys, paralegals and support staff to ensure timely prosecution of crimes committed in Minneapolis. She also works as an adjunct professor for the Writing, Representation, Advice & Persuasion Program at William Mitchell College of Law. Ms. Holton Dimick previously served as an Assistant County Attorney with Hennepin County within its Adult Prosecution Violent Crimes Division and previously served as the community prosecutor for the Fourth Police Precinct in North Minneapolis. She was also an associate attorney with Gray Plant Mooty. Ms. Holton Dimick earned a B.S. in Nursing from Alverno College, in 1981; and a J.D. from Marquette University Law School in 1991.
Additionally, Ms. Holton Dimick is a mentor with the University of Minnesota Law School's mentorship program and is the Secretary of the Executive Committee of the DeLaSalle Board of Trustees. She is a past member and chair of the Council on Black Minnesotans and was a member of the Minnesota Women Lawyers Board of Directors and the Hennepin County Bar Association's Fourth District Ethics Committee. Ms. Holton Dimick resides in Minneapolis with her family.
Kathleen D. Sheehy-Ms. Sheehy is an Administrative Law Judge at the Minnesota Office of Administrative Hearings where she conducts hearings and drafts reports in contested cases in all substantive areas. She also conducts mediations and rule hearings, and reviews rules proposed by state agencies. Prior to working at the Office of Administrative Hearings, Ms. Sheehy was an attorney at Dorsey & Whitney for 9 years, practicing within commercial, antitrust and employment litigation. She received her B.A. from the University of Minnesota in 1978; and a J.D. from the University of Minnesota Law School in 1984.
Additionally, Ms. Sheehy is currently a Community Crime Prevention Block Club Leader with the Minneapolis Police Department and is a parent volunteer with Southwest High School. She was also a parent volunteer with Kenny Community School and Anthony Middle School and was a reading tutor with Kenny Community School's Read Naturally program. Ms. Sheehy resides in Minneapolis with her family.
Edward T. Wahl-Mr. Wahl is a partner with Faegre Baker Daniels LLP in Minneapolis where he practices in financial and commercial litigation including matters involving financial institutions, fiduciary duties and fraud. Prior to this, he was a partner with Oppenheimer Wolff & Donnelly LLP. Mr. Wahl provides pro bono representation on a regular basis by representing guardians ad litem, volunteering with Hennepin County's LAP Clinic, and assisting various other individuals and organizations. He received his B.A. with honors from Northwestern University in 1978; his M.A. from the University of Virginia in 1980; and his J.D. from the University of Chicago Law School in 1983.
Additionally, Mr. Wahl is an active member of the Minnesota Private College Council's board and executive committee and of the board of the Urban Debate League, a non-profit dedicated to returning interscholastic debate to urban schools in the Twin Cities and of Milkweed Editions, a non-profit press. He also serves on the steering committee for the YWCA's annual program, It's Time to Talk About Race, and he served as chair of the Nominations Committee for the Hennepin County Bar Association. Mr. Wahl resides in Minneapolis.

Minnesota's Fourth Judicial District consists of Hennepin County.

More information on the Commission on Judicial Selection as well as vacancies it is currently considering, can be found at http://mn.gov/governor/appointments/judicial-appointments/

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/pressreleasedetail.jsp?id=102-41854
