Public Statements
Obama Administration and Great Lakes States Announce Agreement to Spur Development of Offshore Wind Projects
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton Pat Quinn Andrew Cuomo Tom Corbett
Date: March 30, 2012
Location: Washington, DC

As part of President Obama's blueprint for an economy built to last, the Obama Administration today joined with the governors of Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, New York and Pennsylvania to announce the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that will focus the efforts of key federal and state regulatory agencies to promote the efficient and responsible development of offshore wind resources in the Great Lakes. This effort underscores the President's commitment to American energy sources that will increase economic competitiveness, boost our energy independence, and create jobs.
"President Obama is taking an all-of-the-above approach to energy, including doubling down on developing clean sources like wind," said Nancy Sutley, Chair of the White House Council on Environmental Quality. "This agreement among Federal agencies and Great Lakes states is a smart, practical way to encourage the development of homegrown energy that will create jobs, power homes, and reduce pollution in American communities."
"As the President has made clear, an American economy that lasts is one built on American energy, designed and produced by American workers," said Deputy Energy Secretary Daniel Poneman. "This effort will allow us to tap into our abundant offshore resources, enhancing our energy security through an all-of-the-above strategy that develops every available source of American energy."
The MOU will enhance collaboration between Federal and State agencies to speed review of proposed offshore wind projects. Specifically, Federal and State agencies will develop an action plan that sets priorities and recommends steps for achieving efficient and responsible evaluation of proposed offshore wind power projects in the Great Lakes region.
Unlocking the Great Lakes' offshore wind energy resources could yield tremendous economic and environmental benefits throughout the region, and has the potential to produce more than 700 gigawatts of energy from offshore wind, about one fifth of the total offshore wind potential in the U.S. The development of even a small portion of the area's offshore wind potential could create tens of thousands of clean energy jobs and generate revenue for local businesses.

Source:
