Public Statements
Dayton-Smith Administration Announces Grants to Fund School Counselors and Student Support Staff at 77 Schools
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 18, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

During the 2016 Legislative Session, Governor Mark Dayton and Lt. Governor Tina Smith worked with the Minnesota Legislature to secure a $12 million investment for school support staff. The new resources are now helping 77 schools across Minnesota add school counselors, school psychologists, social workers, chemical dependency counselors, and school nurses for the next six years. The additional counselors and other support staff will begin to alleviate Minnesota's shortage of student support personnel.

"School counselors and other support staff help guide Minnesota students throughout their academic careers. Expanding access to this critical guidance will leave our students better prepared for college and careers," said Governor Dayton. "I thank the Legislature for their support of this initiative during the 2016 Session. I hope we can expand upon it next year."

The $12 million investment will be distributed as grants to 37 school districts, funding 40 school counselors, 21 school social workers, 7 chemical dependency counselors, 6 school psychologists, and 3 school nurses.

"Minnesota ranks nearly last in the United States -- providing only 1 counselor for every 792 students. That's more than three times the recommended ratio," said Lt. Governor Smith. "These grants will help more Minnesota students receive the support they need for success in school and life. We must continue to build on these efforts so all Minnesota children receive the assistance they need."

Of the 77 schools receiving funds, 40 are non-metro schools and 37 are in the metro area. More than 100 school sites applied for funding. Priority was given to school sites in which student support services personnel positions do not currently exist.

"I was proud to author this important provision that will benefit Minnesota students and schools across the state," said Senator Susan Kent, who chief-authored the provision in the Minnesota Senate. "These new positions will provide crucial support to our students, helping to improve attendance, address physical and mental health, guide students in preparing for career and college, and reach graduation."

Districts applying for funds are required to match the state funds dollar for dollar for the first four years of the grant, extending the impact of the state's investment. School districts will match $3 for every state dollar in the fifth and sixth year of the grant.

"Minnesota spends about half the national average on student support services, according to a MPR analysis of U.S. Census Bureau's annual survey of school finances. That means about 2.6 percent of education funding is directed at support services in schools, while the national average is 5.5 percent," said State Rep. Alice Hausman, who chief-authored the provision in the Minnesota House. "My provision will help Minnesota catch up to the rest of the nation by making investments in school counselors, psychologists, social workers, nurses or chemical dependency counselors that directly impact the success of our students."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/263422
