Public Statements
Governor Dayton, Lt. Governor Smith Partner with Women's Foundation of Minnesota to Improve Opportunity for Young Women
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Oct. 25, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton, Lt. Governor Tina Smith, and the Women's Foundation of Minnesota today announced the launch of the Young Women's Initiative of Minnesota (YWI MN), a new effort aimed at improving opportunity for young women in Minnesota. YWI MN will bring together nonprofits, businesses, government, philanthropies, and young women to create a plan to build equity in outcomes for young women in our state, allowing them to lead safe, prosperous lives. It is the first statewide initiative of its kind in the nation.

"We must continue working to build a state where all Minnesotans have equal opportunity to succeed," said Governor Dayton. "This partnership is an important step in improving equity and opportunity for young women in Minnesota, especially young women of color. I thank the Women's Foundation of Minnesota for their leadership on this critical issue."

The Young Women's Initiative of Minnesota is focused on improving the lives of young women between the ages of 12 and 24. The first phase of the program will engage three core committees in development of an Action Plan, to create opportunities for young women in Minnesota to achieve equity in outcomes. The Action Plan will be released in April 2017.

"This effort will bring together young women from throughout Minnesota and ask what we can do together to expand opportunity for all of them," said Lt. Governor Smith. "This is important: young women of color, American Indian young women, those with disabilities, young women from Greater Minnesota, and youth who identify as LGBTQ today face an opportunity gap. If we don't see this gap and develop an action plan to address it, nothing will change. We can't afford to waste any of the talent and potential of these young women."

Minnesota is often ranked a top state for women, but disparities persist for young women of color, American Indian young women, young women from Greater Minnesota, LGBTQ youth, and young women with disabilities. Young women of color and American Indian young women in Minnesota experience significantly higher rates of homelessness, teen pregnancy, poor health outcomes, foster care, parental incarceration, involvement in the juvenile justice system, and sex trafficking. Data show that LGBTQ youth and young women with disabilities can face similar challenges.

"While there is a lot of innovation by communities, philanthropies, government, and the private sector to advance equity for young women, that work is not linked to a broader plan," said Lee Roper-Batker, president & CEO of the Women's foundation of Minnesota. "Until today, no state in the nation has established a formal statewide initiative whose sole purpose is to pull all that innovation together into a cohesive, strategic, cross-sector model and plan of action addressing the opportunity gaps for young women -- we have now done so with the Young Women's Initiative of Minnesota."

"We want every young woman in Minnesota -- and every Minnesotan -- to have access to equal opportunity in order to create and lead safe and prosperous lives," said Roper-Batker. "We know that when young women do better, their communities do better, and we all do better."

The Young Women's Initiative of Minnesota is a parallel response to My Brother's Keeper, a coordinated federal effort to address persistent opportunity gaps faced by boys and young men of color.

"The White House Council on Women and Girls has made a lot of progress over President Obama's time in office pushing the issues that women and girls of color face to the forefront, and we're conscious of how much work remains. That's why I'm thrilled that the Young Women's Initiative of Minnesota will be carrying forward this important work to ensure that all of our girls have the opportunities and support to achieve their dreams. Minnesota's example is a testament to what strong local and state leadership can do for our communities," said Valerie Jarrett, Senior Advisor to President Obama and Chair of the White House Council on Women and Girls.

Source:
