Public Statements
Committed to "Getting Minnesota Back to Work," Governor Dayton Advances Jobs Bill
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 31, 2011
Location: Saint Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today announced a $1 billion Bonding Bill to create jobs now and stimulate economic growth throughout Minnesota. Dayton proposes $531 million in investments in over 300 critical infrastructure projects; and, in an unusual, if not unprecedented approach, the Governor has purposely left the other half ($470 million), and has invited the Legislature to fill that half of the bill with projects it deems most important. The projects funded are estimated to create up to 28,000 jobs, based upon an analysis by Dr. Stephen Fuller, Faculty Chair and Director of the Center for Regional Analysis at George Mason University(1).
Dayton said, "In my Inaugural Address earlier this month, I said that my top priority was to get Minnesotans working again. This Billion Dollar Bonding Bill is another important Jobs Initiative, in addition to my Early Medicaid Opt-in and Permit Streamlining Executive Orders.
"Studies estimate that a billion dollars of public bonding, when aimed at "shovel ready' and "paint and repair' projects, such as those in my proposal, can create up to 28,000 private sector jobs. With unemployment as high as 50% in the building trades in some parts of Minnesota, these jobs are critically important to Minnesota workers, to their families, and to communities across our state.
"Unlike previous bonding bills, in which governors identified all of the projects and Legislators had to eliminate some of them to include their own, I have purposely left open almost half of my proposed billion dollars of bonding for Legislators to insert their own projects. This approach is in keeping with the hand of cooperation that I have extended to the Legislature, inviting all of them to work in partnership with me to help create more jobs throughout our state. I urge them to act swiftly to pass this bill. Every day delayed is another day when unemployed Minnesotans are left sitting, rather than working."
Dayton made today's announcement surrounded by those who would be positively impacted by today's job creation efforts: construction workers, college and university students in cutting-edge fields such as nano-technology, and Mayors of the communities who will see economic gains as a direct result of a bonding bill.

Source:
