Public Statements
Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith Celebrate Completion of the Highway 610 Project
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Oct. 20, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton and Lt. Governor Tina Smith today celebrated the upcoming completion of Highway 610 in Maple Grove, a 30-year-long project to connect commuters from the northwest suburbs with Interstate 94. The connection is expected to spur further economic growth and opportunity throughout the northwest Twin Cities metro, while also serving as a relief valve for rush hour traffic on Interstate 94. The project was funded by a $75.3 million grant from the State of Minnesota's Corridors of Commerce program, which Governor Dayton worked with the 2013 Legislature to create. The remaining $5.4 million in funding came from the federal government and the City of Maple Grove.

At the ceremony, Lt. Governor Smith was joined by local and state leaders, and representatives from the federal government.

"I thank the many Mayors, County Commissioners, and Civic Leaders, who for more than three decades put tremendous efforts into completing the Highway 610 project," said Governor Dayton. "Thanks to them, Minnesotans will enjoy faster and safer travel, better job access, and greater opportunities throughout the region."

The first segment that extended Highway 610 between Highway 25 and the junctions of Highway 47 and Highway 10 was completed in 1986. Since then, four more segments have been built to bring the highway to its final junction with Interstate 94. Work on the expansion of Highway 610 between Elm Creek Boulevard and Interstate 94 in Maple Grove began in the fall of 2014. It is expected to complete by mid-November.

"The Highway 610 project will reduce congestion and create new economic opportunity in the northwest metro area," said Lt. Governor Smith. "The economic growth along the corridor made it an excellent candidate for Corridors of Commerce funding. We must continue to make investments in our infrastructure, to make this same growth and opportunity available to all Minnesotans, everywhere in our state."

The Highway 610 corridor is home to many large employers, including Target, Olympus Surgical, Baxter International, and PrairieCare. Communities along the corridor already are home to approximately 80,000 jobs. This area is projected to add more than 40,000 additional jobs by 2040.

The Corridors of Commerce program is designed to invest in roadways that have a significant effect on commerce. To date, the program has invested more than $330 million in projects across the state that are intended to support and promote state and local economic activity.

"We need to take care of our transportation system, which is critical to our economy," said Transportation Commissioner Charlie Zelle. "The Corridors of Commerce program is a down payment of sorts on transportation projects that are important to Minnesota's future and quality of life. These projects will improve traffic movement and the flow of freight, which will lead to better business and, ultimately, a stronger economy."

Despite the success of the Corridors of Commerce program, no future projects can be funded unless new resources for the program are identified. This funding shortage highlights Minnesota's ongoing need for a long-term, sustainable transportation funding plan that will allow us to continue to maintain and improve our state's transportation system. In 2015, the Minnesota Department of Transportation found that Minnesota has a $16.3 billion funding deficit over the next two decades to simply maintain the current system.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/260880
