Public Statements
Dayton Releases Education Plan
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 22, 2010
Location: Saint Paul, MN

Today Mark Dayton released his education plan at Dayton's Bluff elementary school. Dayton pointed to the school as an example of what can be achieved when excellent teaching and good policy come together.
A strong education system is the cornerstone for job growth and the fact is that Minnesota under Tim Pawlenty has been disinvesting in our schools. Over the last eight years schools have seen a $1300 decrease in real, per-pupil funding, and the result has been larger class-sizes, schools going to four-day weeks and our children less prepared for the future.
Dayton's plan calls for innovative reforms and a dedicated effort, including a renewed commitment to investments, to bring all-day kindergarten to every school, providing early childhood opportunities to every child in Minnesota, training and retaining great teachers, utilizing effective public\private partnerships and smaller class sizes.
These are strategies that are proven to increase education outcomes and lower the achievement gap, and Dayton's Bluff is an example of what can be achieved when these are implemented.
Ten years ago it was rated as one of the worst public schools in the state. In 2001, just one-fourth of Dayton's Bluff's students earned passing scores on state reading tests, and only 19 percent in math.
Through all-day kindergarten, early childhood family education programs, great teachers and a public/private partnership called Achievement Plus, Dayton's Bluff has become one of the best schools in Minnesota.
In 2009, the Minnesota Business Partnership awarded the school its "Minnesota's Future" award, which recognizes schools for raising overall student performance and closing the achievement gap.
Earlier in the day Dayton spoke to the Minnesota Business Partnership's board of directors on the critical link between education and job creation.
Dayton said:
"If every Minnesota school had all-day kindergarten, early childhood family education programs, great teachers and effective public-private partnerships there would be no achievement gap and our state would be creating the businesses of the future. There is no better job creator than a great education, and as governor I will work to make sure that every child in Minnesota receives one."
Other major components of Dayton's plan include:
--Testing that boosts student achievement
--Sharing best practices and innovation among teachers and schools
--placing more emphasis on math, science and technology
--Equipping every school with modern technology

Source: http://markdayton.org/mainsite/2010/09/22/dayton-releases-education-plan/
