Public Statements
Coleman Praises Passage Of Postal Reform Bill
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Dec. 9, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


COLEMAN PRAISES PASSAGE OF POSTAL REFORM BILL
Senator Norm Coleman today applauded the Senate's unanimous passage of the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act conference report, which will preserve the United States Postal Service as an affordable and universal mail service. This legislation improves the efficiency and effectiveness of the Postal Service by ensuring that postal managers have the ability to remain competitive, that unfunded liabilities be dealt with in a timely manner, that collective bargaining for postal employees be preserved, and that the pricing process for products and services is simplified. Additionally the bill caps rate increases so they stay at or below inflation which will prevent fluctuations in prices that could affect consumer demand. Coleman was a co-sponsor of the bill and worked for its passage through the Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee, on which he serves. The Postal Service is the linchpin of a $900 billion mailing industry that employs up to 11 million Americans in the Postal Service and a range of related industries.
"As one of the key infrastructures in our economy, the Postal Service needs to be equipped with the necessary tools for effectual management, yet, until now, postal reform has been on the backburner for decades," said Coleman. "An effective Postal Service is essential for Minnesota, where a large printing and mailing industry accounts for thousands of jobs and rural areas depend on it for access to a large variety of products. I am pleased that we were finally able to pass this much needed legislation to address the bureaucratic red tape in our postal system and give it more freedom to thrive."
"We want to commend Senator Norm Coleman for his hard work and leadership on the passage of the Postal Reform Bill," said Jim Andersen, president and CEO of IWCO Direct, a leading provider of integrated direct mail solutions based in Chanhassen, Minn. "Since being elected in 2002, the Senator has shown great leadership on this issue which is vitally important to the 200,000 Minnesotans whose jobs depend on direct marketing."
