Public Statements
Coleman Applauds Confirmation Of Paulose As U.S. Attorney For District Of Minnestota
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Dec. 9, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


COLEMAN APPLAUDS CONFIRMATION OF PAULOSE AS U.S. ATTORNEY FOR DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA
Senator Norm Coleman today praised the confirmation of Rachel K. Paulose, a Minnesota native, as United States Attorney for the District of Minnesota. Paulose's nomination, which was previously stalled and in jeopardy of expiring without a vote this year, passed unanimously in the Senate following efforts by Coleman to push her nomination through before adjournment. Paulose, who Coleman recommended for the post earlier this year, will succeed Thomas Heffelfinger, who resigned from the position in February.
"I was thrilled to join my colleagues in confirming Rachel Paulose's nomination today," said Coleman. "It would have been a shame to see such a capable, experienced nominee fail to get a chance for confirmation, and I am very excited we were able to get her nomination through the Senate before adjournment. I am confident Rachel will do an exemplary job as U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota, and I applaud my colleagues for giving her the confirmation she deserved today."
Paulose's nomination was one of several that were in jeopardy this week as the Congressional session moved to a close. To help bring her confirmation up for a vote, Senator Coleman urged Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) and his colleagues on the Senate Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over all U.S. Attorney nominations, to allow Mr. Paulose a full Senate vote before adjournment. Without a confirmation vote this year, Paulose would have needed to be re-nominated by President Bush during the next session of Congress, effectively restarting the nomination process from scratch.
Ms. Paulose obtained her J.D. from Yale Law School after graduating summa cum laude from the University of Minnesota. She has been serving as Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota while awaiting full Senate confirmation.
http://coleman.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressReleases.Detail&PressRelease_id=1176&Month=12&Year=2006
