Public Statements
Senate Passes Tax Relief Bill Containing Coleman Provision For Iron Range Power Plant
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Dec. 9, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


SENATE PASSES TAX RELIEF BILL CONTAINING COLEMAN PROVISION FOR IRON RANGE POWER PLANT
Senator Norm Coleman today joined his Senate colleagues in voting to pass the Tax Relief and Health Care Act which extends a wide-range of tax provisions and includes a Coleman provision that allows Minnesota's Excelsior Energy project to qualify for federal clean coal tax incentives. Specifically, Coleman's provision changes requirements contained in last year's Energy Bill that discriminated against projects like Excelsior that use cleaner, subbituminous coal - blocking their eligibility for new tax incentives. The Excelsior Energy project, is expected to create hundreds of local construction jobs on northern Minnesota's Iron Range and many permanent high-tech jobs when commercial operations commence. The measure passed by a vote of 79 to 9.
"The clean coal tax credits were intended to promote the exploration of clean coal technology as a solution to our nation's energy crisis," said Coleman. "However, a technicality in the bill's language prevented Excelsior Energy from utilizing the clean coal tax credits to get their plant up and running. After nine months of hard work, we were able to find a solution that keeps in place the intention of the clean coal tax credits but does not penalize Excelsior for doing exactly what we want them to do by creating cleaner energy."
The Tax Relief and Health Care Act extends key tax provisions for Minnesota's communities, businesses, families, and teachers and expands domestic energy production by opening up more than 8 million acres of the Outer Continental Shelf along the Gulf of Mexico to oil and gas drilling.
"I am pleased that we have passed this important legislation that supports business innovation key to maintaining our competitive leadership in the world, assists our communities in their revitalization efforts, provides essential colleague tuition relief for families and students, assists our teachers with their classroom expenses, provides important job creation incentives for the disadvantaged, and helps to lessen our dependence on foreign sources of energy," said Coleman.
Provisions of the bill include:
Deductions for Teacher Classroom Expenses: Extends through 2007 a $250 deduction for teachers' out-of-pocket school related expenses.
New Market Tax Credits: Extends through 2008 a tax credit for taxpayers who invest in businesses located in low-income neighborhoods.
Deductions for Higher Education Expenses: Extends through 2007 a deduction of up to $4,000 for higher education expenses.
Research and Development Tax Credit: Extends through 2007 the tax credit for research and development.
Work Opportunity and Welfare-to-Work Tax Credit: Extends through 2007 a credit for employers who hire individuals facing barriers to employment and those who have been on public assistance.
Energy Tax Credits: Extends Renewable Electricity Production Credits for wind, hydropower, biomass and geothermal facilities until 2008. It also adds $400 million for Clean Renewable Energy Bonds and extends until 2008 deductions for energy efficient commercial buildings.
Health Care Provisions: Eliminates 5 percent reduction in payments to physicians and offers a 1.5 percent increase in doctors who submit data on quality-of-care measures. Extends several expiring provisions to offer doctors in rural areas stable reimbursement rates and codifies state taxes on Medicaid providers at 5.5 percent from January 1, 2008 through fiscal year 2011.
Trade Provisions: Various provisions boosting trade with developing countries.
Outer Continental Shelf: This bill also makes a small portion of the Gulf's Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) available for production, which will put more supply of natural gas and oil on the market in the short term including 1.26 billion barrels of oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas - lowering prices.
http://coleman.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressReleases.Detail&PressRelease_id=1177&Month=12&Year=2006
