Public Statements
Coleman Urges CFTC To Consider Revoking AWB USA Participation Rights
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Dec. 8, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


COLEMAN URGES CFTC TO CONSIDER REVOKING AWB USA PARTICIPATION RIGHTS
Continuing his efforts to determine whether U.S wheat farmers were hurt by the misconduct of the Australian Wheat Board (AWB), Senator Norm Coleman today sent a letter to Reuben Jeffrey, Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), urging him to examine whether the Commission's registration of AWB and its U.S. affiliate, AWB USA, Ltd should be revoked or suspended in light of the findings of the Cole Report. Coleman cited the Commodity Exchange Act statue (7 USC 12a), which authorizes the CFTC to revoke the registration of a participant that is found to have violated certain U.S. laws. According to the recently-released report of the Cole Commission, an official Australian government inquiry into allegations of wrong doing by Australian entities involved in the Oil-for-Food program, AWB took advantage of the U.N.'s Oil-for-Food program by paying over $224 million in kickbacks to Saddam Hussein through a Jordanian trucking firm between 1999-2003.
"The Cole Commission conducted an exhaustive investigation into AWB and the evidence suggests that AWB employees in the U.S. may have been involved in criminal activity in their role in AWB's misconduct. In the face of evidence of egregious misconduct, the CFTC should use its authority to revoke or suspend AWB USA's right to participate in our commodity futures and option markets, if it is found to have violated U.S. law," said Coleman. "To allow AWB USA to continue to participate freely in our markets without determining whether they were in violation of U.S. laws is inexcusable, and I am strongly urging Chairman Jeffrey to examine the appropriateness of revoking or suspending AWB USA's registration with the Commission."
Recently, Coleman introduced legislation to investigate whether U.S. wheat farmers may have been harmed by AWB's corrupt trade practices. Specifically, the bill directs the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to investigate whether U.S. wheat farmers have suffered economic damage due to the actions of the AWB. If economic damage is found, the legislation directs USTR to go through its trade enforcement procedures to compensate U.S. wheat farmers, either through negotiated settlement or by imposing duties on certain Australian goods. As Chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee Investigation (PSI), Senator Coleman led a three-year investigation into the U.N. Oil-for-Food Program. Under Senator Coleman's leadership, the Subcommittee held numerous hearings and issued several detailed reports that exposed significant corruption associated with the U.N. Oil-for-Food Program.
http://coleman.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressReleases.Detail&PressRelease_id=1173&Month=12&Year=2006
