Public Statements
Executive Session
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Dec. 7, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


EXECUTIVE SESSION -- (Senate - December 07, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, it has been almost 6 years since I was sworn in as Minnesota's 33rd U.S. Senator with my friend and colleague Paul Wellstone at my side. I began my term hopeful and optimistic. The Senate was evenly divided, with 50 Democrats and 50 Republicans, and President-elect George W. Bush was promising to change the tone in Washington with a new era of bipartisan cooperation.
Our country enjoyed peace and relative prosperity. Outgoing President Bill Clinton, a Republican-controlled Congress, and over 6 years of economic expansion had combined to create the first annual surpluses in the Federal Government's on-budget account in 39 years, and they were projected by OMB to continue for at least the next decade.
The Social Security trust fund's annual surpluses were going to be saved in a lockbox for the upcoming retirements of a large baby boom generation. There was even discussion of paying down the national debt to further strengthen our financial position. Yet we still would be able to increase funding for such essential needs as public education, affordable health care, seniors' drug coverage, and infrastructure improvements.
Just 6 years later, our country's condition has changed drastically, and mostly for the worse. We are mired in a disastrous war in Iraq despite the heroic efforts and sacrifices by our Armed Forces. The fiscal integrity of the Federal budget has been destroyed, with record-high annual deficits continuing, despite budget gimmickry and a modest economic recovery. The Federal tax base has been decimated by huge tax giveaways to the rich and superrich that will burden our children and grandchildren. The Social Security trust fund's surpluses have been spent every year on what the nonpartisan Concord Coalition has called ``the most reckless fiscal policy'' in our Nation's history.
