Public Statements
Agriculture Disaster Relief
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 29, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


AGRICULTURE DISASTER RELIEF -- (Senate - September 29, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I thank my distinguished colleague from North Dakota, Mr. Conrad, who championed this cause of disaster relief for not only his farmers in North Dakota but across the affected areas, which certainly includes my State of Minnesota.
As others noted, this is a bipartisan effort. I see my friend and colleague, Senator Coleman from Minnesota, is here also. We stand together to make this a bipartisan effort on behalf of the farmers throughout our State who have been devastated by these natural disasters over the last few years and particularly the last 2 years to which this bill applies.
I regret that this has been passed by the Senate before. I commend this body for doing so, again, on a very strong bipartisan basis. Unfortunately, the administration has not been willing to allow this funding to go forward or even some part of it. This is long overdue.
It is unfortunate that we are now at the 11th hour, the 59th minute of this session in this year, and we haven't even addressed the disaster relief necessary for the last calendar year. This legislation would deal with that and also this year's relief.
This disaster has afflicted our State, and some of our counties have lost three-fourths of our crops. In fact, almost half the counties in Minnesota have already been declared disaster areas.
The crisis is real. The suffering is acute. As others said, we have a magnitude of disaster in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, but a disaster is a disaster. A complete disaster is as devastating to a family in northwestern Minnesota as it is to a family in New Orleans.
I urge my colleagues, once again, to support this measure, and I plead with the House and the administration to work out these differences so that these farmers and their farms can be saved, and their families can be saved. It is only simple justice and humanity.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
