Public Statements
Secure Fence Act of 2006 - Resumed
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 28, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


SECURE FENCE ACT OF 2006--Resumed -- (Senate - September 28, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, I want to say that I thank the Senator for his courtesy and for warning me about his intention here tonight. I salute him for his leadership on this legislation, which I support, so I am in a bit of an awkward situation, as he has recognized. But I guess I would ask the chairman, if my information is correct, there are actually 14 States that would lose funding under the revised formula.
As the chairman said the other day, there is a hold-harmless clause that is in effect, as I understand, for 3 years, and this is a 5-year reauthorization, so at that point these other States would lose funding.
Does the chairman find it surprising that Senators from those States are doing what I think I would do if I were in that situation? I am grateful the formula adds money for Minnesota, but I find it unsurprising that they are doing what any of us I believe would do, which is to protect our States.
My second question to the chairman is: Given that this is a $12.2 billion reauthorization over 5 years, what would it cost in additional authorization to give these States over the next 5 years the same amount of money as they receive presently?
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for his reluctant objection, although it still counts as an objection.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Has the Senator from Minnesota objected?
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I am reserving the right to object. I directed two questions to the chairman, if I may, Mr. President.
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I will go ahead and answer the questions, then, and hope this changes your mind on being the one willing to make the objection.
Would I protect my State if my State were losing money? I think we are elected to the Senate by the people in our States, but our obligation is to the people of the United States. And were my State grossly overpaid on an average, and I was still going to be grossly overpaid afterwards, and my State couldn't use the money each year that it received, I think I would have a terrible time trying to object to this bill. I hope we do not play that kind of numbers game, we don't get that parochial on bills around here.
Another bill I have been working on is the Older Americans Act, and it has a formula in it. Again, there are States that lose under that bill. But there are people who have been willing to work out a formula like we did on this. We must have run about 300 different programs trying to come up with something as equitable as possible. We even put in the 3 years hold harmless for people who were being grossly overpaid.
I think we have come up with as reasonable a bill as we possibly can. We need to get it passed, and we need to get it passed by September 30 so the penalties don't kick into effect for those States that have a big penalty coming up and that are desperately in need of making sure they get enough money to take care of the cases they presently have.
Mr. COBURN. Will the chairman yield for a question?
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I haven't had my question answered.
Mr. ENZI. I have one more answer that I need to do.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Wyoming has the floor. His unanimous consent request is pending.
Is there objection?
Mr. ENZI. I will yield for some other questions as soon as I finish answering this question.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. ENZI. There aren't 14 States that would lose money unless the new bill doesn't pass. There are only five States that will lose money under the new bill, the bill we are trying to get passed by unanimous consent--the bill that we are at least trying to be able to bring up by unanimous consent. We tried a number of different ways. There are just five States that are involved in losing money. Of those five, three have said we have to be fair. Two have said we don't care whether we are fair or not.
Mr. DAYTON. If I may direct a question again to the chairman, how much would it cost in addition to the $12.2 billion for this 5-year authorization? What additional authorization would it cost to give those five States the same level of funding over the next 5 years that they would receive as of today?
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I don't have that number. Like I say, we ran about 300 different iterations of different formulas. I will get the Senator that number.
But there is 3 years hold harmless in this. You are talking about 5 years hold harmless. Hold harmless means that the dollars don't follow the person, that the State gets the money even if they have run out of people with HIV/AIDS, and if there are decreasing numbers of them they should not continue to get those dollars. What you are asking is we continue to give those dollars even if we run out of people. All we are trying to do with this bill is make sure the dollars follow the person. You get more people, you get more money. You get less people, you get less money. It is take care of the people.
It is not an economic development bill.
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I appreciate the answers of the chairman. I respect him very highly for what he has done. I must, however, object on behalf of my colleagues whom I believe are doing properly what they must and should do to protect their own States. So I do object.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
