Public Statements
Governor Mark Dayton Establishes Governor's Council on Law Enforcement and Community Relations
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Oct. 12, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today issued Executive Order 16-09, establishing the Governor's Council on Law Enforcement and Community Relations. The council will be co-chaired by Fourth District Judge Pamela G. Alexander and Grand Rapids Police Chief Scott Johnson, and is charged with developing recommendations to build trust and cooperation between law enforcement agencies and the communities they serve, thereby creating a safer and more harmonious Minnesota.

"It is essential that Minnesota's law enforcement and criminal justice systems work for all Minnesotans, including both our law enforcement officers and the communities they bravely serve," said Governor Mark Dayton. "This Council is an important first step to ensuring greater trust, safety, and justice for all Minnesotans. I look forward to receiving the Council's recommendations."

The Council will be charged with making independent policy recommendations to improve the relationship between law enforcement agencies and the communities they serve, support the adoption of best practices in community and law enforcement relations, and expand access to law enforcement training programs. The council's preliminary recommendations are due to Governor Dayton and the Minnesota Legislature by February 15, 2017, with their final report due by June 30, 2017.

"In order to build a stronger Minnesota, the police should reflect and be responsive to the cultural, racial, and gender diversity of the communities they serve," said Fourth District Judge Pamela G. Alexander, Council Co-Chair. "This will require engagement with the community to come up with policies and procedures that embrace the uniqueness of each community and engage in rigorous training to build trust. Training should include implicit bias, procedural justice, relationship based policing, community interaction, crisis intervention, and more. Only through mutual trust, respect, and an open mind can we create a harmonious Minnesota."

Source:
