Public Statements
Dayton, Leaders in Biofuels, Agriculture Discuss How to Put More Renewable Fuel Into American Gas Tanks
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 15, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton, Leaders in Biofuels, Agriculture Discuss How to Put More Renewable Fuel Into American Gas Tanks
Dayton bill would increase availability of renewable fuel pumps at retail, federal fleet service stations
Joined by national and state leaders in alternative energy and agriculture, U.S. Senator Mark Dayton today hosted a roundtable discussion on ways to expand the use of renewable fuels. Larry Schaefer, Vice President of the Renewable Fuels Association; Tim Gerlach, Outdoor Air Director for the American Lung Association of Minnesota; and Dennis Sjodin, Vice President of the Minnesota Farmers Union were among those at the meeting, held at the University of Minnesota's Initiative for Renewable Energy and the Environment (IREE). Participants discussed overcoming barriers to the availability of alternative fuels and their priorities for federal legislation, including a bill by Dayton that would stop oil companies from limiting the installation of renewable fuel pumps at franchise gas stations.
"In the world of renewable energy, infrastructure is half the battle," said Dayton. "Americans all over the country should have access to renewable fuels like E85, and my bill would ensure that every gas station owner that wants to sell it has the ability to do so."
Service station owners in Minnesota have told Dayton that their oil suppliers prohibit the installation of renewable fuel pumps under canopies bearing the oil company brand name and logo. Thus, station owners who want to offer alternative fuels like E85 and biodiesel must install a new pump, often at costs of up to $75,000. Dayton's Renewable Fuels Promotion Act would guarantee that renewable fuels can be sold anywhere in the station.
The bill also requires federal agencies to install a renewable fuels pump at every federal fueling station. Currently, all but three of the 21 federal agencies are in violation of a 1999 Executive Order that called for a 20 percent reduction in the federal fleet's consumption of petroleum fuels by FY2005.
"The reason that the federal government doesn't use more alternative fuel is because it isn't available at federal fueling stations혰you can't use the fuel if you don't have the pumps," said Dayton. "My bill would ensure the tremendous purchasing power of the federal government takes us in the right direction: toward a stronger biofuels industry and away from reliance on foreign oil."
Though the U.S. government혰the world's single largest consumer of petroleum fuel혰has purchased many "flex-fuel" vehicles, most still operate on gasoline and petroleum diesel. In 2004, the federal government bought just 3 million gallons of biofuels혰 less than one percent of the petroleum fuel it consumed in total.
Dayton vowed to continue fighting for the increased use of renewable fuels, and promised to bring the ideas presented at today's roundtable back to his colleagues in the Senate.
"Use of renewable E85 and biodiesel reduces both tailpipe and greenhouse gas emissions," stated Tim Gerlach of the American Lung Association of Minnesota. "We thank Senator Dayton for leading the charge for wider access to these fuels. When educated on the benefits of renewable fuels and given the opportunity to use them, consumers most often make the Clean Air Choice."
Participants in today's roundtable discussion include:
Larry Schaefer, Vice President, Renewable Fuels Association Tim Gerlach, Outdoor Air Director, American Lung Association of Minnesota Dennis Sjodin, Vice President, Minnesota Farmers Union Todd Reubold, Assistant Director, Initiative for Renewable Energy and the Environment Roger Moore, Treasurer, Minnesota Corn Growers Association Mike Youngerberg, Director of Field Services, Minnesota Soybean Growers Association Bill Zurn, Soybean farmer, Member of Minnesota Soybean Growers Association
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=258701&&
