Public Statements
Dry Eye Awareness Month
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 20, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


DRY EYE AWARENESS MONTH -- (Senate - June 20, 2006)
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, today I rise to call attention to an important but often overlooked chronic illness: dry eyes. The Sjo 4gren's Syndrome Foundation and National Women's Health Resource Center have declared July Dry Eye Awareness Month.
Every year, chronic dry eye syndrome affects nearly 10 million Americans of all ages; many sufferers will go undiagnosed. Without tears, good vision is impossible. Dry eye syndrome can cause devastating symptoms, including constant pain, an inability to focus, and, in severe cases, serious visual impairment. It can significantly affect a person's quality of life, increasing the risk of problems with reading, professional work, computer use, and night driving.
Americans suffering with dry eye syndrome either do not produce enough tears, or have poor quality tears and/or excessive tear evaporation. Either problem causes their eyes to sting and burn, feel scratchy, become irritated, or excessively tear. Most people with dry eye find the condition to be an uncomfortable nuisance, with many characteristics of a ``chronic pain'' type of syndrome.
One study showed that dry eye patients experienced an average of 184 days of reduced productivity in a year. Although dry eye syndrome cannot be cured, there are a variety of available treatments. However many people with dry eye continue to suffer needlessly because they are unaware of their options. Both dry eye and Sjo 4gren's seriously endanger women's health.
Sjo 4gren's syndrome is a painful and debilitating autoimmune disease which causes the immune system to attack its own lubricating glands, such as tear and salivary glands. Sjo 4gren's is one of the most prevalent autoimmune disorders, and although it affects people of all ages, 9 out of 10 patients are women, and the average age of onset is late forties. The hallmark symptoms are dry eyes and dry mouth, but Sjo 4gren's may also cause dryness of other organs, affecting the kidneys, GI tract, blood vessels, lungs, liver, pancreas, and the central nervous system. Patients with Sjo 4gren's syndrome are also 40 times more likely to develop lymphoma.
Marking July as Dry Eye Awareness Month will bring more attention to this widespread and potentially debilitating condition. I thank the Minnesota members of the Sjo 4gren's Syndrome Foundation and the National Women's Health Resource Center for bringing this issue to my attention and thank them for their efforts to educate the public about this serious health concern.
http://thomas.loc.gov
