Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 25, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - May 25, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
By Mr. DAYTON (for himself and Mr. Lott):
S. 3239. A bill to require full disclosure of insurance coverage and noncoverage by insurance companies and provide for Federal Trade Commission enforcement; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, this legislation I am proud to cosponsor, along with my distinguished colleague from Mississippi, is called the Uniform Insurance Noncoverage Disclosure Act. I call it ``honesty is the best insurance policy act.'' It says very simply that all insurance policies--medical, homeowners, whatever they are--must state clearly on the cover page what the policy does not cover.
My colleague from Mississippi can speak eloquently and powerfully about his experiences in his State post-Katrina, but even before that disaster occurred, I have seen similar situations in Minnesota of good people whose lives were devastated by illnesses or natural disasters and then were further devastated by discovering that their losses or expenses were not covered by their insurance policies. For years, they had faithfully paid their premiums believing they had comprehensive coverage, only to find out too late that was untrue.
Insurance companies write the policies, they interpret the policies, they decide what they will and will not cover, and then they handle the appeals and make the final decisions. If they deny the claims, they pocket those dollars in profits. If they honor the claims, they pay them out in losses. Talk about a stacked deck in their favor and against the consumer.
I have had aggrieved constituents show me their homeowners policies. I am an intelligent, well-educated man, but it is impossible to decipher them. They contain cross-references to paragraph numbers in other policies that are not part of the agreement. They cannot be understood, and they are not meant to be understood.
One Minnesota homeowner lost almost everything to a flood. Too late he discovered that his blanket homeowners insurance did not cover losses from a flood. He was protected, according to the policy, if an airplane crashed into his house or if civil insurrection--meaning a revolution--caused damage to his home, but not flooding. What are the chances of those different events possibly occurring?
Another Minnesota family whose father had worked for a company for over 20 years learned that their infant son had been born deaf and needed a Cochlear implant. Two of the insurance companies that carried those policies for the company covered that operation; the other did not, claiming that it was experimental. The family made the unwitting mistake of selecting the wrong policy. No one told them that policy would not pay for Cochlear implant surgery in its comprehensive family coverage, and they, obviously, did not know or could not have known that their unborn son would need this surgery some several years later.
Fortunately, this story has a happy ending. The president of the company, Honeywell, Inc., learning of this injustice, overrode the policy and decreed that Honeywell, the company, would pay for that missing coverage, and that child is now listening to human voices he never would have had the opportunity to otherwise.
But not everyone is in that situation. Not everyone is that fortunate.
So this legislation, again, no costs to it, no bureaucracy, nothing. It simply says that the policy must state clearly, in plain English, understandable on the cover page, what it will not cover. If it is comprehensive, if it is complete, then nothing needs to be said. If it is not, if they experience situations that will not be covered, then it needs to tell the consumer up front on that front page what they will be.
Mr. President, I yield to my distinguished colleague from Mississippi.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
