Public Statements
Tax Increase Prevention And Reconciliation Act of 2005--Conference Report
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 11, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


TAX INCREASE PREVENTION AND RECONCILIATION ACT OF 2005--CONFERENCE REPORT -- (Senate - May 11, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, this bill should be a billboard for the corruption of the public interest in Washington. It is a disgrace, it is an abomination, and it should be rejected by the Senate.
Last year, when this body passed a version of this legislation, I voted for it, principally because it included my amendment requiring corporate executives to pay their fair share of taxes when they use their company planes for their personal use. That is a matter of simple tax fairness. When all other Americans take vacations, they pay for their air travel on commercial airlines with their after-tax income. Yet when some of this country's wealthiest people, corporate executives, take vacations on their company planes, they fly for free and they pay almost no taxes on the actual value of that special employment benefit. My amendment would have raised $44 million in Federal revenues during the next 10 years, all of it coming from some of the very richest Americans, all of it coming from the end of their tax avoidance scheme.
What happened to my amendment, which was adopted by the full Senate on a unanimous voice vote? It was stripped from this conference report by the House-Senate conference committee which is controlled by the Republican majority in both bodies. It was done behind closed doors with no explanation and, thus, once again the greedy, a few rich and powerful Americans, have prevailed over the best interests of everyone else.
No wonder so many working Americans have lost their faith and trust in this Congress and in this President. Under their control, the rich get richer and everyone else gets poorer. And the national interest is betrayed behind the closed doors of a conference committee.
Stripping out my amendment is unfortunately only the beginning of the terrible abuses in this conference report. According to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, someone in this country who earns between $20,000 and $30,000 a year will receive an average of $9 in tax cuts from this bill. Someone earning $40,000 to $50,000 a year will get an average $46 tax reduction. But the very wealthiest Americans with incomes over $1 million a year will get an average tax cut of almost $42,000 every year.
Let us reverse those numbers since some of my colleagues are trying to portray our failure to pass this as a tax increase. Conversely, if that were to be the case, someone who makes between $20,000 and $30,000 a year would receive by their words an average of $9 a year tax increase. Someone earning between $40,000 and $50,000 a year would get on average a $46 tax increase. But the very wealthiest Americans, those with incomes of over $1 million a year, would get an average tax increase of about $42,000 every year. That is what progressive taxes are about.
Over half of this $70 billion which they want to reduce in Federal revenues, almost $40 billion of that will go to the richest 4 percent of American taxpayers. By doing so, the rest of this country will go deeper and deeper into public debt. Last year's combined Federal budget deficit was $318 billion. All Federal revenue, including the surplus in the Social Security trust fund thus amounted to only 87 percent of all Federal expenditures.
If you set aside the Social Security surplus, put it in a lockbox that so many people, including myself and the President, campaigned on in the year 2000, that surplus which this administration is squandering every year entirely on current consumption, then last year's so-called on-budget deficit for the Federal Government was $483 billion. That meant all Federal revenue set aside totaled only three-fourths of Federal expenditures.
That occurred during an expanding economy. It will continue this year, according to the President's own projections, during an expanding economy.
According again to the President's own budget forecast, this revenue shortfall of one-fourth of total expenditures will continue over each of the next 5 years. This even assumes the continuation of a relatively good economy.
By contrast, in the fiscal year 2000, which is the last fiscal year of the Clinton administration, non-Social Security revenues totaled 106 percent of on-budget expenditures.
In other words, we were in a budget surplus--there was a budget surplus projected every year for the next 10 years--and now those revenues total only three-fourths of expenditures, which means that, starting in 2001, President Bush and his supporters in Congress have destroyed the fiscal integrity of the Federal Government by recklessly cutting taxes, which primarily benefits the rich and powerful, while increasing Federal spending in every cycle one of those years, which caused the bipartisan or nonpartisan Concord Coalition, headed by the former Secretary of Commerce under President Richard Nixon, to call this administration the ``most reckless'' administration in the history of this country in its fiscal policy.
This tax bill will further feed that greed of the richest and most powerful Americans and it will weaken our country. Any sensible American understands that if their income is $30,000 a year and they are spending $40,000 a year, that is an unsustainable imbalance. Borrowing the difference only postpones the day of reckoning and makes that future reckoning more painful and difficult.
Any farmer or small business person knows if their annual income is $150,000 and their annual expenditures are $200,000, they too will go deeper into debt every year and eventually face bankruptcy. That basic law of economics also applies to governments and nations. It may take longer to exhaust the wealth of a country with our resources, but that will eventually happen unless we change our course.
This tax bill provides more tax favors to those who need them the least while increasing our future deficits and putting additional financial burdens on our children and grandchildren who will ultimately face those days of reckoning for this fiscal hedonism.
What is most disgusting about this spectacle is that the people in Washington who are responsible for it, the people in the Bush administration and in the majority of this Congress, know what they are doing. They know--or at least they should know--the future damage they are inflicting on this country. They just know that they can get away with it. They know when those days of reckoning arrive, when this great and strong nation has exhausted its ability to borrow from the rest of the world, when it has been reduced to being the largest debtor nation in the history of the world, it will be other people's nightmare--certainly another President's. And they can hope to avoid that future blame by now avoiding being responsible.
They have had plenty of help. These tax handouts don't happen by accident. They are heavily lobbied for by the people who benefit from them. They are the same people who benefitted most from the 2001 tax cuts and the 2002 tax cuts and the 2003 tax cuts. But more is never enough. Greed cannot be satisfied by feeding it more. That greed will eventually destroy this country, if it continues.
There used to be an ethic in this Nation that when you made more money, you paid more taxes. Now the obsession of individuals and of corporations is to make more money but pay less taxes, or pay no taxes, or even get tax rebates. The annual report of a major corporation recently noted proudly that it had paid no U.S. taxes in three of its previous five years although it had been profitable during all five of those years. The chief executive officer of that corporation then is now the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury. He is advocating lower taxes, and even eliminating taxes on unearned income, corporate dividends, and capital gains. He was quoted as saying:
It was as if a light switch has been thrown on. Rarely has a piece of public policy been so effective, with the effects so evident and immediate.
Reduce the rate on unearned income, dividends, and capital gains.
There is a noted economist, not a partisan on the other side, but the chief economist of Lehman Brothers Investment Bank, who said in contrast you might credit the cuts with providing a little bit of a jump-start, but they believe the main reason the economy has done so well has more to do with the corporate sector starting to spend some of their record profits.
Former Secretary of the Treasury Robert Rubin, under President Clinton, who presided over this period of economic expansion in the 1990s when they balanced the Federal budget, said:
We had very good markets in the 90's, before all of these tax cuts went into effect.
My colleagues on the other side are claiming that those tax giveaways back in 2003 are responsible for the modest economic expansion that benefitted some Americans while leaving many other Americans worse off than they were before. Most of the tax cuts that they are touting were actually passed and took effect in 2001, and they certainly were not bragging about continuing recession in 2001, 2002, and most of 2003.
Since then, our country's economy has improved, thank goodness, and they want us to believe that this cycle is as sure as the sun is setting and would not have occurred without their tax cuts for the rich and for the super-rich. And they claim the economic growth in this country will not continue if we don't extend those tax cuts, which are not even scheduled to expire until the end of 2008, through 2009 and 2010.
In fact, their priority is such that they will set aside such measures as tax credits for research and development, which this country does need, a real and far more effective fix to the alternative minimum tax, which is part of the Senate bill which I voted in favor of. Those have to be set aside, postponed, delayed, or take no effect at all so they can extend the lower rate on dividends and capital gains the years 2009 and 2010.
Talk about the wrong priorities. Talk about destroying ethics in this country, that people who make more money, who are more privileged, more fortunate than anybody else on this planet, virtually in the history of the world, should not have to pay their fair share of taxes to keep this country strong and provide sufficient revenues to the Federal Government, to balance our budget, to be responsible, to pay our own way, which we are certainly capable of doing, and leave this country in a sound financial state to those in this country now and to those who will follow in 10 or 15 years.
I hope the people who are alive then and facing those consequences will look back and review the transcripts of this debate today. I hope they will ask themselves, Why is it that people today in responsible positions cut taxes for the very wealthiest, most privileged, and politically powerful people in this country and added $70 billion to the debt we inherited, that we have to pay in addition to the hundreds of billions of dollars more they are adding every year to that deficit and to the national debt? They are going to say it was wrong; they are going to say it was misguided; and they are going to wonder how it could be that responsible people could have failed to foresee the consequence of this selfishness and cater to the greed of those out there who want these cuts and won't be sated until they get more and more and more.
If they are working hard, as most Americans do today, they are going to ask themselves, Why is it that I struggle to pay my fair share of taxes, most of which are withheld and never in my pocket to begin with? Why am I paying higher tax rates from my earned income, from the sweat of my brow hour after hour, than the very wealthiest people in the country? People in many cases don't even earn that much. Who are the beneficiaries--as I have been, and as others of my family have been in my previous generations of success--who are not even willing to pay a tax rate similar to those who earn their income by their daily toil? It is fundamentally wrong. It is fundamentally wrong, what is happening in this country. It is making the rich richer, making average Americans poorer and more tax averse. The cumulative result is that revenues are three-fourths of expenditures, unsustainable, and a fiscally dangerous proposition from which we will suffer the consequences, the pain, for years to come.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
