Public Statements
Letter to Majority Leader Asks for Senate to Take Up Bill that Passed the House Nearly a Year Ago
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 3, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Letter to Majority Leader Asks for Senate to Take Up Bill that Passed the House Nearly a Year Ago
Dear Dr. Frist:
Nearly a year ago, the House of Representatives approved important legislation to end the restrictions that have kept stem cell research from fulfilling its potential to save lives and alleviate suffering. We understand that you are planning a week of Senate debate on legislation related to health. We urge you to bring the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005 (H.R. 810) to the Senate floor for consideration during this "Health Week".
Stem cell research has vast potential for curing diseases and saving lives. We know you recognize the enormous potential of this research for discovering new cures and therapies for diseases such as diabetes, Parkinson's disease and spinal cord injuries, and we commend the strong support you have expressed for approval of the House-passed bill. By allowing H.R. 810 to be brought to a vote, you can bring hope and help to millions of American patients and families suffering from these and other serious illnesses.
The House passed H.R. 810 in May 2005 - yet the Senate has failed to take action for nearly a year. Further delay will mean more lost opportunities for new cures and new treatments. The Senate should mark the anniversary of the House vote with action, not more inaction. We therefore urge you to bring H.R. 810 to the Senate floor for debate and a vote during "Health Week". Millions of patients and their families across the nation cannot afford to wait any longer for enactment of this urgently needed legislation.
Sincerely,
Harry Reid
Tom Harkin
Dianne Feinstein
Ted Kennedy
Daniel Akaka
Max Baucus
Evan Bayh
Joe Biden
Jeff Bingaman
Barbara Boxer
Maria Cantwell
Tom Carper
Hillary Rodham Clinton
Mark Dayton
Christopher Dodd
Byron Dorgan
Dick Durbin
Russell Feingold
Daniel Inouye
Jim Jeffords
Tim Johnson
John Kerry
Herb Kohl
Mary Landrieu
Frank Lautenberg
Patrick Leahy
Carl Levin
Joe Lieberman
Blanche Lincoln
Robert Menendez
Barbara Mikulski
Patty Murray
Bill Nelson
Barack Obama
Jack Reed
Ken Salazar
Paul Sarbanes
Charles Schumer
Debbie Stabenow
Ron Wyden
http://feingold.senate.gov/~feingold/releases/06/05/20060504.html
