Public Statements
Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2007
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 14, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2007 -- (Senate - March 14, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I thank my distinguished colleague and friend, the distinguished Senator from Georgia, for his leadership on this amendment. It has been a privilege to work with him during the last couple of years. I appreciate his deep commitment to this program. It means a great deal because it demonstrates very clearly to our colleagues that this is a bipartisan commitment, as demonstrated by the cosponsors for our amendment.
I ask unanimous consent to add Senators HARKIN, ROCKEFELLER, NELSON of Florida, BIDEN, and DURBIN as cosponsors of this amendment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I am astonished that there is any disagreement about the need for increased funding for the Byrne grants. This is one of the critical programs we fund through the Congress. I am amazed, as my colleague from Georgia said, that last year the amendment we passed together, which the Senate passed unanimously, was then basically gutted entirely in the conference committee at the insistence of the House and the administration. And, in fact, the funding for the Byrne grant program for this year is cut by one-fourth from what it was the previous year.
I have heard suggestions from people that this money is not well spent or that it is not needed in particular States. To them, I say, please, please, send your money back. Send it to Minnesota, send it to Georgia. I can assure Members the money in Minnesota is extremely well used. It is absolutely necessary.
Let me quote, as evidence of that, Mr. Robert Bushman, president of the Minnesota Police and Peace Officers:
Without the support of the Byrne Justice Assistance Program funding, these drug task forces face reductions that will decrease their abilities and effectiveness. Should this occur, Minnesota's ability to fight the war on drugs would undoubtedly be diminished, with potentially dangerous consequences.
We talk of the need to protect this country from terrorists. I support that as strongly as anyone. We have terrorists operating on the streets of Minnesota and I suspect through this country every day. They are drug-dealing terrorists.
The methamphetamine epidemic which is plaguing my State--small communities, large cities, rural, urban, everywhere, drugs that I am told are coming in from Mexico in increased numbers, concentrations, and potency--is destroying the lives of children as young as 10 years old and senior citizens who are in their eighties. It is an equal opportunity destroyer.
These drug-dealing terrorists are operating with impunity because our local law enforcement officers do not have the resources, do not have the funds, do not have the numbers, do not have all the resources necessary to combat it and defeat it. That is shameful. This is a matter of priorities.
Again, I thank the Senator from Georgia. I commend the distinguished chairman of the Senate Committee on the Budget and the ranking member for their support. I hope we can have this pass as a voice vote, one that will demonstrate clearly to the House overwhelming support. I ask they do their utmost to preserve our position in conference so we can get this funding back up from its devastating cut last year to where it needs to be.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
