Public Statements
Governor Mark Dayton Issues Executive Order to Reverse Pollinator Decline and Restore Pollinator Health in Minnesota
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Mark Dayton today issued Executive Order 16-07, requiring the state to take specific actions to reverse the decline of bees and other pollinator populations that play a crucial role in agriculture and food production. Pollinator populations, critical to our state's $90 billion agricultural sector, have been in decline in Minnesota over the past decade.

"Bees and other pollinators play a critical role in supporting both our environment, and our economy," said Governor Mark Dayton. "This order directs state government to take immediate action to alleviate the known risks that pollinators face. It also will create a new taskforce to study the issues impacting pollinators and recommend long-term solutions."

The Governor's order follows the completion of a Special Registration Review of Neonicotinoid Pesticides conducted by the Minnesota Department of Agriculture that outlines action steps for minimizing the impact of pesticide use in the state.

Executive Order 16-07 requires the Department of Agriculture to immediately initiate action steps, which include requiring verification that the application of neonicotinoid pesticides is made due to an imminent threat of significant crop loss, reviewing pesticide product labels and implementing appropriate Minnesota-specific restrictions on their use, increasing enforcement of label requirements for pesticides that are acutely toxic to pollinators, and to continue developing and promoting best management practices designed to protect and enhance pollinator health in Minnesota.

"Pollinators are vital to agriculture and agriculture is a vital to the state of Minnesota," said Agriculture Commissioner Dave Frederickson. "The Governor's action today underscores how important it is for the state to be a leader in the response to protect our pollinator population."

The Governor's order further requires the State Department of Administration to lead by example and take immediate steps to support pollinator health on state property.

"The Governor's actions today will mean that products and plants purchased by the state for use on public property reflect environmentally friendly business practices," said Administration Commissioner Matt Massman. "Our initial steps to protect pollinator health will provide the tools for state employees to lead the way in ensuring our workplaces and practices are pollinator-friendly and protective of their vital role in Minnesota's environment and economy."

Source:
