Public Statements
MSNBC Countdown - Transcript
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 23, 2006
Location: Unknown


MSNBC Countdown - Transcript
Monday, January 23, 2006
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
OLBERMANN: Since they were awarded the contract for rebuilding much of Iraq, they have been accused of defrauding the American taxpayer, overcharging the government for food and fuel, and wasting vast amounts of money.
Our fourth story on the COUNTDOWN, the latest allegation against Halliburton is actually worse.
A memo from July 2005, originally sent in May of last year, from William Granger (ph), who worked for the Halliburton subsidiary in charge of water quality, reads in part, quote, "We have exposed a base camp population, military and civilian, to a water source that was not treated. The level of contamination was roughly two times the normal contamination of untreated water from the Euphrates River."
Mr. Granger says the company would not tell him, or would not tell the military, about the problem in Iraq, and told him to keep quiet about it.
Another former Halliburton employee, Ken May (ph), supports Mr. Granger‘s claim, that the company ignored the contamination, and both Mr. May and Mr. Granger say they became ill because of the bad water. Both of them offered testimony on the Hill today at a hearing into the allegations conducted by the Senate Democratic Policy Committee.
Joining me now, one of the senators who participated in that hearing today, Senator Mark Dayton of Minnesota.
Thank you for your time tonight, sir.
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D), MINNESOTA: Glad to, Keith.
OLBERMANN: Does this strike you, from what you know of it here, and what you heard today, as bureaucratic oversight, or is there a suggestion that Halliburton deliberately ignored the contamination?
DAYTON: I think, first, it was at least gross negligence that Halliburton did not chlorinate the water, they say, for probably a year before it was detected by these two whistleblowers who appeared before the policy committee today.
And then it was a blatant coverup, attempt to hide it and even conceal it from the military that caused these two whistleblowers to resign from the company about April of 2005, when they couldn‘t get the higher-ups to do anything and wouldn‘t permit them to notify the military that this water was highly contaminated.
OLBERMANN: After today, do we know the extent to which this was a problem, what kind of results and—occurred, and to whom they occurred?
DAYTON: What we know from the memo that you just described is that it went on for about a year. This is at a major base camp, Ramadi, just west of Fallujah. Tens of thousands of American troops were exposed unknowingly to this highly contaminated water that was coming from less than a mile downstream from raw sewage being dumped into the Euphrates.
Microorganisms, larvae detected. People were having gastrointestinal problems, including these two whistleblowers, and no one was told about it. And even after Halliburton found out about it, the only thing they cared about was covering it up and concealing it, rather than notifying even their own employees, much less the military.
OLBERMANN: This is the seventh time that there‘s been a hearing by the Senate Democratic Policy Committee on possible contract abuses in Iraq. Is there going to be any resolution to the investigations here? Is there going to be any kind of bipartisan investigation?
DAYTON: Well, there should be. I‘m on the Senate Armed Services Committee. We tried there. I‘m on the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which Harry Truman started in World War II to look into these contracting abuses back then. We can‘t get either one of them to do it.
The Republicans just don‘t care. As long as Dick Cheney‘s former firm, Halliburton, is responsible, the sky‘s the limit. They‘ve been told that they‘ve been overcharging the American taxpayer, they‘ve been bilking our troops.
This is disgraceful, the fact that our troops are over there putting their lives on the line, and they can‘t even trust to have safe water.
OLBERMANN: Halliburton‘s denying these allegations, of course, even though the Democratic Policy Committee has a copy of an e-mail that is purportedly from one of the company‘s PR people acknowledging the allegation that is—that says, and let me quote it exactly, "I don‘t want to turn into a big issue right now, but if we end up getting some media calls, I want to make sure we have all the facts so we are ready to respond." That‘s the end of that quote.
That would seem to suggest that the company, at the very least, knew enough about the allegations to want to do damage control but not literal control.
DAYTON: Sure. They wanted to cover it up. The memo you cited earlier was from the head of the water quality for Ira, and he‘s the leading authority. He said, Fact, we‘ve been providing contaminated water to our troops for a year now, statement of fact. The company‘s lying if they deny responsibility., we have been providing contaminated water to our troops for a year now. Statement of fact. The company‘s lying if they deny responsibility for this.
OLBERMANN: Senator Mark Dayton, who attended today‘s Democratic Policy Committee meeting looking into the Halliburton contaminated water charges in Iraq. Great thanks for sharing some of your time tonight, sir.
DAYTON: Thank you, Keith.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/11007425/
