Public Statements
Tribute to Late Senator Eugene Joseph McCarthy
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Dec. 13, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


TRIBUTE TO LATE SENATOR EUGENE JOSEPH MCCARTHY -- (Senate - December 13, 2005)
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to a great Minnesotan and great American, former Senator Eugene McCarthy, who passed away last Saturday at the age of 89. Senator McCarthy served two terms in this body, from 1958 to 1970, after serving five terms in the House of Representatives. In addition to his very distinguished legislative career, he is perhaps best remembered for his historic Presidential campaign in 1968, in which he deposed an incumbent President.
Eugene Joseph McCarthy was born on March 29, 1916, in Watkins, MN. He graduated from St. John's University in Collegeville, MN, in 1935, and then earned a master's degree in economics and sociology at the University of Minnesota.
After college, he spent 9 months as a novice in a Benedictine seminary. The world pulled him away, however, and he played semiprofessional baseball, taught high school social science, was a professor at his alma mater, St. John's, and then chaired the sociology department at St. Thomas University in St. Paul, MN.
During World War II he worked in a military intelligence division of the War Department. He married a fellow teacher, Abigail Quigley, with whom he had three daughters and a son. Abigail McCarthy passed away in 2001.
In 1948 Gene McCarthy was elected to the House of Representatives from Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District. While in the House, Congressman McCarthy founded McCarthy's Mavericks, which was the forerunner of the Democratic study group that would, in succeeding decades, be influential in developing many important legislative initiatives.
In 1952, he was the first Member of Congress to challenge Senator Joseph McCarthy in a nationally televised debate on foreign policy. That political courage presaged his decision 15 years later to challenge an incumbent President. In 1958, Congressman McCarthy defeated an incumbent Senator to become Senator McCarthy. He was reelected to the Senate in 1964 with over 60 percent of the vote. Then, in November of 1967, he announced his candidacy for President, challenging the incumbent President of his own party, Lyndon Johnson. In his announcement speech he said:
I am hopeful that this challenge may alleviate this sense of political helplessness and restore to many people a belief in the process of American politics and of American government.
His candidacy ignited a new generation of political activists, many of them young college students who shaved, showered, and went ``Clean for Gene.'' They swarmed into New Hampshire for the first political contest of 1968. There they helped Senator McCarthy transform the political landscape by holding President Johnson to 49 percent of the vote in the Democratic primary, with 42 percent voting for Senator McCarthy. Seldom has a second-place finish been considered such a victory. Two weeks later, President Johnson withdrew his candidacy for reelection. Shortly thereafter, fellow Senator Robert Kennedy and fellow Minnesotan Vice President Hubert Humphrey entered the Presidential contest, two actions that Gene McCarthy would never forget or forgive.
The Democratic contest became divisive in subsequent primaries, then catastrophic with the assassination of Robert Kennedy, then destructive at the tumultuous national convention in Chicago that nominated Hubert Humphrey, not Gene McCarthy. The nominee and the party did not recover from that disastrous convention and Richard Nixon was elected President in November. The Vietnam war continued for 7 more years.
Gene McCarthy retired from the Senate in 1970 and never again held public office. Some of his later remarks, reflecting his disenchantment and his defiance, along with his acerbic wit, dismayed some Democrats and disillusioned former supporters. Gene McCarthy, however, was always his own man. He once said his definition of patriotism was ``to serve one's country not in submission, but to serve it in truth.''
He used his pen and his tongue to speak his own truth, regardless of the personal or political consequences. In that respect, he was a true patriot.
After he was decried by Johnson's supporters as a mere ``footnote in history,'' he retorted, ``I think we can say with Churchill, `but what a footnote.'''
You are much more than a footnote, Senator McCarthy. You were a U.S. Senator. You made history and you changed history. You were true to yourself, to your ideals and to your convictions. You were a poet, a philosopher, and a patriot, a great Minnesotan and a great American. May you rest in peace.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
