Public Statements
Departments of Commerce and Justice, Science and Related Agencies for Fiscal Year 2006--Conference Report
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 15, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE AND JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2006--CONFERENCE REPORT -- (Senate - November 15, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. I thank the distinguished ranking member, the Senator from Maryland, for her kind words. I commend her and the chairman of the committee, Senator Shelby, for their outstanding work on this conference report. I know it was under very difficult circumstances.
There are many good features to the report, as the Senator has just described. Again, I thank her for her leadership and her tenacious fighting on behalf of these efforts, whether they were successful or whether they were not.
Tragically, however, the House and the administration largely prevailed in this conference report in cutting funding for the law enforcement programs to only 38 percent of the Senate's position. Senator Chambliss from Georgia and I cosponsored a bipartisan amendment to the Senate bill that passed the Senate unanimously, which increased the Byrne grant funding from $900 million for fiscal 2006. Yet the House and administration, in the conference, slashed that appropriations to $416.4 million, which is a one-third reduction from fiscal year 2005.
Byrne grants fund local law enforcement to combat the most urgent public safety problems in their own communities. In my own State of Minnesota, Byrne grant programs have provided the critically important funds to fight the scourge of methamphetamine, which is an illegal drug crisis in many States, as the distinguished ranking member has outlined. She has been in the forefront in efforts to increase the Federal funding to fight this catastrophe that is afflicting our citizens, afflicting people of all ages--I am told by chiefs of police, those as young as 10, and senior citizens
in their eighties, from all parts of Minnesota and from all walks of life and backgrounds. While the burdens on local police and sheriffs and other local law enforcement officials have been increasing, Byrne grants to Minnesota have decreased from over $8 million in 2000 to $7.5 million last year. This year's cut in this conference report will mean that Minnesota's share of Byrne grant funding will drop to less than $5 million next year, which is a 40-percent reduction from the year 2000.
In addition, the COPS grants in this report are cut from $606 million to $416 million, another one-third reduction, with zero dollars provided for the hiring of new law enforcement officers, which was the program's original goal. Byrne grants and COPS are the two most important sources of Federal funds to boost police and sheriff forces throughout our country, to increase the drug prevention programs or drug court interdictions. They are programs that keep our neighborhoods safer, our communities safer, and our rural counties safer.
Why do the administration and the House want to drastically cut Federal support from local law enforcement; to cut funds from the brave men and women who are on the frontlines against the forces of evil in our society, who are risking their lives day and night to defeat the evil predators who are destroying the lives of our citizens? Why? It is unconscionable, it is incomprehensible that the House and the administration are defunding local law enforcement.
Here we have an administration that preaches national security but will not fund it at home. It is an administration that preaches the war against terrorism but will not fund the war against drug-dealing and drug-pushing terrorists on our streets and in our schools. How mistaken, how shortsighted, how wrong-directed could anyone be?
Again, I thank the Senate's chairman and ranking member for doing their best against the administration, which would like to eliminate these programs because they were the good ideas of the previous administration and their allies in the House. Congress should be providing more money, not less, but more money to strengthen local law enforcement in their fight against organized crime, drug dealers, and other predators. For that reason, I regretfully cannot support this report.
The citizens of America deserve better law enforcement and more Federal support to make it possible--not the lower, the cut position of the House and administration.
I yield the floor.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
