Public Statements
Governor Dayton and Tribal Leaders Announce $880,000 Grant to help American Indian Adults Develop Skills for Careers and College
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 17, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton and American Indian leaders today announced an $880,000 grant to create the Anishinaabe Basic Education Initiative. The initiative will provide American Indian adult learners opportunities to develop skills for careers and college in an innovative, culturally contextualized learning environment rooted in indigenous culture. In the first year alone, the program is expected to allow 150 American Indian adult learners to attain their high school diploma equivalencies, and access job training for in-demand careers in fields such as health care and information technology.

"The Anishinaabe Basic Education Initiative will help American Indian Minnesotans attain the educations they need for good careers," said Governor Dayton. "I thank the Northwest Indian Community Development Center, the American Indian Opportunities Industrialization Center, and Minnesota's Tribal Leaders for their stewardship of this initiative. Providing all Minnesotans access to educational opportunities will help build an economy that works better for all Minnesotans."

During the 2016 Legislative Session, the American Indian Opportunities Industrialization Center and the Northwest Indian Community Development Center advocated for the $880,000 one-time grant. In future years, an ongoing grant of $250,000 is expected to sustain the program, while further increasing access for additional adult learners.

Having a high school diploma or GED increases the earning power of individuals by 37.5 percent -- that is nearly a $10,000 per year median wage increase, which can make a significant difference for a Minnesota family. However, only about 50 percent of American-Indian high school students currently attain a diploma within four years. The Anishinaabe Basic Education Initiative will provide these Minnesotans opportunities to earn their diplomas, further their educations, and gain access to in-demand careers.

Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith worked with the Legislature in 2016 to secure this funding as part of their broader commitment to expanding economic opportunity and alleviating disparities for all Minnesotans. Overall, the Governor and the Lt. Governor worked with the Legislature to secure a $35 million investment for high-impact strategies to close racial economic disparities, and build an economy that works better for everyone, everywhere in Minnesota.

Expanding Economic Opportunities for Minnesota's Tribal Nations
In addition to the Anishinaabe Basic Education Initiative, Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith also worked with the Legislature to provide the White Earth Nation a $500,000 one-time grant with $125,000 in on-going funding. The new investment is being used to create the White Earth Nation Integrated Business Development System, which will provide business assistance, workforce development support, financing, and technical and operational support to help local entrepreneurs start and expand their businesses.
Permalink: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/index.jsp?id=1055-252947

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/252947
