Public Statements
Executive Session
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 27, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


EXECUTIVE SESSION -- (Senate - September 27, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. It seems clear to this Senator that the only way to avoid the appearance of impropriety deciding a case directly involving the President of the United States while being considered by him for nomination to the Supreme Court was for Judge Roberts to remove himself from the appeals court panel. At a minimum he should have disclosed those interviews to the plaintiff and his attorney.
When asked about this case during the Judiciary Committee's hearings, Judge Roberts declined to acknowledge any regret for his actions even with the benefit of hindsight. I find his lack of self-awareness to be shocking. Can an impartial observer not wonder whether Judge Roberts would have been nominated by the President to the Supreme Court if he ruled against the President 4 days earlier?
Obviously, the instances I have cited do not comprise the complete public record of Judge Roberts. Regrettably, as I said earlier, we will not have the complete record because important documents from his tenure as Deputy Solicitor General in the first Bush administration are being withheld from us. These and other similar incidents do, however, raise sufficient doubts and concerns so that I cannot vote to confirm Judge Roberts as the next Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. My doubts and concerns are magnified by the enormity of his influence over the Court and the country during, given his age and life expectancy, probably the next 30 to 40 years.
I disagree with my colleagues and fellow citizens who view the current Supreme Court as some liberal bastion.
In fact, seven of the nine Justices were nominated by Republican Presidents. During the past decade, the Rehnquist Court rejected congressional actions on affirmative action, violence against women, Americans with disabilities, age discrimination in employment, and enforcement of environmental laws. Many crucial cases were decided by 5-to-4 votes. I view the current Supreme Court as closely divided between this country's conservative center and its far-right extreme. I fear this nominee and the President's next nominee will shift the Court drastically and destructively toward that far-right extreme. That may form the President's political base, but it does not constitute the country's citizen base.
The Supreme Court belongs to all Americans, not just a politically favored minority. Its Justices should be exactly what many right-wing activists don't want--men and women of moderate, independent views who will decide cases from mainstream judicial and social perspectives rather than extreme ideological prisms. How much do the Court's opinions matter to the lives of all Americans? Enormously, more than we realize and much more than we take for granted.
I ask unanimous consent that an article from Harper's magazine by University of Chicago law professor Cass R. Sunstein be printed in the RECORD following my remarks.
Mr. DAYTON. He pointed out that in 1920, minimum wage and maximum hour laws were unconstitutional in this country. In 1945, he wrote, the Supreme Court permitted racial segregation, did not protect the right to vote, and gave little protection to political dissent. Fortunately, subsequent Supreme Courts reversed those decisions. Unfortunately, subsequent Supreme Courts can reverse them again.
Millions and millions of Americans depend upon the rights and protections secured by those and other longstanding laws, and they assume those rights and protections are guaranteed, not provisional, and not contingent upon who is sitting on the Supreme Court. Those millions of Americans, most of whom do not share the extreme views of the Republican Party's radical right wing, deserve to continue their lives with the rights and protections established by previous Supreme Courts. Those citizens and this Senate are entitled to know whether a Chief Justice Roberts and a Roberts Supreme Court would respect and uphold those long-established precedents and principles or reject them. Instead, we are being asked to wonder now and wait to find out later. That is too risky a gamble with the future of America and why I will vote against Judge Roberts' nomination.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
