Public Statements
Voting Against the Nomination of Judge John G. Roberts, Jr. for Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 27, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Voting Against the Nomination of Judge John G. Roberts, Jr. for Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
I recently voted against the nomination of Judge John G. Roberts, Jr. to be the next Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. The available record of Judge Roberts' writings during his public career reveal his persistent opposition to laws enforcing desegregation, protecting minority voting rights, guaranteeing quality public education to a student with disabilities, and providing damages to a student who had been sexually abused by a teacher. Regrettably, Judge Roberts declined repeated invitations by Senators during the recent Judiciary Committee hearings to recant or modify some of his most extreme and disturbing statements and positions.
For example, in a 1981 memo to White House Counsel, Fred Fielding, Judge Roberts referred to Mexican immigrants as "illegal amigos." Before the Judiciary Committee, he claimed, "It was a play on the standard practice of many politicians, including President Reagan, when he was talking to a Hispanic audience he would throw in some language in Spanish." Pressed again, he replied, "The tone was, I think, generally appropriate for a memo from me to Mr. Fielding."
I strongly disagree.
During the Reagan Administration, Judge Roberts was one of the lawyers in the Justice Department fighting against any improvements to the Voting Rights Act. He reportedly drafted a letter sent to Senator Strom Thurmond, urging him to oppose the bill extending the Voting Rights Act, which the House had passed by a vote of 389 to 24. Despite Judge Roberts' opposition, and the opposition of President Reagan, the Senate passed the bill 85 to 8, with Senator Thurmond voting in the majority. President Reagan signed it into law 10 days later.
In 1982, Judge Roberts opposed the claim of a deaf student that she should have the classroom services of a sign-language interpreter under the Federal Education for All Handicapped Children Act. Ten years later, as Deputy Solicitor General, he argued that another student, a 10th grade girl, had no right to damages after being sexually harassed by a teacher. This time, the Supreme Court unanimously rejected Judge Roberts' position and ruled in the girl's favor.
What Judge Roberts' available writings show is a man born into wealth and privilege, and thereby given all the advantages to assure his success in life, who consistently opposed even lesser opportunities for Americans born into less fortunate circumstances. He called school desegregation, "a failed experiment." He claimed that federal law entitled the deaf student only to a "free, appropriate education," and denounced the "effort by activist, lower court judges" to give her more. He opposed compensatory damages for the girl sexually harassed by her teacher, even though the federal government was not a party in the case. Thus, my principal concerns are not about Judge Roberts' mind but about his heart.
Obviously, the instances I have cited do not comprise the complete public record of Judge Roberts. Regrettably, the Senate did not have the complete record, because important documents from his tenure as Deputy Solicitor General in the first President Bush Administration were withheld from us. These and other similar incidents did, however, raise sufficient doubts and concerns that I could not vote to confirm Judge Roberts as the next Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court.
My doubts and concerns were magnified by the enormity of his influence over the Court and the country during, given his age and life expectancy, the next 30 to 40 years.
I disagree with my Senate colleagues and fellow citizens who view the current Supreme Court as some liberal bastion. In fact, seven of the nine Justices were nominated by Republican Presidents. I view the current Supreme Court as closely balanced between this country's conservative center and the far-right extreme. I fear that this nominee and the President's next nominee will shift the Court drastically and destructively to that far-right extreme.
The Supreme Court belongs to all Americans, not just to a politically favored minority. Its Justices should be exactly what many right-wing activists don't want- men and women of moderate, independent views, who will decide cases from mainstream judicial and social perspectives, rather than extreme ideological prisms.
All Americans deserve to live their lives with the basic rights and protections established by the Constitution and upheld by previous Supreme Courts. Judge Roberts would not assure the Senate, and thus his fellow citizens, that he would respect those clearly-established precedents and principles, and not reverse them. That is why I voted against his nomination.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=246495&&
