Public Statements
Hurricane Katrina
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 15, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


HURRICANE KATRINA -- (Senate - September 15, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I have come to the floor to join with the distinguished assistant Democratic leader in his conscientious and continuing concern for the victims of Hurricane Katrina.
I have seen the Senator from Illinois on the floor day after day, raising these questions, addressing these concerns. I understand tomorrow the Senator is going to New Orleans to tour the area personally, with Senate leadership, to see what needs to be done there to address the human suffering. I hear in his voice, and know from his longstanding commitment to the people of Illinois, the depth of his own heartfelt concern for their problems and his passion for their suffering and to do what we can, what we must, to address those problems.
I look forward to hearing from the Senator next week, after his return from New Orleans and that area, as to what we can do more effectively--all of us as leaders in the Senate, all of us working together, all of us as Americans, not as Democrats or Republicans, not as partisans but as patriots--on behalf of all the people in need.
I share his concern. What prompted me to come to the floor is I heard the Senator speaking about some of the difficulties in getting some of the necessary information in order to perform our responsibilities as Senators. I share that frustration, or at least let me express my own frustration because as a member of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs which has, under the Senate's organizing resolution, the responsibility and the authority to oversee the Department of Homeland Security as well as FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which is under that agency, I have been confounded and enormously dismayed by the unwillingness of the Senate Republican leadership to permit that committee to do what it is responsible to do, which is to hold oversight hearings and to understand what is happening, what is not happening down in that flood-ravaged part of the country, and also to find out what must be done not to look at just failures--also, you hear about successes--not to point fingers of blame, but to exercise our oversight responsibility, particularly given that we have now, this body, at the President's request, appropriated almost $63 billion of taxpayers' money to address these critical emergency needs.
I do not question the need to act quickly. And we have done so. But to deliver that much money--Federal taxpayers' dollars--to the responsible agencies without any oversight, without any questions asked or answers provided about what is being done with that money, and particularly to hear the Senator from Illinois describe published reports of sole-source contracting with organizations that have political connections with the President's former campaign manager, I find it to be shocking and appalling we have not exercised that responsibility.
I would ask the leader, and others responsible for these decisions, about when we will be holding public hearings in that committee to authorize our proceeding to do so with those who are directly responsible for the recovery efforts.
None of us wants to disrupt the recovery efforts in the southern part of the country. Lord knows, they have been disrupted enough already by what has failed to be done there, without any involvement by any of us. But I find it perplexing that Cabinet secretaries who have enough time to appear on Sunday talk shows and who are also clearly not in Louisiana or Mississippi day and night, 7 days and nights a week around the clock, have, while they are here in Washington, not a single hour available to appear before our committee in a public setting and answer the questions I have, that I know other members of the committee have, and that the American people have. We deserve--most importantly, the American people deserve--answers to these important questions.
Yesterday, we had, after now 2 1/2 weeks since those levees failed in New Orleans, the very first public hearing of this committee. We had a former Governor of California, a former mayor of Grand Forks, ND, a couple of other wonderful former public servants who have expertise from their own past experiences, but not a single one of the people on that panel had any responsibility for the public response to Hurricane Katrina. Similarly, not a single person with public responsibility for that response was willing to appear on that committee.
It was 9 days ago that we had before a number of us Senators 10 Cabinet secretaries, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the head of the National Guard to brief us on the situation right here in the Capitol, but they were not willing to appear in a public setting, even though there was not a single word spoken in that briefing that could not and should not have been witnessed and heard by the American people.
A week ago we had the Director of Operations for FEMA and the Deputy Commandant of the Coast Guard appear before the Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, but they would not appear in a public setting. The briefing was behind closed doors. The public and press could not witness what they had to say. We have not yet, on this committee or any other committee that I am aware of--certainly none on which I serve, including Armed Services--had a single administration official willing to appear before us in a public setting and provide us with the information we desire, to allow us to ask questions and to provide answers in front of the committee and the American people. I find that unacceptable.
Again, I urge the Republican leadership of the Senate to authorize that committee to proceed as we are responsible to do, to join us and members of the committee, insist that the administration provide us their top officials. When they are not in New Orleans or Mississippi, when they are here in Washington, come up for an hour, an hour once, to begin with. Keep each of those Cabinet secretaries who were present 9 days ago, ask each one of them to come up and tell us in a public setting what their agency is doing to respond, what do they need from us, whether it is funding, legislation, removal of regulations, restrictions--tell us what you need from us in order to be more responsive and more effective in the Federal response to the emergency that persists. Come before us in a public setting, as public officials, as those who are responsible for the Federal response. Let us ask the questions we must to fulfill our oversight responsibilities, and let's start providing some public answers to the American people.
I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
