Public Statements
Nomination of John Roberts to be Chief Justice of the Unitd States Supreme Court
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 12, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


NOMINATION OF JOHN ROBERTS TO BE CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES SUPREME COURT -- (Senate - September 12, 2005)
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, today the Senate Judiciary Committee began its hearings on President Bush's nomination of Judge John Roberts to be the next Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. I remain undecided and open minded, as I believe virtually all of my colleagues have also stated themselves to be, about the nominee. I will remain so until those hearings are complete. Nevertheless, I commend President Bush for acting swiftly and responsibly to nominate the successor to the very distinguished and dedicated former Chief Justice William Rehnquist. His tragic death, along with the announced resignation of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, has created a second vacancy on the Supreme Court, a vacancy for which the President has not yet nominated a replacement but may do so any time in the future.
So it is not surprising that even while Judge Roberts confirmation hearings are just beginning, many Americans are already looking ahead and are attempting to influence the President's decision on this second Supreme Court nominee.
While President Bush unquestionably has the right to nominate the man or woman--I personally hope it is the woman--of his own choosing, and in fact the President has earned that right by his reelection last November, I believe he has the responsibility to select someone who would be the choice of the vast majority of all Americans, for this woman or man will be a Supreme Court Justice for all Americans living today and likely for all Americans yet to come for many years ahead. If confirmed, she or he will take an oath of office, as each of us has done, to uphold the Constitution of this great country, a 216-year-old document which still lives today to guarantee and protect the rights, the freedoms, and the responsibilities of all 290 million American citizens--not just the majority or the minority, not just Republicans or Democrats, not just conservatives or liberals, not just Christians, Muslims, or Jews, not just some but all Americans.
That responsibility--of the President, of this Senate, and of each Supreme Court Justice--to all Americans is why I found so disturbing an article in last Saturday's Washington Post. The front page lead-in said:
In defense of Alberto Gonzales, supporters counter the idea that the Attorney General is too moderate for the High Court.
Alberto Gonzales, as we all know, is the Attorney General of the United States and is widely considered to be one of the President's most likely considered nominees to fill this second Supreme Court vacancy. The Washington Post story's headline reads: ``Gonzales is Defended as Suitable for the Court.''
The article begins:
Supporters of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales have launched a campaign to rebut criticism that he is not reliably conservative enough to serve on the Supreme Court.
I find those words bizarre. Accurate, I have no doubt, in portraying a bizarre situation caused by the bizarre behavior of some bizarre people who are--and this is where it becomes frighteningly bizarre--seriously trying to determine who the President of the United States will or will not nominate to the U.S. Supreme Court.
It shall not be, they decree, someone too moderate to be suitable for the Supreme Court. Too moderate to be suitable to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court? What terrible acts of moderation has Attorney General Gonzales committed to make himself unsuitable, unfit or unqualified?
According to the article, as a justice on the Texas supreme court 5 years ago, then-Judge Gonzales sided with the court's majority in upholding the constitutionality of a Texas State law that provided a judicial bypass to allow a State judge, in exceptional circumstances, to allow a minor woman to obtain an abortion without her parents' notification. According to the article, Judge Gonzales:
..... wrote that he felt a duty to follow the law without imposing my moral view, even if the ramifications may be personally troubling to me as a parent.
In other words, he did what a State or Federal Supreme Court Justice is sworn to do, to decide upon the constitutionality of legislation that State legislatures or the Congress passes and that Governors or Presidents sign into law, based upon the written State and U.S. Constitutions, regardless of their personal views. If that is considered too moderate to be suitable for the Supreme Court, then this country is headed for the extreme deep end.
On the other side, to prove that the Attorney General is not too moderate to be suitable for the Supreme Court, his supporters reportedly note that, as President Bush's White House counsel, he successfully excluded the American Bar Association from the judicial selection process. That proves he is suitable? As I said, this political psychodrama has taken the bizarre twist of Alice in Wonderland, where black is white and up is down; where suitable is unsuitable and unsuitable becomes suitable, except that this is no play, and these people are not playing around. The stakes couldn't be higher, and these people are playing for them all. The stakes are the future of the country and all the people, all of the people who live in this great United States of America.
One conservative activist is quoted in the Post story:
You finally get a Republican President a real Republican majority in the Senate and then you don't move the country to the right? It would be totally demoralizing to the President's supporters.
First of all, this notion that the U.S. Supreme Court is some liberal bastion is itself bizarre and wrong. Seven of the nine Justices on the current Court were named by Republican Presidents. Chief Justice Rehnquist and three Associate Justices were nominated by President Reagan, two by former President George W. Bush, one by President Ford and two by a Democratic President, President Clinton. But that composition of the Court, 7 of 9 nominees by Republican Presidents, that is not enough for the activist zealots. They believe that some of those Republican judicial nominees had become too moderate, once they were safely confirmed and placed on the Supreme Court.
Too moderate for them is a judge who has independent views. Too moderate is a judge who has sworn to uphold the Constitution and not to impose his or her views on that process of legislation and enactment into law as prescribed by the U.S. Constitution. Too moderate for them means refraining from judicial activism, which they profess to oppose but in fact oppose only when they disagree with the Court's findings.
Government is not a Burger King. You are not supposed to all ``have it your way.'' People who think getting their own way all the time, especially from the U.S. Supreme Court, is somehow a measure of Presidential greatness are seriously wrong. People who are demoralized if they do not get it all their own way, especially from the U.S. Supreme Court, are dangerously misguided. I implore President Bush to rise above his base, as it is described in the article. If it is not to be Attorney General Gonzales, then someone else who is moderate and who is therefore suitable, who is therefore qualified to serve in this highest Court of the land. It may not serve the perceived interests of some of his misguided supporters, but it will serve the best interests of all of his supporters, who are all of us--all of the American people. He is the President of all of us. He was elected through our process to represent all of us, to be supported when we can, and ultimately, in the office he serves, by all Americans. It is the process for him to nominate and for this body to confirm a U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justice who will also serve, look out for and serve all Americans.
I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
