Public Statements
Governor Dayton, Lt. Governor Smith Proclaim "Game Fair Days" in Minnesota
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 12, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Over the next two weekends, visitors from across Minnesota and the Midwest will attend the 2016 Game Fair in Ramsey to celebrate and prepare for the upcoming start of the hunting season. In honor of Game Fair's 35th Anniversary, Governor Mark Dayton and Lt. Governor Tina Smith have proclaimed the weekends of August 12--14 and 19--21, 2016 to be "Game Fair Days" in Minnesota.

"Like many Minnesotans, I have enjoyed hunting and fishing in Minnesota for my entire life," said Governor Mark Dayton. "With hunting seasons just around the corner, Game Fair is a great opportunity for Minnesotans to gather and celebrate Minnesota's proud outdoor traditions."

Game Fair is the largest outdoors, pre-hunting seasons event of its kind in the United States. Visitors can check out the latest equipment, get expert advice on a variety of topics, including: deer hunting, techniques on bringing in ducks and geese, and preparing game. Game Fair also promotes environmental conservation and civic engagement by highlighting our state's rich natural resources and outdoors tradition.

"As the summer winds down, sportsmen and women across Minnesota are looking forward to the hunting seasons," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "Game Fair is a great way for hunters to celebrate Minnesota's outdoor traditions with family and friends. I wish all Minnesota hunters best of luck this fall!"

Minnesota is home to a proud hunting and outdoors tradition. An estimated 475,000 Minnesotans go hunting, averaging 17 days out in the field each year. The economic impact is significant. Minnesota and visiting hunters in our state spend an estimated $725 million a year on food and lodging, transportation, equipment, and other related expenses. In addition, Minnesota state parks host nearly 8 million visitors and nearly 1 million campers each year.

Read Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith's "Game Fair Days" in Minnesota proclamation here.
Permalink: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/index.jsp?id=1055-252276

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/252276
