Public Statements
Openness is Best Policy
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 8, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


OPENNESS IS BEST POLICY -- (Senate - September 08, 2005)
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I echo some of the remarks the Democratic leader made. I am about to leave this Chamber to go to a behind-closed-doors hearing of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs with the acting director of operations for FEMA and the Commandant of the Coast Guard. I am told that the chairman of the committee, the distinguished Senator from Maine, and the ranking member from Connecticut tried to get this hearing in public but that the administration officials would not appear in a public session. I think the public deserves to and would benefit from hearing these people with key roles in this recovery effort.
Similarly, on Tuesday evening, a majority of us in the Senate met with 10 members of the Cabinet, 10 Secretaries--all of them had important things to say--as well as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the head of the Coast Guard. That briefing should have been in a public setting. There was not a single remark made by anyone that was not unclassified and should not have been available to all of the people of this country, certainly those who are most beleaguered, who are looking for answers to the questions that the Democratic leader and others on both sides of the aisle have raised.
We had a brief time for questions. We were not able to ask those questions of the administration officials in a public setting before the American people. Yet the President is coming forth now with a second request for funding, $51.8 billion on top of the $10.5 billion the Senate and the House passed last week. These matters are moving swiftly. We are told by FEMA that the burn rate--only in the Federal Government would the spending of taxpayer money of $2 billion a day be called a burn rate, but the FEMA director has said they are spending $2 billion a day. That is why we have to have a second supplemental before this body in less than 2 weeks.
I understand the need to move quickly, but I have been in this body all week. We could have come back last week. We have not had a single public hearing on any of these matters, I am told, because the administration officials will not appear in public before these committees to answer questions before us and before the American people. I find that to be unacceptable.
The administration has a responsibility to come before us in public hearings and public sessions and present their testimony but then answer our questions. Give us a chance to ask and for them to answer the questions that are on the minds of millions of Americans these days. We have a right to public hearings before we expend another $51.8 billion of public money.
The administration has that responsibility, I believe, and I ask that the distinguished majority leader of the Senate insist in his discussions with the administration--and I am quite confident that the Democratic leader and all of our caucus would support this--that these hearings and briefings be in public settings before the American people and not behind closed doors. If we are going to work together in a bipartisan way, let us do so. Let us begin that work now in public sessions. I challenge the administration officials to come before us in those settings.
I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
