Public Statements
Hurricane Katrina and Soaring Gas Prices
Floor Speech
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 7, 2005
Location: Washington, DC

HURRICANE KATRINA AND SOARING GAS PRICES -- (Senate - September 07, 2005)
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I also want to join with others of my colleagues today who have expressed the concerns, condolences, and sympathies to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, which has so horribly claimed so many of our fellow Americans' lives, families and friends, homes, businesses, farms, schools, and entire communities that are the worst victims of this unprecedented disaster. Our hearts go out to all of them. Our helping hands are being extended and must continue to be extended to them.
There are millions of other victims of this disaster, Americans nationwide whose economic well-being has been harmed by price increases and supply or service disruptions.
In my State of Minnesota, probably the worst economic damage and financial hardships have been caused by the skyrocketing prices for gasoline and other essential energy supplies. Even before Hurricane Katrina, those prices had been increasing sharply. In the 3 months from May 28 to August 28 of this year, the average price of regular unleaded gasoline throughout Minnesota has risen from $1.92 a gallon to $2.55 a gallon. That is an increase of 63 cents a gallon, a one-third increase in just 3 months.
Then, in 3 days last week, from August 29 to September 1, the average gasoline prices in Minnesota jumped another 46 cents a gallon, according to one Web site that has spot check reports from throughout the State. So in 3 months and 3 days, the average gasoline prices, according to this Web site, in Minnesota, jumped from $1.92 a gallon to $3.01 a gallon, a 57-percent increase. That is not as bad as some other parts of the country, but it is sure worse than bad enough for Minnesota.
I know from direct personal experience driving around northern Minnesota last week that actual prices were much higher, as high as $3.46 a gallon for regular unleaded gasoline, which was up almost $1 a gallon from 2 weeks before. Unfortunately, that up-to-date, accurate information is not available from the Energy Information Administration Web site, and that is one of the defects that needs to be remedied.
Most of Minnesota's oil and gasoline supplies originate from Canada, come in either by gasoline or oil pipelines and then refined within our State. So almost all of our price increases for gasoline and other energy products were not directly the result of Katrina's supply disruptions. Rather, they were the result of other people taking advantage of that disaster to take advantage of the people of Minnesota.
Last week, President Bush called it ``price gouging at the gasoline pump,'' and I agree with the President. President Bush also said that there should be zero tolerance for gasoline price gouging, similar to looting in New Orleans, and I agree with the President on that as well because price gouging has the same effect as looting or other kinds of stealing. It is robbing the people of Minnesota and elsewhere throughout this country by overcharging them for their essential energy needs.
Given the similarity of the gasoline price increases throughout Minnesota, I think there is a strong possibility of pricing collusion by the major oil suppliers and distributors that demands immediate investigation and, where called for, vigorous prosecution of violators. What they have done is not only immoral, it is also illegal under Federal law.
I have written the United States Attorney General and urged him to back up the President's strong words with his strong immediate action to investigate all indications of price gouging and/or pricing collusion of gasoline, diesel fuel, aviation fuel, farm fertilizers, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas, home heating oil, ethanol, and any and all other oil supplies.
At this time, I urge the President to release whatever supplies are necessary from our Nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserves to offset the loss of oil, gasoline, and other energy supplies resulting from Hurricane Katrina.
Last night, the Secretary of Energy told a number of us in the Senate, in a briefing, that gasoline prices have been stabilized. Well, with due respect, Mr. Secretary, I must say they have been stabilized far too high in Minnesota, if, in fact, they have been stabilized at all. Thus, whatever has been done so far is not enough. Gasoline prices are still unaffordably too high in Minnesota.
Other energy prices are still unaffordably too high, and with the cold weather heating season soon upon Minnesotans and other Americans in the United States, it is imperative to act now and keep on doing whatever is necessary to get energy prices back down to pre-Katrina levels--which were still too high--and then deal with that continuing energy price crisis in Minnesota and other affected States and continue to do whatever is necessary to get those lower prices.
In the immediate term, we need to strive for lower energy prices, and we need executive action to prosecute price gouging, price collusion. We also, then, need, as a body of Congress, to do whatever is necessary to strengthen Federal legislation to prohibit and prevent this kind of economic looting of our fellow citizens.
A couple of my colleagues have announced, just in the last 2 days, their intentions to introduce legislation. Senator Dorgan of North Dakota intends to offer windfall profits tax legislation on U.S. oil companies and other energy suppliers. Senator Cantwell of Washington has indicated her intention to offer legislation that would give the President additional powers to mitigate price increases in times of crisis.
I intend to introduce in the next 2 days, as soon as it is complete, legislation that would prevent and prosecute price gouging in energy and other essential commodities. In a nutshell, this legislation would make it illegal in any emergency situation to take advantage of consumers by raising energy prices or other essential commodity prices. It would give the U.S. Attorney General further authority to prosecute retail gasoline stations, oil companies, distributors--whoever is found to be in violation of this provision. It would require the Energy Information Administration to provide current prices for major metropolitan areas for every State and for our entire Nation on a daily basis so that we can evaluate those price increases so that citizens can know, in perspective, what they are being charged and how it compares with other parts of the country. They can then be our eyes and ears to report evidence of these rising prices that constitute price gouging, as the President said, at the gasoline pump.
We have witnessed once again, in the midst of this disaster affecting Southern United States, that such disasters bring out both the best and the worst of human nature. They bring out the best, as we have seen the courageous men and women of the National Guard, the medical personnel, and many others who are literally risking their own lives to save the lives of others. We have seen the best of human nature in the response of millions of Americans from all over the country who have contributed whatever they can and are offering to do more to alleviate this suffering.
Here in the Senate last week, and also in the House, we provided an additional $10.5 billion the President requested to continue emergency operations. All of us, including those at a meeting last night with a number of the Cabinet Secretaries, were asking the administration, What do you need us to do? Money? Authorizing legislation? Streamlining existing legislation? Tell us what we need to do in the Senate and House to expedite in the best possible ways the relief effort that must continue for months ahead.
This is not a Republican or Democratic disaster or Republican or Democratic response. It is an American disaster, and it is a response of all of us as Americans to our fellow citizens in need.
Unfortunately, there is another side to human nature, and that is what we must also address. It cannot be allowed. It certainly cannot be rewarded with profits to those who take advantage of the despair of their fellow citizens. Some cannot be allowed to cause even further economic hardship, even devastation, especially to those who can least afford the prices of energy essentials and other necessities of life. That is where our fellow citizens look to us to stand up on their behalf to prevent, prosecute, and to prohibit this kind of economic looting that the President called price gouging.
I support his statement. I urge the U.S. Attorney General to put action behind those words, and then I urge my colleagues to join with me in passing legislation to prohibit and prevent this from happening again and to prosecute those who are responsible for it.
I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum.
http://thomas.loc.gov/

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
