Public Statements
Dayton Urges Attorney General to Investigate Price Gouging at the Pump
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 7, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Urges Attorney General to Investigate Price Gouging at the Pump
Washington, D.C.- In a letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, U.S. Senator Mark Dayton urged the Department of Justice to investigate the recent surge in gas prices around the nation. Though the majority of Minnesota's oil supply comes from Canada, gas prices in Minnesota spiked following Hurricane Katrina, just as they did throughout the rest of the country.
The full text of Senator Dayton's letter is below:
September 7, 2005
Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales
U.S. Department of Justice
950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20530
Dear Mr. Attorney General:
On September 1st, President Bush said, "There ought to be zero tolerance of people breaking the law during an emergency such as [Hurricane Katrina], whether it be looting, or price-gouging at the gasoline pump, or taking advantage of charitable giving, or insurance fraud."
I agree with the President, and I urge your Department to investigate the sudden increase in gasoline prices in Minnesota and elsewhere in the country. In Minnesota, average gasoline prices have increased by 52 percent -from $1.97 per gallon to $3.01 per gallon, in just three months, from June 1st to September 1st. In just three days, from August 29th to September 1st, average gasoline prices in Minnesota increased 45 cents per gallon. Some gas prices in Minnesota increased by almost $1.00 per gallon last week.
Most of Minnesota's oil and gasoline supplies come from Canada. That certainly points to, in the President's words, "price-gouging." The similar price increases across the state also raise serious questions about price collusions by major suppliers and distributors.
I urge you to investigate those matters immediately and to prosecute any violations vigorously. Please advise me of your findings and actions regarding any gasoline "price-gouging" in Minnesota or elsewhere in the country.
Sincerely,
Mark Dayton
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=245302&&
