Public Statements
Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 28, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


PROTECTION OF LAWFUL COMMERCE IN ARMS ACT -- (Senate - July 28, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I thank my colleague, the senior Senator from Michigan, for whom I have so much respect. He is a leader and champion in so many important areas and has, once again, risen to this occasion. I am proud to be cosponsor of the Levin amendment.
Mr. President, this legislation eviscerates the liability for negligence for one industry in America, the gun industry. I strongly support the second amendment.
I have enjoyed the support of the NRA in the past, probably not in the future. Last year in this country, by the industry statistics, over 1.3 million handguns were sold and over 2 million long guns--legally, properly, in almost all cases constitutionally protected. Nothing in this country, nothing being considered here, nothing that would ever pass this body, in my lifetime, would prevent law-abiding citizens from lawfully buying and owning firearms. Nothing should and nothing will, not because of the existence of the NRA, not because they are holding forth and preventing the marauding hordes from somehow overriding and overturning this constitutional amendment--it is not going to be changed because the political support in this country would not be for it. The people would not support it. That right is constitutional and it is inviolable, but it is not inconsistent with that right to also require the responsible distribution and sale of those millions of firearms.
We all know what damage they can do to innocent people when they are misused by criminals or mistakenly used by children. We should do all we reasonably can to prevent those tragedies to innocent people and to innocent families. We should insist that everyone in the gun industry do all they can to prevent them as well. That is what the legal standard of negligence requires. It is what most people in this industry consistently practice.
I own two handguns. I own two shotguns. They are in Minnesota, purchased from Minnesota dealers who take their responsibilities very seriously. They are not our concern. They need not be concerned because their own practices are a clear defense against any unwarranted accusations.
However, there are a few in this country, as there are in any industry, that are not responsible manufacturers, distributors, or dealers. Senator Levin has cited evidence of the results of those irresponsible actions, and they should be our concern. They certainly do not warrant our protection. They certainly do not deserve to be elevated to a special status that is not accorded to responsible manufacturers and sellers of every other consumer product in America.
The Levin amendment, and I will read it again, says that if gross negligence or reckless conduct of that person was the proximate cause, a direct cause of death or injury to somebody else, this act shall not prohibit a civil liability action from being brought forth. How can anyone here be opposed to that? It defines those terms clearly in the amendment, which was one of the specious excuses used to oppose it last year. It defines its terms more clearly than does the underlying bill. So if this amendment fails, it truly gives lie to the claim that this bill intends to hold the gun industry to any standard of liability. If not for gross negligence that is a direct cause of death or injury to an innocent person, if not for that, there is no standard of liability at all.
The American Bar Association has taken a position in opposition to this legislation, and I would just note a couple of references. I ask unanimous consent that following my remarks, this be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
(See exhibit 1.)
Mr. DAYTON. It says that this proposed legislation would remove defendants from one of the oldest principles of civil liability law--that persons or companies who act negligently should be accountable to victims harmed by this failure of responsibility. It states that under product liability laws in most States, manufacturers must adopt feasible safety devices that would prevent injuries caused when their products are foreseeably misused, regardless of whether the uses are ``intended'' by the manufacturer or whether the product ``fails or improperly functions.''
Thus, as the Senator from Michigan noted, automobile makers have been held civilly liable for not making cars crashworthy even though the intended use is not to ``crash the cars.'' Manufacturers of cigarette lighters must make them childproof even though children are not intended to use them. Under this proposed legislation, however, State laws would be preempted so that gun manufacturers would enjoy a special immunity.
The letter also points out that this is happening in the existing legal backdrop of the present unparalleled immunity that the firearms industry already enjoyed from any Federal safety regulation. Unlike all other consumer products except for tobacco, there is no Federal law or regulatory authority that sets minimum safety standards for domestically manufactured firearms because that industry was able to gain an exemption for firearms from the 1972 enacted Consumer Product Safety Act, the primary Federal law that protects consumers from products that present unreasonable risk of injury. Of all the products we should have included in that legislation, firearms are among them given the inherent danger from their misuse or from their improper manufacture. Instead, they are exempted from the consumer product safety oversight by the Federal Government. That is the power of the industry. I guess they have the power, they are demonstrating, to get this bill enacted as well and remove themselves from all liability. That is not in the best interest of America. It is not a fair standard for America. It is an injustice to other businesses, manufacturers and sellers of every other product in America.
If we are going to recognize, as we should, that excessive litigation is a problem for this industry and for most all others, we should deal with tort reform in its entirety as it applies fairly and equally to all businesses and all industries, not single out one for special treatment.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
