Public Statements
Dayton to Travel to China, Will Meet with Chinese Leaders, Members of Minnesota Business Community
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 28, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton to Travel to China, Will Meet with Chinese Leaders, Members of Minnesota Business Community
U.S. Senator Mark Dayton will travel on an educational trip to China next week while the Senate is in recess. He plans to travel to Beijing, Shanghai, Shandong, Tianjin, and Hong Kong, where he will meet with Chinese leaders to discuss energy and trade issues. Dayton will also visit the steel company that recently purchased 30 percent of the Iron Range-based Cleveland-Cliffs, Inc.'s United Taconite Company.
In 2003, Dayton worked with the Chinese Embassy to help the Nassif family, of Rochester, to secure the adoption of their son, Luke Nassif. Luke was orphaned in Tianjin and brought to the United States to receive medical care at the Mayo Clinic. Dayton looks forward to fulfilling his commitment of donating, in person, a supply of diapers to an orphanage in Tianjin.
Additionally, Dayton looks forward to meeting with executives of several Minnesota companies with operations in China, including: 3M, Cargill, General Mills, Medtronic, and Northwest Airlines.
Today, Dayton issued the following statement:
"I will travel next month at my own expense on an educational trip to China. I look forward to meeting with Chinese officials to discuss biofuels and increased energy needs. I am interested in learning more about China's steel industry to better understand their plans to meet demands for steel and taconite. I am going to Tiangen, where Luke Nassif was adopted, so that I can fulfill my commitment to donate supplies to that orphanage. I will also travel to Shanghai and rural areas, to see how the population really lives."
Jennifer Wu, the University of Minnesota's Program Coordinator of the China Center and Assistant to the Director of the Mingda Institute for Leadership Training will serve as an interpreter and guide for the trip. Chris Lisi, Dayton's Communications Director and Deputy Chief of Staff will travel with him to China. Dayton plans to return from his trip the week of August 15th.

Source: http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=241777&&
