Public Statements
3,300 Kids in 74 Minnesota School Districts Will Enroll in Free, Voluntary Pre-Kindergarten Programs This Year
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Aug. 8, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton and Lt. Governor Tina Smith were joined today by Education Commissioner Brenda Cassellius to announce that beginning this fall, 3,302 four-year-olds in 74 Minnesota school districts and charter schools will attend voluntary pre-kindergarten, free of charge. These programs will save families thousands of dollars, while preparing Minnesota's youngest learners for success in school and life. With this pre-kindergarten investment, just over one-fifth of all Minnesota school districts will provide free, voluntary pre-kindergarten for four-year-olds in their communities.

Minnesota's pre-kindergarten expansion was made possible by a new $25 million investment secured this session by Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith. But additional state funding is needed to ensure all Minnesota four-year-olds gain access to free, voluntary pre-kindergarten. In total, 183 school districts and charter schools applied for pre-kindergarten funding this year. But due to a lack of funding, nearly 60 percent of those districts did not receive state aid. Had additional state funding been available, 10,139 children in those 183 districts and charter schools that applied would have been enrolled in pre-kindergarten programs this year.

"Minnesota schools and families want voluntary pre-kindergarten, and our children need it to succeed," said Governor Dayton. "But without additional funding, thousands of kids will be denied the educational opportunities they need to achieve their greatest potentials. Lt. Governor Smith and I will keep fighting until every Minnesota family has the choice to send their child to preschool."

Last year, Minnesota was ranked 50th in the nation for access to full-day early learning programs. According to the Annie E. Casey Kids Count Data Book, 55 percent of Minnesota's three- and four-year-olds are not enrolled in any form of pre-kindergarten. Many Minnesota students who are enrolled in early learning programs have to pay tuition. Over 25,800 early learning scholarships funded by the Governor and Legislature over the last three years have helped reduce those costs for families. But many Minnesota families do not qualify for state-funded scholarships, and are forced to pay thousands of dollars for pre-kindergarten tuition or expensive childcare.

"The investment we made this session brings Minnesota closer to optional preschool for all four-year-olds, regardless of their families' ability to pay. But we have a lot more work to do," said Lt. Governor Tina Smith. "Access to preschool is a proven strategy for closing our state's opportunity gap. We need to build on this investment to ensure every child gets a great start in Minnesota."

For years, Minnesota has faced persistent achievement gaps. Studies have shown that early learning programs have impressive and long-lasting benefits for low-income students, including increased high school graduation and employment rates, and decreased incarceration rates. Leading researchers and economists have found that these outcomes yield long-term benefits of as much as $16 for every $1 invested in early learning programs. Most of those cost savings are in education, human services, and justice system savings, as well as increased tax revenues.

"We still have a lot of work ahead to address the opportunity gaps that are barriers to many of our children succeeding," said Commissioner Cassellius. "Providing free public access to pre-kindergarten that is high quality, free of charge, and close to home is a great step in the right direction. Looking ahead we will continue building on Minnesota's promise of an equitable and excellent education for all children and that starts with pre-kindergarten for every family that chooses it for their child."

School Districts and Charter Schools Receiving State Funding
This school year, 3,302 Minnesota four-year-olds will gain access to free, voluntary pre-kindergarten. In total, 74 school districts and charter schools will receive funding, including 14 Metro Area districts, 50 Greater Minnesota districts, and 10 charter schools. The program is targeted to Minnesota school districts and charter schools that serve high numbers of low-income students and where there may be limited access to other high-quality pre-kindergarten programs. Below is a full list of this year's pre-kindergarten funding recipients.

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/251633
