Public Statements
Dayton Urges United Nations to Protect Hmong Refugees in Thailand from Human Rights Abuses
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 15, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Urges United Nations to Protect Hmong Refugees in Thailand from Human Rights Abuses
Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Mark Dayton, in a letter to Anne W. Patterson, the Acting Permanent U.S. Representative to the United Nations, asked for U.N. assistance in protecting Hmong refugees in Phetchabun Province, Thailand, from human rights abuses and possible deportation to Laos.
"I am deeply concerned about news reports that the Thai government will forcibly deport the Hmong refugees to Laos in the coming days and weeks," said Dayton in the letter. "Since the Hmong were allies of the United States during the Vietnam War, their return to Laos could result in the imprisonment of many men, women and even children."
The State Department's 2004 Country Report on Human Rights for Laos cited many violations, including the beating, chaining, and torturing of prisoners.
Last week, several news agencies reported the first Hmong refugee casualty, a two-month-old infant, who was forced from her home, along with her parents, by the Thai government. The Thai government has ordered local residents to withhold food and shelter from the Hmong refugees.
In late June, Dayton and two of his Senate colleagues, Herb Kohl (D-Wisc.) and Russell Feingold (D-Wisc.), sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging her to immediately deploy an independent intermediary, such as a delegation from a diplomatic organization, to monitor the Lao government's treatment of Hmong refugees emerging from the jungle.
The full text of Dayton's letter is below.
July 14, 2005
The Honorable Anne W. Patterson
Acting Permanent U.S. Representative to the United Nations
United States Mission to the United Nations
799 U.N. Plaza
New York, New York 10017-3505
Dear Madam Ambassador:
I respectfully request your assistance in urging the United Nations to send a U.N. representative to Phetchabun Province, Thailand, to monitor the treatment of more than 6,500 ethnic Hmong refugees, who were forced out of their homes by the Royal Thai military. According to news reports, the Thai government has issued orders for local villagers to not sell or provide food and shelter to the refugees. As a consequence, a two-month-old child has died.
Moreover, I am deeply concerned about reports that the Thai government will forcibly deport the Hmong to Laos in the coming days and weeks. Since the Hmong were allies of the United States during the Vietnam War, their return to Laos could result in the imprisonment of many men, women and even children. According to the State Department's 2004 Country Report on Human Rights Practices for Laos, the Lao police often beat, chain, and torture prisoners. The Report also cites suspicious disappearances of ethnic Hmong.
I strongly urge the United Nations to send a representative to ensure that the Hmong people are treated humanely, provided with humanitarian assistance, and given due process for asylum status under international law.
Thank you for your consideration of my request.
Sincerely,
Mark Dayton
United States Senator
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=240711&&
