Public Statements
Dayton, Coleman, Peterson, Pawlenty Support Emergency Plan to Aid Livestock Farmers Affected by Kittson County Floods
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 14, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton, Coleman, Peterson, Pawlenty Support Emergency Plan to Aid Livestock Farmers Affected by Kittson County Floods
Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Mark Dayton and Norm Coleman, U.S. Representative Collin Peterson, and Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty today announced their support of an important plan to help livestock farmers in Kittson County. The county has endured flooding due to recent severe storms and heavy rainfall since early May, which has prevented planting and has damaged and destroyed existing crops. The proposal, made by John Monson, Director of the Farm Service Agency for the State of Minnesota, will provide Kittson County farmers with much-needed access to normally restricted acres for livestock grazing.
"Kittson County's farmers have been devastated by natural events resulting in personal hardship and tremendous financial losses," Dayton said. "This proposal will help livestock farmers get through these difficult times, and I will do all that I can to make sure Minnesota's agricultural industry remains the backbone of our state's economy."
"By allowing Kittson County farm families access to CRP acreage earlier and without penalty, we can help alleviate some of the financial stress they are experiencing due to weather conditions completely beyond their control," said Coleman. "I expect USDA will use all its authority to provide disaster help to farm families who desperately need it."
"I think this proposal is a good start that will provide some immediate relief to farmers in the region," Peterson said. "But we will continue to pursue more assistance for these farmers who continue to face weather disasters each year."
"I appreciate the willingness and flexibility USDA has shown in trying to help Kittson County farmers cope with this situation," said Pawlenty. "Allowing for emergency grazing of CRP lands will help alleviate the worst impacts on area livestock producers, and I urge USDA to continue looking for ways to help accommodate our farmers' needs in the coming weeks."
The plan will expand emergency livestock removal provisions of the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) to the entire county. Until now, the provisions have applied only to farmers with livestock in flooded areas. The plan will allow Kittson County farmers, effective immediately, to open up all CRP acres for cattle grazing for 14 days. Farmers will not face payment reductions for grazing livestock on CRP acres, meaning that Kittson County producers will not have to return part of their badly needed CRP payments to the government at a time when many of them are already in financial crisis. The emergency provisions also suspend the requirement that CRP acres only be grazed for one out of three years, thus allowing farmers access to all acreage for forage.
The emergency provisions will remain effective for 14 days, after which an extension can be requested.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=240537&&
