Public Statements
Dayton Calls for Hearing to Investigate USDA's Testing of Contaminated Cattle
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 1, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Calls for Hearing to Investigate USDA's Testing of Contaminated Cattle
Senator says errors, delays in testing have cost USDA credibility.
Washington, D.C.- U.S. Senator Mark Dayton today sent a letter to the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), urging him to hold a hearing investigating the United States Department of Agriculture's response to a recent case of bovine spongiform encephalitis (BSE), commonly known as mad cow disease. On June 24, 2005, USDA announced that an American cow had tested positive for BSE, more than seven months after the animal was slaughtered in Texas. After performing three tests on the animal in November, 2004, which yielded conflicting results, the USDA announced publicly that the animal was not infected. On June 10, USDA retracted that statement and announced the possibility of infection, and on June 24, confirmed that the animal did, in fact, have mad cow disease. This is the first known case of the disease in a domestically born and raised cow.
"The critical misinformation, the delay in correcting it, and the contradictory testing results has damaged public confidence in USDA's reliability and credibility," wrote Dayton in the letter. "Americans deserve our immediate oversight to assure them that their federal government is properly protecting their health and safety."
Dayton requested that both Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns, and USDA Inspector General Phyllis Fong appear as witnesses at the hearing.
USDA banned the importation of Canadian beef in May, 2003, after a cow infected with BSE was discovered in Alberta, Canada. A second case of BSE was reported in Ottawa, Canada, in December, 2004.
Below is the text of Senator Dayton's letter:
July 1, 2005
The Honorable Saxby Chambliss
Chairman
Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, and Nutrition
United States Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510
Dear Mr. Chairman:
I respectfully request that our Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry conduct a hearing, immediately following the Independence Day recess, on the recently confirmed case of bovine spongiform encephalitis (BSE) in an animal slaughtered in Texas in November 2004. I request as witnesses Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns and USDA Inspector General Phyllis Fong. I also request that Secretary Johanns attend enough of the hearing so that all Senators present have an opportunity to question him.
News reports to date about the incident raise unanswered questions about USDA's actions and timetable and also serious concerns about the agency's adequacy and speed. On November 23, 2004, USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service stated publicly, "Negative results from both IHC tests make us confident that the animal in question is indeed negative for BSE." That error was not corrected publicly until June 10, 2005.
Moreover, American producers and consumers are rightfully alarmed by the seven months between those two statements and the even greater time from the animal's slaughter to USDA's public notification of its disease. The critical misinformation, the delay in correcting it, and the contradictory testing results has damaged public confidence in USDA's reliability and credibility. Americans deserve our immediate oversight to assure them that their federal government is properly protecting their health and safety. The citizens and governments in other countries must also be immediately reassured about the adequacy of USDA's safeguards and testing and the trustworthiness of its public statements, so that they retain their confidence in the quality of American beef products.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your attention to my request.
My best regards.
Sincerely,
Mark Dayton
cc: The Honorable Tom Harkin, Ranking Member
Members, Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=240146&&
