Public Statements
Passage of the Senate Energy Bill
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 30, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Passage of the Senate Energy Bill
The Senate recently passed its Energy Bill, which provides modest, but important, incentives for alternative energy development. The bill extends both the biodiesel tax credit and the renewable energy production tax credit. It directs that at least 10 percent of our country's electricity in the year 2020 will be generated by renewable energy resources.
It also requires that nationwide use of ethanol will double to eight billion gallons, an amount projected to be almost 5 percent of total gasoline consumption, by 2012. That percentage will still be only half of Minnesota's requirement for the past nine years that every gallon of regular gasoline contain 10 percent ethanol.
Unfortunately, our country's transition to different energy sources is far behind the urgency of our energy predicament. If all of the measures in the Senate's legislation are implemented, our country's consumption of gasoline is still expected to increase by 26 percent during the next seven years. Our reliance on imported foreign oil will also continue to rise. With oil prices at record-high levels and worldwide demand expected to grow significantly in the years ahead, we are gambling our country's economic future on our ability to continue to buy more and more of the world's oil at affordable prices. It is a risky bet.
Nevertheless, the opposition of major energy industries to our development of significant energy alternatives is fierce. They continue to profit from higher prices for their energy supplies. Those higher energy prices, however, are devastating to business owners, farmers, motorists, senior citizens, and most Americans.
The big energy industries' ability to derail any threats to their profiting from higher energy prices was illustrated by the fate of one proposal to attack the source of record high world oil prices that are afflicting our country. I cosponsored the amendment, proposed by Ohio's Republican Senator Mike DeWine, which authorized the U.S. Department of Justice to take antitrust actions against OPEC, the cartel of Middle East oil-producing countries, who act together to set and maintain the world price for oil. This amendment had strong bipartisan support including the Republican Chairmen of the Senate Finance and Judiciary Committees. Our amendment authorized and urged the Bush Administration to stand up for Americans against the anti-free trade, anti-fair trade, price-fixing practices of the OPEC cartel.
After the amendment's authors presented their case for it, the Republican Senator in charge of the bill responded:
"Mr. President, obviously, I am letting this amendment proceed, but, frankly, I do not think the amendment should be on this bill... After the amendment is adopted by voice vote, I will tell the Senate and those interested what is going to happen to the amendment."
(The amendment was agreed to.)
Senator Domenici continued, "I thank Senator DeWine for accommodating us tonight and for his good intention. I wish we could do something and accomplish what he wanted to do today. I want everybody to know because we had a voice vote and accepted this amendment, we will go to conference with the House. It should be clearly understood that the House does not have anything like this. I want everybody to know that this amendment is going to have to be bundled up with this bill. Those are the rules. But it might get lost between the floor and the time we get over to the Senate, and we may not be able to find it when we get over there, just so everybody understands what the fate of this amendment is. But it has been adopted."
I know from too many experiences that Committee Chairmen use the House-Senate Conference Committees to discard amendments which are not to their liking. They meet behind closed doors since, unlike Minnesota, Washington, D.C. does not have an Open Meeting Law. Thus, it is often impossible to know who dropped, or added, particular provisions in the final bill.
However, this statement on the Senate floor by the Senator who chairs the Energy Committee, and who will thus chair the group of Senators on the Conference Committee, showed brazen contempt for the action just taken by the full Senate to pass the amendment. He referred to the House Republican leaders' opposition to the amendment, which was a sure sign that the Bush Administration also opposed it. Tragically, they would rather protect the OPEC cartel, the participating international oil companies, and their control over world oil prices, than defend the American economy and our citizens. Even more tragically, they are able to do so and still get reelected by majorities of the Americans they are supposed to represent, but have abandoned.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=240057&&
