Public Statements
Dayton Votes for Passage of Senate Energy Bill - But Cautions it will not Remedy America's Dependence on Foreign Oil
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 28, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Votes for Passage of Senate Energy Bill - But Cautions it will not Remedy America's Dependence on Foreign Oil
Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Mark Dayton today voted for the Energy Bill (H.R. 6), which includes provisions to increase the use of renewable energy, but indicated it was inadequate in addressing the nation's reliance on foreign oil. The Senate's version of the bill, which passed 85 to 12, will now go to the joint House and Senate Conference Committee. The National Farmers Union supports the Senate's version of the bill.
"The Senate Energy bill provides modest, but important, incentives for alternative energy development," said Dayton. "It extends both the biodiesel and the renewable energy production tax credits. It mandates that at least 10 percent of our country's electricity be generated from renewable energy sources, by 2020.
"It also requires that nationwide use of ethanol double, to almost 5 percent of gasoline consumption, by 2012, though that will still be only half of Minnesota's nine-year-old 10 percent ethanol mandate.
"In the face of record-high oil prices and increasing worldwide demand, the Senate's bill is woefully inadequate. Our reliance on imported foreign oil will continue to grow; national consumption of gasoline is estimated to increase by 26 percent, over the next seven years. Our country's energy progress remains far behind the urgency of our energy predicament."
Last week, Dayton took to the Senate floor to push for a 10 percent ethanol requirement for all gasoline sold in the United States, by the year 2015, to counteract U.S. dependence on foreign oil. Dayton drew from Minnesota's ethanol mandate legislation when offering his E-10 amendment (S. Amdt. 790) to the Senate's Energy bill (HR 6). Dayton withdrew his amendment shortly after introducing it, saying that the country was not ready for an ethanol standard as high as Minnesota's E-10.
In further support of increased use of ethanol, Dayton voted for the Renewable Fuels Standard amendment (S.Amdt. 791), which passed late last week. It would double - to at least eight billion gallons per year - the amount of ethanol and biodiesel in the nation's fuel supply, by 2012. Minnesota, one of the nation's leading producers of corn-based ethanol, stands to benefit greatly from this legislation, which would help create new jobs and increase sales for this local, billion-dollar industry.
Dayton also pushed for the wind power Production Tax Credit (PTC) which will increase U.S. wind power production and create thousands of jobs, while generating additional income for rural areas. The Senate version also extends the biodiesel tax credit for three additional years and supports the Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS), which ensures that at least 10 percent of the nation's electricity comes from renewable energy sources, such as wind power, hydrogen, solar power, and biomass.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=239694&&
