Public Statements
Testimony of Senator Mark Dayton at the BRAC Regional Hearing in Grand Forks
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 24, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Testimony of Senator Mark Dayton at the BRAC Regional Hearing in Grand Forks
Testimony: Grand Forks Air Force Base
Thank you very much. Last time I was applauded in North Dakota was 41 years ago, as the Minnesota hockey goalie. Unfortunately, playing at Grand Forks, they applauded when I let the shots in, not when I stopped them! We in Minnesota, being the neighbor to the east, are very proud also of the Grand Forks Air Force Base. And we contribute, as citizens, as employees, as Americans together, on behalf of this excellence. And we rely, as part of the region, on those 4,000 jobs, the $380 million in annual wages, benefits, expenditures, taxes, charitable contributions. Those economic, social, and human benefits are, as MasterCard would say, priceless in North Dakota and in Minnesota. And, conversely, their loss would be just as catastrophic. The Department of Defense estimates that this proposal would cost this region 2,200 of the 2,900 active-duty military personnel currently at the Air Force base and almost 5,000 total jobs. That would be 7.5% of all the jobs in this economic area. That percentage of job loss would be equal to eliminating all the federal government in the Washington D.C. area, which would probably be a more popular proposal here! Most of the Air Force Base's annual $380 million in direct economic contributions to this area would also be lost. Severe as those numbers are, they understate the devastation that the Pentagon's proposal would inflict on this region's people and everything that they have here. I served twice as the head of the Minnesota Department of Economic Development in the 1970s and 1980s, and for one term as State Auditor in the 1990s, auditing local government. I have seen cities' largest employers shut down, causing hundreds, even thousands of people to lose their jobs. The devastating effects on those good men and women, their families, the communities, schools, churches go far beyond the numbers. In this instance, the men and women here, Minnesotans and North Dakotans, are good, honest, hardworking, and, at the Grand Forks Air Force Base, especially patriotic Americans. They have done everything they have been asked to do. They have given their best to protect their country, and they have done it extremely well. They don't deserve to lose their jobs, their livelihoods, and their mission, through no fault or choice of their own. Anywhere in this country, if the largest employer leaves, will be hit hard by that loss and face the hard road to recovery. But it is even harder in a region like this, with longer transportation routes, higher energy costs, harsher weather conditions, and other adverse factors that, altogether, make replacing 5,000 lost jobs extremely difficult. And that's exactly why the terrific Minnesotans and North Dakotans who live and work here have done in the past, and will continue to do, all that is necessary for this Air Force Base to succeed, to change in times, and to continue to excel. Because if North Dakota and Minnesota did not have the best, most productive, well-educated, and highly motivated people in the country and the world, and I say that not with provincial pride, but because the state by state educational achievement records support it time after time. The two best achieving states educationally in the country are right here; and if they were not here, there would not be the base or much else here that would be successful. But, fortunately, they are here. Men and women who are asking not what their country can do for them but, rather, what they can continue to do for the country. I am asking to continue to make the Grand Forks Air Force Base as essential to our national security as it has been in the past and as outstanding in its national service as it can be, and should be, for many years to come. Thank you.
Testimony: Duluth Air Station The Duluth Air National Guard Base's future and state are independent and not competitive with Grand Forks. But, we share their enthusiasm for the outstanding work being done by the Air National Guard. In my four and a half years as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I have seen many surprises. This is one of the most unfair, because it affects so many men and women. The proposed changes are not contained in the BRAC Commission recommendations, but in the Future Total Force Plan. Therefore, I would ask that, as Members of Congress, we be given latitude to work with the Air Force and the Army National Guard.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=239549&&
