Public Statements
Energy Policy Act Of 2005--Continued
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 21, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2005--Continued -- (Senate - June 21, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
[AMENDMENT NO. 790]
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, we have been talking about the laudable goals of recycling, our Nation's dependency on foreign oil, and developing alternative sources of energy. The old saying goes, actions speak louder than words. Our current energy program and practices are taking this country in the opposite direction--toward increased imports of foreign oil.
Even with the renewable fuel standard in the Senate bill, which some want to eliminate, the projected gasoline consumption in our country will increase from 135 billion gallons this year to 168 billion gallons in 2012. That is a 26-percent increase in America's use of gasoline in just 7 years. At a time that worldwide demand is also expected to increase significantly, where we will get the increased supplies? How much will we have to pay for them?
As my colleague, Senator Cantwell from Washington State, courageously warned last week, even with the adoption of the Senate's renewable fuel standard, our imports of foreign oil would increase from 59 percent currently to 62 percent in 2012. Without adopting the Senate renewable fuel standard, our oil imports would be over 67 percent in just 7 years.
Taking yesterday's world price for oil, which was over $59 a barrel, we will spend $220 billion this year for foreign imports of oil, and we would spend $243 billion in 2012, even with the renewable fuel standard. Anyone who believes the world price of oil in 2012 will not be higher than it is today is beyond optimistic.
Of course, if we can continue to get all the oil we need at today's prices or lower, we would have no need to develop alternatives. That has been our national energy strategy today. People say we do not have an energy policy. I respectfully disagree. Our policy has been and continues to be to maintain the status quo for as long as possible. We continue to depend almost entirely upon oil and oil products, natural gas and its products, coal, nuclear, and hydroelectric power for over 97 percent of our total energy needs nationwide, just as we did in 1970 before our so-called energy crisis began.
The so-called alternative fuels provided less than 2 percent of our country's energy in 1970. They provide less than 3 percent today. None of them are likely to provide significantly more of our total supply 10 or even 20 years from now except for ethanol and other biofuels such as biodiesel. That is why we do not see full-page ads attacking solar, wind, or geothermal energy by the Petroleum Institute or other major energy sources, because they know the alternatives are no threat to replace them anytime soon.
The only alternative source of energy the American Petroleum Institute is attacking is ethanol. Why is that huge industry, oil and gas special interest, spreading misinformation about a business competitor? Because they recognize that ethanol has the ability--not just potential but the ability now, not 10, 20, or 40 years from now but right now--to replace gasoline, to replace not just MTBE, the--3 percent additive to regular gasoline, but to replace the gasoline itself.
I know that from my own experience driving a Ford Explorer that has run on a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline all over Minnesota during the past 3 years. My Senate office leased a van that has run on the 85 percent fuel for the last 4 years. Both vehicles have factory-made flexible-fuel engines which can run on the 85-percent ethanol or on regular unleaded gasoline or any mixture of the two. However, for the past 9 years, every car, SUV, or pickup truck in Minnesota has run on a blend of 90 percent gasoline and 10 percent ethanol.
The courageous Republican Governor, Arne Carlson, and the Minnesota Legislature passed a 10-percent ethanol mandate law. Back then, the oil and gas industries tried the same scare tactics they are using on Capitol Hill now: More ethanol will be prohibitively expensive, unsafe, and unreliable. But for the last 9 years, every motorist in Minnesota has put a gasoline containing 10 percent ethanol into every vehicle at every service station with no problems and at prices that are lower than our neighboring States. Just 2 weeks ago, I bought E85 fuel in 11 Minnesota cities at prices ranging from 25 to 70 cents a gallon less than regular unleaded gasoline. Unleaded gas costs between $1.90 and $2.05 a gallon and E85 between $1.35 and $1.65 a gallon.
I have introduced legislation that will require all of the gasoline-consuming cars, SUVs, and trucks sold in America after 2008 to have these flex-fuel engines which would give their owners the choice between ethanol and gasoline every time they fueled up. Every time, consumers could choose the lower priced option, and that consumer choice would provide healthy competition for both fuels.
Certainly there are other good reasons to buy ethanol instead of gasoline, such as putting that money into the pockets of American farmers rather than Arab sheiks or using a cleaner burning ethanol fuel that is better for engines and the environment. However, the automobile industry will not support such an engine requirement because not enough consumers ask for it or insist upon those flex-fuel engines, even though on most models there is no difference to consumers in the sticker price. Without consumer demand, most service stations do not yet carry E85 fuel.
When I visited Ford and General Motors plants recently to better understand their challenges and costs in designing, producing, and selling vehicles with flex-fuel engines, I told their engineer and executives that the transition to fleets with flex-fuel engines could only occur with their support, not over their opposition. After all, they make the engines, warranty them, and service them. I was greatly impressed with their success in designing and manufacturing those engines that can measure the ethanol content in a fuel tank from 0 to 85 percent and adjust the fuel intake and carburetor to burn a more dense 87 octane gasoline or a less dense 104 octane ethanol, or any blend of the two, and then produce the same acceleration efficiency and other performances from either fuel.
If E85, without its tax subsidies, now equivalent to 43 cents a gallon, and after accounting for its 15-percent fewer miles per gallon because of its lesser density, is still cheaper than regular unleaded gas, which it is at its current price in many parts of Minnesota, then savvy consumers, of whom there are now 100,000 in Minnesota, will decide they, too, are sick of ever higher and higher gasoline prices and they, too, want to take advantage of ethanol's lower cost and equal, if not better, performance in their engines. Then when consumers ask for and insist upon flex-fuel engines at no additional cost in the vehicles they buy, automobile manufacturers will produce them. A marketplace will drive that transition. My bill would accelerate it, but this Congress and this country are not yet ready for that conversion.
My other legislation, Senate amendment No. 790, would have an even greater impact on our country's energy independence, on reducing our imports of foreign oil, on putting more of that $220 billion we now send out of our country to import that foreign oil into our U.S. economy instead.
This bill would require that in 10 years, the rest of America would do what Minnesota has done for the past 9 years--require that every gallon of gasoline contain at least 10 percent ethanol. Right now, the nationwide use of ethanol is about 2.5 percent of gasoline. The Senate's renewable fuel standard in this bill would raise nationwide ethanol consumption to almost 5 percent of gasoline by 2012--an amount of gasoline which I said earlier is expected to be 26 percent more than what we are consuming this year nationwide.
For the gasoline that is refined from that oil, 62 percent of which would be imported foreign oil with our renewable fuel standard, replacing 5 percent of that gasoline with ethanol is real progress, but it is small progress. It is only half of what we could achieve by a 10-percent ethanol mandate nationwide. Ten percent of the 168 billion gallons of gasoline that Americans are projected to consume in 2012 would be 16.8 billion gallons of fuel. If gasoline remained at $2 a gallon, substituting ethanol for 10 percent would shift almost $34 billion each year from a nonrenewable fuel, over half of it foreign, to annually rely on American grown and American manufactured oil that could supply over half of all that oil and gasoline.
Now we see why the American Petroleum Institute is attacking ethanol and why, regrettably, it has convinced some of my Senate colleagues to do the same. I am deeply dismayed by accusations made in the Senate that I and other ethanol proponents are trying to foist some huge additional costs on American motorists in order to increase the profits of one company or to create some profits for our Midwestern farmers. I am beholden to no company or industry. I certainly support policies that benefit Minnesota farmers, but I would never, ever try to advance their economic interests at the expense of all other Americans.
Americans are almost certain to be plagued by higher energy prices in the years ahead. They do not deserve any congressional action that would cause those prices to go even higher. Americans do, however, want congressional leadership to redirect our country away from our continued reliance on the same energy sources--oil, natural gas, coal, and nuclear--and they know we cannot replace something with nothing.
It is true that conservation--using less energy--remains our best energy alternative. Individually and collectively, Americans will need to conserve more and consume less energy in the future. That conservation is essential, but it is not enough. If we are to reduce our national consumption of oil and oil products, we will have to replace them with something else. Electric cars, hydrogen cells, and hybrids may sound good, but they are years away from being able to replace gasoline. Ethanol can replace gasoline today.
Ethanol is cheaper than gasoline in Minnesota today. That may not yet be true on the west coast or the east coast due to transportation costs because most ethanol is transported in relatively small amounts by truck or by rail rather than in large quantities by pipelines.
A nationwide commitment to increased use of ethanol would involve developing a transportation system or, better yet, producing ethanol locally, as Minnesota farm co-ops are doing today.
Ethanol can be made from many different sources, including wood chips, corn stalks, organic garbage, and even animal waste. I will rejoice when California, New York, and other farmers and small business entrepreneurs begin to produce ethanol and sell it locally or regionally. They can make decent profits while still offering consumers lower fuel prices for cleaner burning fuels. If they fail to do so, consumers can continue to buy gasoline, but they will have a choice.
Again, none of this would be necessary if we could continue to get all the oil and gasoline we need at prices no higher than they are today. In the past, we have taken that gamble, and most of the time we have come out ahead. That is evidently what we will continue to do, despite the benefits of this legislation, even if those benefits survive a conference with the House and the administration and if they survive all the efforts to defeat them by the American Petroleum Institute and the other established energy interests because they will still make their profits, no matter how much their energy prices increase, as long as Americans have no alternatives.
They profit and the rest of us pay. That will not change unless we take action to change it. We cannot, and we will not, change our dependence on foreign oil or on any of our current energy sources by wishing them away or by making speeches about alternatives or by waiting for the next energy crisis to demand them. We have to take actions--and sustain those actions--to make the transition to using significant amounts of other sources of energy and to use enough of them for long enough to enable new entrepreneurs and expanding businesses to produce those supplies, transport them, sell them, and service them.
There is no magic wand. There is no overnight cure. There is not even a guaranteed success. There is only the choice to try to maintain the same old energy supplies and pay for them or to develop real alternatives. Ethanol is ready now. And when America is ready, I will offer my amendments again.
AMENDMENT NO. 790 WITHDRAWN
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw amendment No. 790.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
