Public Statements
Dayton Requests Hearings on Defense Secretary's Proposal to Realign Duluth Air National Guard Base
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 16, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Requests Hearings on Defense Secretary's Proposal to Realign Duluth Air National Guard Base
Proposal to retire F-16s may impact hundreds of Minnesota jobs
U.S. Senator Mark Dayton today sent a letter to Senator John Warner, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Armed Services, and a second letter to Anthony J. Principi, Chairman of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC), requesting that each hold a hearing to examine a proposal by U.S. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld to realign 23 Air National Guard bases, including the Duluth Air National Guard base. The letter is signed by a bipartisan group of 26 Senators.
Under the current proposal, the Duluth base would lose its F-16s, which would be retired starting in fiscal year 2007. The Air Force has indicated that Duluth would be given a follow-on mission, and, therefore, manpower on the base would not be decreased. However, community leaders in Duluth, and around the country, remain skeptical.
"I strongly support the request for hearings on the Secretary of Defense's proposal," said Dayton. "It would have a devastating effect on Minnesota's outstanding Air National Guard Fighter Wing, dedicated Guardsmen and women, and their families."
Dayton requested that the Armed Services Committee and the BRAC Commission each conduct a hearing on the proposal, because the new concept outlined has not been examined by anyone outside the Pentagon. There has been no additional analysis of how the plan would affect the country's ability to meet wartime requirements. Nor has a comprehensive analysis been completed to determine whether the Defense proposal is the most cost-effective choice. Some reports show that Guard units have lower flying-hour costs and higher mission-capability rates than their active-duty counterparts, whose missions are similar.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=239018&&
