Public Statements
E-85 Awareness Week in Minnesota
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 8, 2005
Location: Unknown


E-85 Awareness Week in Minnesota
During the recent Senate recess, I held "E-85 Awareness" events in seven Minnesota cities, to highlight the advantages of that fuel, which is 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. (I rode everywhere in my own Ford Explorer, which uses E-85.) That week, a gallon of E-85 cost 25 cents to 60 cents less than a gallon of regular, unleaded gasoline in those southern Minnesota cities.
To use that lower cost fuel, you need a sedan, SUV, or pickup with a "flexible-fuel" engine, which is a factory-made engine that can use either regular (87 octane) unleaded gasoline, E-85, or any combination of the two. According to Mn/DOT, about 100,000 vehicles in Minnesota presently have flexible-fuel engines; yet, only a fraction of their owners use E-85 fuel. So, one purpose of my events was to make those owners aware of E-85's lower prices and encourage more of them to take advantage of those savings.
Another goal was to reach some owners of vehicles with flexible-fuel engines who are not aware that they have those engines. By consulting their owner's manuals or, in some cases their fuel caps, they can find out whether they, too, can take advantages of E-85's lower prices.
I also wanted to encourage people who are considering buying new or used vehicles now or in the future to be aware of the advantages of flexible-fuel engines. Most manufacturers of sedans, SUV's, and pickups produce one or more models with flexible-fuel engines. In most cases, those engines are available at no additional cost to buyers. From my own experiences with my Ford Explorer during the past three years and from my discussions with many other Minnesotans who are using E-85, I can attest to overwhelmingly positive experiences. Vehicle performances have been as good - often better - with E-85 fuel as with unleaded gasoline. The acceleration in my Explorer with a flexible-fuel engine using E-85 has been slightly faster than my previous Explorer with a gasoline-only engine, perhaps because E-85 burns at about 96 octane, compared with regular gasoline's 87 octane. Actual miles per gallon is typically less with E-85 than gasoline, because it is a less dense fuel, which requires E-85 to be at least 15 percent to 20 percent cheaper in order to provide overall savings. When E-85 costs 25 percent to 35 percent less than gasoline, as it has recently in Minnesota, that means real savings!
The best advantage from vehicles with a flexible-fuel engine is the choice that owners always have between ethanol or gasoline fuels. They can always choose the lower price fuel, since either one can be used interchangeably with the other.
Minnesotans who are unsure if the vehicles they presently own have flexible-fuel engines, or who are considering future purchases, can either consult with their dealers or check my web site (www.dayton.senate.gov), which lists those models and years.
Obviously, consumers should choose the fuel which is best for their vehicles and their pocketbooks. There are, however, great benefits to our state and our nation, when they choose ethanol over gasoline. One out of every seven barrels of oil produced in the world presently goes into an American gas tank. Our country currently spends over $115 billion a year to import foreign oil, much of which is used for gasoline. If half or more of that gasoline consumption went to American ethanol instead, it would redirect $60 billion or more annually from foreign oil producers to American farmers and ethanol co-ops.
Last summer, ethanol manufacturing plants in Minnesota typically increased local prices of corn by 10 cents to 15 cents per bushel. Those higher market prices meant more money for farmers and, thus, less in subsidy costs for taxpayers. A healthier farm economy means better business for the businesses on every Main Street in Greater Minnesota.
Since ethanol is a cleaner burning fuel than gasoline, its increased use is better for vehicle engines and for our environment. Thus, ethanol's benefits to farmers' incomes, area economies, cleaner air, and energy independence make it a "grand slam" for our state and nation!
You, too, can "fuel change," now or in the future. If you presently have a vehicle that can run on E-85, please consider its advantages over gasoline whenever you fuel up. If you buy a new or used sedan, SUV, or pickup, please ask for a flexible-fuel engine. You will, thus, give yourself the choice between E-85 and gasoline every time you purchase fuel in the future; and that competition will help keep the prices of both fuels lower in the years ahead.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=238556&&
