Public Statements
Dayton Completes Statewide Tour of E-85 Stations in Effort to Promote Greater Use of Cheaper, Environmentally Friendly Homegrown Fuel
By: Mark Dayton
Date: June 6, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Completes Statewide Tour of E-85 Stations in Effort to Promote Greater Use of Cheaper, Environmentally Friendly Homegrown Fuel
Driving his ethanol-powered SUV, Dayton visited E-85 gas stations, pumped gas for local residents.
U.S. Senator Mark Dayton today completed his three-day tour of gas stations selling E-85 throughout Minnesota, which included stops in Minneapolis, Austin, Luverne, Mankato, Marshall, Rochester, and Worthington, to promote the 85 percent ethanol-blended fuel, known as E-85. While pumping gas for area residents, Dayton pitched the merits of E-85 fuel as a less expensive, environmentally sound alternative to conventional gasoline. At each of his stops, Dayton also presented a new feature of his official Senate web site, which allows Minnesotans to determine whether their own vehicles are E-85 compatible and to locate E-85-supplied gas stations in their area.
"Today, I completed a tour across southern Minnesota to promote the use of E-85 fuel," said Dayton. "Any Minnesotan looking to buy a new vehicle should be sure to ask for a flexible fuel engine, which runs on E-85, because the price of gas is going to keep increasing while ethanol continues to be a cheaper alternative. Instead of spending $115 billion yearly on foreign oil, we can put that money back into the pockets of Minnesota farmers by buying this corn-based fuel.
"Minnesotans can buy the vehicles they like to drive and fill up with homegrown fuel that's more energy efficient, more environmentally friendly, cheaper, and potentially more beneficial for our rural economy rather than continuing to depend on fuel from foreign countries. It's a grand slam; but, so far, we haven't managed to get to first base."
Last month, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed Dayton's amendment requiring automobile manufacturers to display a decal on the gas tanks and windshields of E-85-compatible vehicles effective in 2007, showing their capability for running on the alternative fuel. Dayton has also introduced two other pieces of legislation, the Freedom from Foreign Oil Act, which would require all vehicles, beginning in model year 2007, to be E-85 compatible; and the Renewable Fuels Standard, which would add eight billion gallons of ethanol to the nation's gasoline supply, each year, effective the same year.
