Public Statements
Dayton Works to Maintain Rural Ambulance Services for Minnesotans in Need of Care
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 24, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Works to Maintain Rural Ambulance Services for Minnesotans in Need of Care
Today, U.S. Senator Mark Dayton joined with Senator Trent Lott (R-MS) to introduce the Medicare Ambulance Payment Reform and Rural Equity Act, which would increase reimbursements from Medicare for rural ambulance service providers. The current rate of reimbursement is forcing many providers nationwide to close their doors, including three in Minnesota over the past three years alone.
"When people in Minnesota and across the country suffer a medical emergency like a heart attack or stroke, they want to know that lifesaving ambulance service is available for them," Dayton said. "However, current Medicare policies and procedures jeopardize quality ambulance service, causing many providers to struggle to stay in business - especially in rural communities. Putting patients' health and wellbeing at risk is unacceptable. My legislation addresses problems that threaten ambulance service for patients in Minnesota and across the country."
The legislation would provide relief for both urban and rural ambulance providers that treat Medicare patients, by reimbursing providers in amounts closer to the actual cost of providing services. The bill would also establish a separate reimbursement formula for rural ambulance providers.
According to the Minnesota Ambulance Association, Minnesota ambulance providers will lose more than $70 million in revenues in 2006, due to changes in Medicare's regulations and reimbursement formula for ambulance services.
Gary Wingrove, an official at the Minnesota Ambulance Association said "As many ambulance service providers nationwide struggle to remain in business, we are extremely proud that Senator Dayton has taken the lead in trying to fix the Medicare ambulance payment problem. Minnesota's ambulance providers need cost-based reimbursement, in order to continue the high level of care we deliver every day."
The legislation is supported by the American Ambulance Association.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=238126&&
