Public Statements
Executive Session
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 20, 2005
Location: Wahington, DC


EXECUTIVE SESSION
BREAK IN TRNASCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I commend the distinguished Senator from Vermont whose independence and wisdom has been demonstrated in this body in the time I have been here. Some of what I am about to say will echo what he more eloquently said.
I spoke earlier this week about why the elimination of the filibuster on judicial nominations would be ill advised as a matter of policy and why violating the existing Senate rule which governs how we can properly change the Senate's rules of procedures should be unthinkable and would be unconscionable. It would set a terribly damaging precedent for this great institution, damage that would be permanent and irreparable, a precedent that the existing rules and procedures of the Senate can at any time and for any reason or for no reason be disregarded or changed or a new rule added by a majority vote of the Senators present at that time. Just make a motion to the Presiding Officer, who could ignore the advice of the Senate's professional Parliamentarian, make his or her own ruling, and a majority vote would either uphold or overturn that decision.
That essentially means the majority of this body at any time can do whatever they want to do, however they want to do it, as long as they ratify it by their own majority vote. None of the rules of procedure would have any permanent standing or reliability, no matter how long they have been in existence.
If the majority of Senators decides it does not like those rules of procedure, or if they cannot get the results they want by following them and they can just disregard them or change them any time and then vote themselves right by doing so, we have lost the integrity of this institution. What kind of society would we have if that precedent, reestablished here, became standard operating procedure by our fellow citizens all over this land?
Another point I would like to raise, after listening for the last couple days
[Page: S5567]
to the stated reasons by the proponents of this so-called nuclear option, is that many of them say the U.S. Constitution's advice and consent clause requires an up-or-down vote by the full Senate. I raise this point respectfully and seriously because each of us, the day we take office as a Senator, takes a sworn oath right here in the Senate Chamber, right in front of our family, our friends, and the American people, administered by the Vice President of the United States, with our hand on the Bible. And that oath says in part:
I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States. .....
It goes on to say:
..... I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same.
And it ends with our saying:
..... so help me God.
I know for myself that was the most serious and important oath I have ever taken, and I believe that every other Member of this Senate is as fully committed to upholding that oath as I am and is acting now and wants to continue to act in all good faith to uphold it at all times.
We sometimes have honest differences in our views of what particular words in the Constitution mean and what they instruct us to do. Those honest differences have arisen since this body commenced its work on March 4, 1789, sometimes between Members of the two parties, sometimes between Members of the same party, sometimes between Members of different parts of the country, or those representing large States and small States, and for many other legitimate reasons.
In most of our actions and decisions in the Senate, our interpretations of the words of the Constitution and our application of those words individually and as a collective body will be reviewed and can be tempered or even rejected by other public officials and institutions.
All the legislation we pass must be agreed to by the House, must be agreed to by the President or vetoed by him, and overridden with a two-thirds vote here and in the House. Then, if properly challenged by someone with legal standing, it can be further reviewed as to constitutionality by Federal courts and, as the ultimate arbiter of constitutionality, the U.S. Supreme Court.
So with all the legislation we act upon and most other matters that come before us, our constitutional understandings, interpretations, and applications are subjected to a rigorous process of checks and balances.
Those checks and balances, however, do not exist for Senate approval or disapproval of Presidential nominees because the Constitution clearly and explicitly authorizes the Senate and the House, each of those bodies, to determine the rules of their proceedings. Previous Federal courts have ruled those words mean exactly what they clearly say.
The Constitution then defines this proceeding we are engaged in now as ``the advice and consent of the Senate.'' That wording, its meaning, and its intent are unfortunately much less clear. The section of the Constitution says in its entirety the President ``shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the Supreme Court, and all other Officers of the United States, whose Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by law; but the Congress may by Law vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments.''
That means almost everyone in the Federal Government is subject to the advice and consent of the Senate unless Congress, by law, chooses to waive that requirement for specified ``inferior''--that is the Constitution's word, not mine--officers. That is why as members of the Armed Services Committee we regularly report to the full Senate rosters of ``appointments,'' most of which are promotions, of 2,000, 3,000, over 4,000 officers in the U.S. Armed Forces. They must then be approved, and they usually are approved en bloc by the full Senate.
Proponents of the nuclear option are saying this clause of the Constitution, particularly the words ``advice and consent,'' requires that every Presidential judicial nominee gets an up-or-down vote by the full Senate. If that is the view of the majority of the Senate, how can it not also apply equally to every other nomination described in that section of the Constitution?
The Constitution, the section I just read, makes no distinction in defining our role and responsibility to advice and consent between Presidential nominees for executive branch or judicial offices. It makes no distinction between term limited or lifetime appointments, and it gives us no authority to make those distinctions either, except that by law we cannot require the Senate to approve certain lower level positions.
As I understand the majority leader's intention for next week, just from published reports I have read, he will ask the Presiding Officer of the Senate to rule that the Constitution's words ``advice and consent'' require an up-or-down vote by the full Senate--on all Presidential nominations covered by those words in the Constitution? No, I think that is not the case. Only for judicial nominations. Would that ruling, that constitutional requirement of an up-or-down vote by the full Senate, apply then to all judicial nominations that come to the Senate? No, not as I understand it; not to those that are blocked by the Judiciary Committee, not to those that are blocked by the custom--it is not even a written rule or procedure in the Senate--that two Senators, sometimes only one Senator, in the majority, can prevent any vote by anyone, a committee or the full Senate, on a Presidential nominee.
Where, I ask my colleagues in favor of the nuclear option, who contend the Constitution requires this up-or-down vote by the full Senate, where does the Constitution permit the Senate leadership or a Senate committee or one Senator to make those distinctions between one judicial nominee or another or between judicial nominees and other Presidential nominees in that same section of the Constitution?
I believe the ambiguity in the meaning of the term ``advice and consent'' certainly provides us with reasonable latitude in defining what that term requires the Senate to do. It does not, however, permit us to apply one definition to one group of nominees and apply a different definition, and therefore different Senate rules and procedures, to the other nominees to which those same words equally apply.
Every Senator here is entitled to his or her own views about filibusters. Whether they are good or bad instruments of public policy, they are properly debatable. They are entitled to their own views. We are each entitled, within far greater constraints, to our own best conscientious interpretation of the Constitution, especially words or clauses where well-informed and well-intentioned people can reasonably differ. We are not entitled, however--in fact we are forbidden--to rewrite, reinterpret, selectively apply, or ignore those words just because we do not like them or agree with them. We have sworn an oath to uphold, to support, and defend them, every one of them. If we disagree with them, if we believe they are not right for our constituents and our country, we have the right to change them. But, according to the rules and the procedures in the Constitution, we do not have the right to change them otherwise; just as we have the right to change Senate rules and procedures, but only by following the rules in the Senate to do so.
Following the rules, obeying the laws, upholding the Constitution--those are the foundation of our country. At a time when we are demonstrating to other parts of the world, other countries and citizens, how to set up democracies and make them successful and make them survive and thrive, we will make a tragic, terrible error if we violate those founding, fundamental principles ourselves. The country and the world will be watching next week to see what we do.
I yield the floor.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
