Public Statements
Minnesota, North Dakota Senators Request Military Base Closure Hearing in Grand Forks; Base Realignment Predicted to Cost Area Nearly 5,000 Jobs
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 18, 2005
Location: Washington, DC

Minnesota, North Dakota Senators Request Military Base Closure Commission Hearing in Grand Forks; Base Realignment Predicted to Cost Area Nearly 5,000 Jobs
Senators Mark Dayton (D-MN), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), and Kent Conrad (D-ND) sent a letter to Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) Chairman Anthony J. Principi, requesting a hearing in the Grand Forks/East Grand Forks area on the Pentagon's recommendations to realign the Grand Forks Air Force Base.
The Senators argue that the Grand Forks Air Force base remains uniquely qualified for a strong tanker mission and other flying missions, given its central location, lack of competing commercial air traffic, and modern condition. The Senators are committed to explaining to the BRAC Commission the viability of the base to both our national defense goals and to the area's economy.
If implemented, the Pentagon's recommendation to move the base's tankers could result in the direct loss of 2,645 jobs and the indirect loss of 2,284 more -- resulting in a 7.4 percent reduction in the region's employment. Given these serious economic consequences, the Senators have asked that the Grand Forks-East Grand Forks area be the site of one of the hearings that will be held in areas deemed most adversely affected by the BRAC list.
"I am deeply concerned for Grand Forks, East Grand Forks, and the immediately surrounding area. Nearly 5,000 military and civilian employees in this community could be adversely affected by the Department of Defense's proposal," said Dayton. "A loss of this magnitude would be very difficult and certainly warrants a regional hearing."
"I am confident that if some of the BRAC Commissioners visit the Grand Forks Air Force Base they will see what I see: one of finest military installations in the country," Senator Dorgan said. "A site hearing will help us make the case for keeping a robust Air Force presence and securing new missions at Grand Forks, while also showing just how critical the base is to the region's economic health."
"Clearly it would help for the BRAC Commission to come and see for themselves why Air Mobility Command refers to Grand Forks Air Force Base as its "crown jewel.' We know this is a base with great military value, and we need to make sure the BRAC commissioners know it, too," said Senator Conrad.
"I am concerned about the potential impact the DOD recommendation to the BRAC commission might have, not only on our neighbors in North Dakota but particularly on East Grand Forks and the surrounding communities in Minnesota," said Senator Coleman. "I think it is appropriate to hold a hearing to explore the implications of DOD's recommendation so the economic aspects as well as strategic concerns are fully considered."
Representatives Collin Peterson (D-MN) and Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) also joined in sending the letter.
A copy of the letter is below.
May 17, 2005
The Honorable Anthony J. Principi
Chairman, Base Realignment and Closure Commission
2521 South Clark Street, Suite 600
Arlington, VA 22202
Dear Mr. Chairman,
We thank you for your commitment to review objectively and independently the recommendations by the Secretary of Defense regarding the closure of domestic military bases. Particularly commendable is your willingness to hold Commission hearings in areas which would be most adversely affected by the Secretary's proposals.
One of those regions is unquestionably Grand Forks, North Dakota, East Grand Forks, Minnesota, and their surrounding communities. The Secretary of Defense proposes to realign the Grand Forks Air Force Base by moving its tankers to other bases. His report predicts this action would result in the loss of 2,645 jobs directly and another 2,284 jobs indirectly.
A loss of this magnitude would be very hard for any region. Using the DoD estimate, this realignment would reduce employment in the Grand Forks and East Grand Forks area by 7.4 percent. Given this degree of economic consequence, we respectfully request your Commission to hold one of its hearings in Grand Forks/East Grand Forks. We believe that the Secretary's recommendation is misguided, and look forward to the opportunity to debate it before the Commission. Thank you for your consideration of our request.
Sincerely,
Mark Dayton Kent Conrad Byron Dorgan Norm Coleman Earl Pomeroy Collin Peterson

Source: http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=237870&&
