Public Statements
Dayton Pushes for "Patients' Bill of Rights" To Put Medical Decisions Back in Hands of Patients and Doctors
By: Mark Dayton
Date: May 11, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Pushes for "Patients' Bill of Rights" To Put Medical Decisions Back in Hands of Patients and Doctors
Dayton's Health Care Help Line has helped over 2,000 Minnesotans resolve problems with health insurance providers
U.S. Senator Mark Dayton today joined with Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA) to introduce the Patients' Bill of Rights (S.1012), which, in addition to other patient protections, would ensure that patients and their doctors, not health insurance plans, make decisions regarding medical care. Dayton created a Health Care Helpline in his office for Minnesotans to call if they need help dealing with their HMO's or health insurance providers.
"This legislation would be a victory for patients in Minnesota and across the country," Dayton said. "No longer would a patient's health be considered less important than an HMO's bottom line. Instead, patients would have the right to receive the medical care they need and for which they and their employers have been paying."
Dayton said the bill provides protections for all Americans under all health plans. It includes many guarantees that currently do not exist at the federal level, including: the right to see a medical specialist, the right to go to the closest emergency room without prior health plan approval, the right for patients to see their own doctors throughout their entire treatment, the right to obtain the medicines that their doctors have prescribed, the right to appeal a health plan's decision if care is denied, and the right to hold health plans accountable for decisions that harm patients.
In 2000, Dayton established the Health Care Help Line (HCHL), which Minnesotans can call for help if their HMO or insurance company has either denied them care or refused to pay for care that they have already received. To date, HCHL has helped more than 2,100 Minnesotans to receive necessary care. The toll-free Health Care Help Line number is: 1-866-296-4319.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=237511&&
