Public Statements
Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2006 - Conference Report
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 28, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2006--CONFERENCE REPORT
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, this budget proves the old saying that the end justifies the means. In this case the process used to produce this budget was a disgrace, and the budget itself is a disgrace.
The Democratic Senators who were the official members of the conference committee were not even allowed to attend the meetings behind closed doors. That is not only unfair, that is ridiculous. The other side has the votes on the conference committee to pass whatever they want. That is fair. They are the majority caucus. To not even allow Democratic Senators in the room, what are they hiding? What are they ashamed of?
They should be ashamed of this budget, and they should be ashamed of hiding their decisions behind closed doors. In my home State of Minnesota, we have an open meeting law. It applies to every public body from the State legislature to city councils to school boards. Any meeting of three or more members must be a public meeting. There must be a public notice given so that people can watch their elected officials make the decisions that affect their lives and hold them accountable.
This budget fiasco underscores the need for such an open meeting law in Washington to open the doors of these conference committees to Democrats, to the press, and to the people. But if the budget process we have seen here is the reason we need an open meeting law in Washington, this budget product is the reason we will not get one.
If I were responsible for this disgrace, I would want to hide, too. But I am not responsible for it. No Democratic Senator is responsible for it. This budget manages to increase the Federal debt, as the Senator from North Dakota so articulately demonstrated, and I commend him for his vigilance, for his integrity, and for his straightforward honesty.
This budget increases the Federal debt. It preserves the tax favors for the rich and the super rich, and it cuts services for schoolchildren, college students, senior citizens, veterans, and so many others. To use the President's phrase, that is a trifecta. In this case, it is a terrible trifecta.
This budget also uses a backdoor trick to open ANWR to oil and gas drilling, and that makes it a grand scam.
It is a clear picture, this budget of Republican priorities. It contradicts all the fake rhetoric and false promises such as No Child Left Behind, Clear Skies, or Healthy Communities because this budget leaves millions of schoolchildren behind and millions more college students in debt. I know because I offered my sixth amendment to fully fund the Federal commitment to special education, and it failed once again.
This budget leaves the Federal share of the cost for special education still less than half of what was promised 28 years ago. It underfunds veterans services, including health care services for our service men and women who are returning from their heroic service in Iraq and Afghanistan, many with serious wounds and injuries. And this is on top of Republicans' rejection of emergency funding for VA health care and supplemental appropriations for our war efforts. Every Democratic Senator voted for that emergency funding for VA health care, and every Republican Senator, except for Senator Specter from Pennsylvania, voted against it.
This budget tonight means that all veterans, young and old, will have longer waits for the health care they need, that they were promised, and that they certainly deserve.
This budget tells the truth about Republican priorities, not the soothing rhetoric, not the misleading slogans, not even the face-saving votes on the Senate budget to spare senior citizens in nursing homes from draconian cuts that the President proposed. Those cuts were put back in this budget once again behind closed doors. And it is certainly not the tricks and gimmicks that were used to disguise how bad the deficits in this budget really are.
This budget takes America in the wrong direction, toward a fiscal Armageddon that will occur much sooner than the much advertised and overdramatized Social Security shortfall that the President's proposal would make much worse.
The continuing deficits in this budget are what the nonpartisan fiscal watchdog, the Concord Coalition, has called ``the most reckless fiscal policy in our Nation's history.''
The deficit reduction that is pretended to be in this budget is about as likely as finding weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.
As the Republican chairman of the Senate Finance Committee has observed tonight, this budget ignores the rising injustice of the alternative minimum tax which will cause major tax increases for millions of middle-class Americans in the years ahead unless we address it as we should.
As the truth-telling ranking Democrat on the Senate Budget Committee, the Senator from North Dakota, said tonight, this budget hides the rising deficits that begin 6 years from now which will grow and grow until this Nation is so deep in debt that the rest of the world finally refuses to keep loaning us $500 billion or more every year, and when they stop, there will be, for all of us--our children and our grandchildren--real hell to pay.
This budget is wrong. It is wrong for most Americans, wrong for America, and wrong for those who are here tonight to approve it. I will vote against it, and I urge my colleagues to reject it also.
I yield the floor.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
