Public Statements
Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users - Continued
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 27, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


TRANSPORTATION EQUITY ACT: A LEGACY FOR USERS--Continued
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I concur with the remarks of the Senator from Wyoming. I also represent a Northern State with a very short construction season. We were severely impacted last year by the inability to reach an agreement with the House and with the President. But in fairness to all of us in the Senate, we were not the holdup in that matter.
As I said on numerous occasions to the distinguished chairman of the committee, Senator Inhofe, and to the ranking member, Senator Jeffords, we had a bipartisan agreement in the Senate that was best for Minnesota and I think for virtually every other State. I have not heard anybody say they have too much Federal highway or transit money and don't know what to do with it. But, unfortunately, we ran into the intransigence of the administration a year ago, and with the insistence of the President, the concurrence of the House, and were unable to get what the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Grassley, said was a fiscally sound and balanced--in terms of the highway trust fund revenues--measure in the Senate.
So while I concur with the Senator from Wyoming, I might also point out, as it relates to this particular legislation, the Democratic leader, Senator Reid, last week wrote to the Senate Republican leadership and urged that this measure be brought up this week. I commend Senator Frist and Senator McConnell for deciding to proceed on this very important matter for the people of this country rather than some of the shenanigans that others were urging upon them. So we are proceeding on a measured basis, but not with any resistance or opposition by anybody on this side of the aisle.
We voted overwhelmingly to proceed on the motion to proceed earlier in the week. It is unfortunate timing that our long-planned Senate recess for next week will truncate the process. But I share the Senator's view that this bill needs to be enacted as expeditiously as possible. I hope the conference committee will be able to proceed as quickly as possible thereafter, while recognizing the Senate bill has been, and continues to be, vastly superior to the House version in terms of additional funding. Those are matters worth arguing about and, hopefully, prevailing on because Minnesota needs the money even as much as we need the bill to be completed.
Mr. President, if there is no immediate business related to this measure--I spoke earlier with the bill's manager--I ask unanimous consent that I have up to 10 minutes to speak as in morning business. Is this a propitious time to do so?
http://thomas.loc.gov/
