Public Statements
Dayton Introduces Legislation to Fund First-Ever National Child Protection Development and Training Center in Winona
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 22, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Introduces Legislation to Fund First-Ever National Child Protection Development and Training Center in Winona
Legislation would enable Center to continue its programs to reduce child abuse nationwide.
Today U.S. Senator Mark Dayton introduced legislation (S.885) to authorize funding for the Winona State University National Child Protection Development and Training Center (NCPTC), a nationally recognized training center for child protection professionals. The NCPTC is engaged in creating a model undergraduate curriculum to train future social workers, teachers, nurses, attorneys, psychologists, and law enforcement professionals to detect child abuse, promote early intervention, and ensure that victims receive the help they need.
"Since its inception in 2003, the National Child Protection Development and Training Center has provided thousands of child protection professionals with the guidance and training needed to help our nation's most vulnerable population, our children," said Dayton. "My legislation would ensure the Center has the necessary resources to continue pursuing its vital goal of significantly reducing child abuse in the United States."
Winona State University President Dr. Darrell W. Krueger said, ""We are pleased and thankful for the support this program has received from federal government officials and the law enforcement community. The goal of the NCPTC is to eradicate child abuse and we are proud to be the host institution for the Center."
In addition to providing training to future and experienced child care professionals, the NCPTC also aids states in establishing locally run programs to teach investigators and prosecutors how to interview child abuse victims.
Dayton's legislation would authorize $4.5 million annually in fiscal years 2006 to 2008 for the American Prosecutors Research Institute, based in Alexandria, VA, and a partner with Winona State University in creating the NCPTC, and $3 million annually for that same period for the Winona Center.
Dayton is also working to secure funding for the Center in the FY 2006 annual appropriations bill.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=236870&&
