Public Statements
Dayton Pushes to Allow Military Families to Use Family and Medical Leave Act Benefits
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 15, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Pushes to Allow Military Families to Use Family and Medical Leave Act Benefits
Legislation would allow more time off for families of deployed military personnel.
Legislation would alleviate some difficulties faced by families of deployed military personnel.
Today U.S. Senator Mark Dayton cosponsored legislation which would help alleviate some of the difficulties experienced by families of military personnel deployed or preparing for deployment on military assignments. The bill would allow families who already qualify for the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) to take paid and/or unpaid time off for certain family and medical reasons arising directly from the deployment of a family member. Since the enactment of FMLA ten years ago, the deployment of military personnel has increased dramatically, with a corresponding increase in the demands placed on their families.
"Our military families are making tremendous sacrifices and experiencing hardships, while spouses are overseas in combat or on peacekeeping missions," said Dayton. "By passing this legislation, we can help families take the time they need to deal with leases and bank accounts that need to be reissued with their names because of a deployment. They would also be able to use Family and Medical Leave benefits to spend time with their loved ones when they return home or to alleviate other hardships incurred by the absence of a spouse."
This legislation does not expand FMLA to members of the military or anyone else. It simply allows a spouse, son, daughter, or parent who already qualifies for FMLA to use benefits for reasons arising from the deployment of a family member. This bill has been endorsed by the Military Officers Association of America, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, and the National Partnership for Women and Families.
Dayton said, "I have heard stories time and again from military spouses who have experienced unnecessary stress due to a recent deployment. One of their largest concerns has to do with juggling their job, caring for their families, and dealing with the logistical and financial issues caused by their spouse being sent off to war. Minnesota military families would benefit immensely from this legislation."
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=236464&&
