Public Statements
Deaths of Minnesotans in Iraq
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 13, 2005
Location: Unknown


Deaths of Minnesotans in Iraq
Recently, four Minnesota heroes lost their lives in Iraq. I was honored to attend the services of these brave men, who made the ultimate sacrifice in service of their country and of their fellow troops. Three National Guardsmen were killed while rescuing two comrades who had been wounded in a roadside ambush. The other Minnesota soldier was killed by a grenade, while standing watch atop a Baghdad police station.
These deaths in Iraq occurred two years after the invasion of that country commenced. Recently, a Presidential Commission reported serious failures in American intelligence leading up to the President's decision to go to war. Since then, 1,400 U.S. weapons inspectors found none of the weapons of mass destruction, which earlier intelligence reports claimed were in Saddam Hussein's possession. At the time, President Bush stated that the existence of such weapons was the principal reason for his decision to go to war.
The Commission also determined that the President and his advisers misjudged the reaction of the Iraqi people to Saddam Hussein's removal. Those misjudgments were also caused, in part, by faulty intelligence. They resulted in an insufficient number of U.S. troops to provide nationwide security, protect vital infrastructures, and reestablish essential public services like electricity, water, and sanitation.
The Administration also failed to reestablish the previous Iraqi security force or to train a new one. As a result, two years later, American troops are still patrolling streets and highways, directing traffic, and performing other basic law-and-order functions necessary in any civilized society. Those duties, which should have been taken over by Iraqi police and militia, continuously expose our soldiers to attacks by Iraqi insurgents.
The Minnesota soldier killed guarding the police station gave his life, heroically and importantly, for his country. However, the 55,000 Iraqi police who have supposedly been trained should by now be able to take over that kind of responsibility.
