Public Statements
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2006 and 2007 -- Continued
By: Mark Dayton
Date: April 6, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2006 AND 2007--Continued -- (Senate - April 06, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I rise to discuss an amendment that I have filed and will offer formally. It is a sense-of-the-Senate resolution that calls for the United Nations to give full nation membership status to Israel.
Unfortunately, and wrongly, Israel has not been granted the full status that other 190-nation members enjoy, ever since it became a nation state in 1948 and formally became a member of the United Nations in 1949. For over 50 years, until the year 2000, Israel was the only member state that was consistently denied admission into a regional group.
Even now, it is still limited to the Western European and others group in New York but not in Geneva and elsewhere. As a result, for example, Israel cannot participate in the voting for the composition of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, nor can an Israeli judge serve on that court. Yet the court is called upon, and was recently, by other nations and the General Assembly to pass judgment on the actions of Israel to protect its national borders and to secure the lives and the safety of its citizens.
Also, as a result of the denial of full status, Israel is not allowed to participate in United Nations conferences on human rights, racism, and other issues held in world locations, which is particularly important since some of those conferences unfairly discriminate against Israel in their consideration of issues they do not consider to the same extent or at all as they affect other member nation states.
My amendment says it is the sense of Congress that President Bush should direct the U.S. permanent representative to the United Nations to seek an immediate end to the persistent and deplorable inequality that is experienced by Israel in the United Nations; that Israel should be afforded the benefits of full membership in Western European and other groups in the United Nations to achieve that full participation, and that the U.S. Secretary of State should report to Congress on a regular basis on the actions of the administration to encourage Israel's full acceptance by other member states in the United Nations. Obviously this law and those requirements would apply equally to future administrations of our Government as well.
It is ironic because the United Nations created the State of Israel back in 1948, and yet it has been the body where some of the most anti-Semitic and discriminatory attacks against the democratically elected Government of the people of Israel have taken place. There have been some improvements. There have been recognitions most recently by Secretary Kofi Annan of the anti-Semitic and anti-Israel bias historically in the United Nations. Some progress has been made, but some is not full progress or acceptance, and some is not enough.
The United Nations was founded upon the principle that all member nations of the world, all of which may be engaged to some or another extent in practices or activities that other nations may disagree with, are equal members there for the purpose of resolving the differences among nations and among the peoples of the world peacefully, equitably, and hopefully in the ultimate best interests of all concerned. So by denying this great nation, a democratic government and the people of Israel, the full rights of citizenship in that world body runs contrary to the founding principles and the purpose of the United Nations. It is destructive to the attempt to resolve the differences in the Middle East peacefully, equitably, and hopefully permanently for the benefit of all concerned.
I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
