Public Statements
ANWR and Flexible Fuels
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 21, 2005
Location: Unknown


ANWR and Flexible Fuels
Last week's misguided Senate vote to drill for oil in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) is a consequence of the failure to reduce our nation's dependence on both domestic and foreign oil. Four winters ago, I traveled to that northern region of Alaska to see the oil-drilling operations then under way on land right next to ANWR.
The newest site there, called Alpine, is a 97-acre industrial complex, which is the same size as the Mall of America. The oil companies call it a "footprint!" Their plans for ANWR are to build up to 20 more 100-acre "footprints," connected to one another by aboveground oil pipelines, which would not be part of the "footprint".
Evidently, our country is so hooked on oil that we have to desecrate a national wildlife refuge with 20 Mall-of-America-sized industrial complexes, which will not begin to produce oil until at least 2012. And those complexes, during their expected 20-year lifetimes, will supply only enough oil to reduce projected foreign imports by three percent-from 68% to 65% of total U.S. consumption. The actual reduction could be even less, because several years ago, energy companies succeeded in lobbying Congress to change federal law to let them sell Alaskan north slope oil to foreign countries, such as Japan and China. Desecrating
ANWR will not improve America's long-term energy future; it will primarily improve the profitability of some of the world's richest companies.
Meanwhile, here in Minnesota, I drive a Ford Explorer which, with its factory-made "flexible-fuel" engine, runs equally well on regular gasoline, unleaded gasoline, or "E-85" fuel. E-85 is a mixture of 85% ethanol and 15% gasoline. Presently available at over 100 service stations throughout our state, E-85 reduces tailpipe emissions, which means it is better for the environment. Best of all, a gallon of E-85 now costs about 30 cents per gallon less than regular unleaded gasoline.
Obviously, anyone would jump at the chance to save 30 cents per gallon at every fill-up. Unfortunately, only cars, trucks, SUVs, and other vehicles in which the manufacturers have installed flexible-fuel engines can utilize E-85.
What we have is a classic case of "Which came first, the chicken or the egg?" Automobile manufacturers do not want to produce more vehicles with flexible-fuel engines, because there is not enough consumer demand for them. Most consumers don't know to ask for such engines because they do not live where E-85 fuel is available. But, like the auto manufacturers, most service stations do not carry the fuel, due to a lack of consumer demand. And thus, our cycle of gasoline dependence is perpetuated.
That is why I have introduced legislation requiring all new, gasoline-consuming vehicles sold in the United States to have flexible-fuel engines. I have been told by auto manufacturers that, once their assembly lines are slightly modified to produce those engines, they cost no more to build than regular models. Since they run equally well on regular unleaded gasoline, E-85 fuel, or a combination of the two, flexible-fuel engines will give consumers options to buy cheaper fuel. That much-needed competition will help to prevent price-gouging, which too often occurs when any product has a monopoly.
Imagine if half or more of the $165 billion we currently send overseas to pay for imported foreign oil went instead to America's farmers, who then spent that additional income in nearby communities. The result would be economic revitalization throughout rural America. Currently, ethanol plants in southern Minnesota add 8 to 15 cents per bushel to the market prices of locally grown corn. In addition to benefitting those farmers, higher market prices mean lower price subsidy costs to taxpayers. In other words, increased use of ethanol as a substitute for gasoline is an economic and environmental "grand slam" for America!
That is why it is so enormously frustrating to see how little progress we have made throughout the country toward increased ethanol consumption. Minnesota leads all 50 states in promoting ethanol usage. Eight years ago, the Minnesota Legislature passed a law requiring every gallon of gasoline sold in Minnesota to contain at least 10% ethanol. The Legislature acted wisely and courageously, despite fierce opposition from the oil industry, which predicted catastrophes such as higher prices, unreliable supplies, and disastrous effects on engines.
None of those doomsday forecasts were realized. In fact, compared to national averages, the 10% ethanol mandate has lowered the price of gasoline for Minnesota motorists. Yet, despite our success, Minnesota is still the only state in the nation with an ethanol minimum requirement, which, were it nationwide, would obviously reduce American gasoline consumption by 10%. Since over 40% of the 21 million barrels of oil Americans consume daily is in the form of gasoline, those savings would be enormous.
Just days after the Senate vote on ANWR, the world price for a barrel of oil hit a record high $56. Now is the time for us to get serious about alternative energy and that means getting serious about ethanol.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=234366&&
