Public Statements
Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 2, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


BANKRUPTCY ABUSE PREVENTION AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT OF 2005
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I salute my colleague, Senator Kennedy, for his powerful and heroic statements today on behalf of the people of America who do not have the time or the money to come to Washington or hire expensive lobbyists to press their causes in the Senate. He has championed their concerns for decades now.
I am very proud to have been a member of his caucus a short while ago, listening to him speak the truth about this legislation, which is a totally one-sided assault on real Americans, the folks we see out there in our States who cannot be here because they are working, because they have earned a decent living, a middle-income living, but they are not getting rich, and they are not taking advantage of programs, but they have suffered the kind of personal misfortunes Senator Kennedy, Senator Durbin, and others have described--serious injuries, illnesses to themselves, to their spouses, or to their children. But they do not have health coverage, or they actually find out now they have health coverage, but the gaps in that coverage are so large or the copayments are so high they run up debts they cannot afford.
We can talk about people who lost their jobs and often, therefore, their health coverage, which means they have added economic misfortune on to a health crisis. They are the targets of this legislation, the victims of this legislation. It is self-entitled the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act. If this bill is a consumer protection act, believe me, the consumers of America are in very serious trouble. This is a Credit Card Company Protection Act. The poor credit card companies of America are the innocent victims, we are being told, if we believe what we are hearing from the other side, of some supposed massive consumer fraud when, in fact, in the 8 years since this legislation was first introduced, the number of credit card solicitations in this country has doubled to 5 billion a year. Between 1993 and 2000, the amount of credit extended to people in this country grew from $77 billion to almost $3 trillion.
During the 8 years of the existence of this legislation, the bankruptcy filings in America have increased by 17 percent, and the credit card company profits have increased by 163 percent, from $11.5 billion to over $30 billion in profits last year. Does that seem like an industry that is facing a financial crisis or is being taken advantage of by people who are trying to get out from under their responsibilities? Not at all. In fact, the opposite. In fact, the opposite is that the credit card companies are taking advantage of Americans, not the other way around.
Some courts around the country have demanded that the credit card companies disclose the amount that remains to be repaid from what was actually borrowed and how much are the fees, the penalties, and the interest rates they are charging. It turns out that with the interest rates conventionally charged and the terms and conditions that are written into these agreements, many of the credit card companies are actually billing two times or more than the amount that is actually borrowed or remains to be paid. Often now it is higher than that.
Here is a form of a loan operation in my home State of Minnesota called Money Centers. Their slogan is: ``We make it easy.'' They make it easy all right. Their annual interest charge is 384 percent. But that is a bargain compared to Check and Go in Wisconsin. Their annual interest charge is 535 percent. Both of them combined do not equal the interest rate that is charged by the County Bank of Rehoboth Beach, DE, whose annual interest rate is 1,095 percent of annual interest charged on the amount that is borrowed. Now that is real abuse. That goes way beyond what we call predatory lending. That is ``terroristic'' lending. Yet this bill before us does nothing about those lenders' abuses that drive far more people into bankruptcy than what we are hearing about from the other side today.
This legislation does nothing about hospitals and other health care providers who charge uninsured patients much more than they charge their insured patients, or those covered by programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and then turn around and charge exorbitant interest rates on top of on bills of tens of thousands of dollars to the very people they are supposed to be helping who cannot possibly afford, with moderate incomes, to repay those kinds of costs.
That overcharge for the uninsured is why an overnight stay at a Virginia hospital costs $6,000 if someone is on Medicaid, but it costs $29,000 if it is Paul Shipman who had a heart attack and is uninsured. That is why a woman named Rose Schaffer, who is now being harassed by a hospital collection unit after she suffered a heart attack, said:
The hospital saved my life, but now they are trying to kill me.
This bill also does nothing about the abuses of bankruptcy laws that allow large corporations to declare bankruptcy, dump their pensions and their retiree health benefits, and then emerge from bankruptcy and leave thousands of innocent victims. I met with some of them just this last week in my State of Minnesota. It is heartbreaking. It makes you want to cry, and then it makes you so angry at the injustice that has occurred to good, hard-working men and women who have worked all their lives, played by the rules, did everything they are supposed to do, did their part, helped build these companies, and now they are retired and the companies go into bankruptcy, such as mining companies. As one of the workers said: A company gets the mine, and we get the shaft. The company comes out of bankruptcy court proceedings and it is profitable again, having left behind its pension obligations and its health obligations to retirees--people who are betrayed, abandoned, and left destitute with no recourse whatsoever.
Those are the terrible and huge abuses of bankruptcy laws that are destroying lives in Minnesota and across this country and are leaving American taxpayers with billions of dollars of unfunded pension obligations that they are going to have to pay rather than the companies that incurred them. This legislation before us does nothing about addressing those abuses.
A spokesperson for the distinguished chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, the author of this legislation, Senator Grassley, said on behalf of Senator Grassley, when he recently reintroduced the legislation:
People who have the ability to repay some or all of their debts should not be able to use bankruptcy as a financial planning tool so they get out of paying their debts scot-free while honest Americans who play by the rules have to foot the bill.
I do not think any of us would disagree with that; I certainly would not. Then I see these companies using bankruptcy law as a financial planning tool, as a corporate car wash where they can go through and clean their ledgers of these obligations to workers and retirees and come out, reestablish profitability, and these men and women, good Americans, are left behind with nothing.
Again, that is an injustice enough by itself, but the other result is the taxpayers pay the bill. This bill does nothing about that. So my amendment actually adds a real consumer protection clause to the bill that otherwise does not deserve the name. It would limit the maximum annual interest that could be charged by anyone, any lender, to 30 percent.
Now, that tells us how bad things are in this country, that a 30-percent interest charge would actually be a reduction. Right now inflation has been running less than 2 percent annually. The current rate for a 3-month Treasury bill is 2.75 percent. The prime lending rate is 5 1/2 percent. Thirty percent as a ceiling of what could be charged annually is still consumer abuse, but it is a lot better than 384 percent or 1,095 percent or 1,095 percent. So that is what this amendment would do. It would set a limit of the annual interest rate that could be charged by any lender to 30 percent.
If somebody believes it is not profitable for them to lend money, for whatever reasons, liability, likelihood of repayment, whatever else, that it is not profitable at a 30-percent annual interest, I say it is not a wise loan for the lender and it is not a wise loan for the borrower.
We have too many people in this country who are taking advantage of others and charging these astronomical, shameful, disgraceful, and they ought to be illegal, rates of interest and taking advantage of those people, driving them deeper into debt, many of those that my colleagues have cited as being the culprits in this situation, the nonhealth care borrowers who are running up these credit card debts.
If someone is paying 384-percent interest a year, they are going to run up that debt very fast. If someone is paying 1,095-percent interest on anything they have borrowed, believe me, anybody in this country is going to be needing to file for bankruptcy very fast. This bill does not even mention those abuses.
This amendment would put a real consumer protection clause into this bill and for that reason, as well as basic justice, we should do what this body is supposed to do, which is to stand up and protect Americans. I urge my colleagues to give it their support.
I yield the floor.
http://thomas.loc.gov
