Public Statements
Supporting Our Military Families
By: Mark Dayton
Date: March 1, 2005
Location: Unknown


Supporting Our Military Families
The tragic deaths of First Lieutenant Jason Timmerman, Sergeant David Day, and Sergeant Jesse Lhotka brought to 19 the number of Minnesotans who have been killed in Iraq. After their funerals, I met in St. Cloud with the Adjutant General of the Minnesota National Guard, Major General Larry Shellito, and families of other Minnesotans currently serving in Iraq or Afghanistan.
The wives, husbands, parents, and children of soldiers deployed in war zones carry extra-heavy burdens; they live in constant uncertainty about their loved ones' safety. At our meeting, one wife told us that after she learned soldiers in her husband's unit had been killed in Iraq, she "fell into the hugest hole," because she was unable to find out whether her husband was among the casualties.
Other wives described losing their jobs because they were unable to juggle working full-time, being single parents, managing their households, and maintaining other commitments. As a result, financial hardships were added to their burdens. Even some who continued to work have encountered financial difficulties, because their husbands' active duty military pay is less than their civilian earnings.
Those spouses and their children are making enormous sacrifices while their loved ones serve our nation overseas. You may be able to help them.
If you know a family member or close friend of someone deployed in Iraq, Afghanistan, or anywhere else around the world, please offer a helping hand. Deployments can radically alter the lives of the families who have to endure the experience. Furthermore, Minnesota does not have active-duty military bases where families support one another during their loved ones' absences. Many of our Guard and Reservist families feel isolated, even in their own workplaces and neighborhoods. Frequently, I hear spouses say, "No one understands what I'm going through."
