Public Statements
State of the Union and Social Security
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 17, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


State of the Union and Social Security
I have attended all of President Bush's State of the Union Addresses, and I thought that this year's was his best. He appeared relaxed and confident from his re-election victory, and he clearly enjoyed the enthusiastic responses (many of them bipartisan!) from the audience. When the Iraqi woman hugged the mother of an American soldier who had lost his life in Iraq, it was the most deeply moving moment that I can remember.
State of the Union Addresses present the broad outlines of plans and proposals; the details are provided later. Soon, the President's proposed budget plan for federal fiscal year 2006, which begins on October 1, 2005, will specify his priorities and the 150 federal programs he said he wants to eliminate.
Almost immediately after receiving the President's budget proposal, the Budget Committees of the Senate and the House will begin their work separately to prepare the budget which Congress will approve. It will set the overall revenue and expenditure limits for 2006.
The President's speech also lacked the details of his proposal to allow private retirement accounts to replace part of future Social Security benefits. He did make clear that people now receiving Social Security's retirement, disability, or survivors' benefits and present workers age 55 and older would not be affected by his proposed changes. They would, however, apply to everyone age 54 and younger.
Senior Administration officials provided some of the details missing from the President's speech. The President's plan would significantly cut future benefits for retirees now under the age of 55. While he did not endorse a particular benefit-reducing scheme, he did cite the recommendation of former Minnesota Congressman Tim Penny from the three proposed by the Presidential Commission on which he served. By that formula change, workers now 30 years old would have their Social Security benefits cut by one-fourth, when they retire. People age 20 today would receive benefits cuts by over one-third when they eventually retire. Those cuts would occur, whether or not they chose to give up their own private retirement accounts.
If they chose that option, their future Social Security benefits would be further reduced by the amount of their payroll taxes they intended put into their private retirement accounts, plus three percent annual interest. They could then select one of several investment plans approved by the federal government. If their investment returns, after administrative costs and fees, exceeded their withdrawals from Social Security and interest, they would have more money for their retirements. If the returns were not so high, they would have less retirement income.
Either way, however, their combined incomes from investments and Social Security would be less than now proposed under the present system, because of the across-the-board cuts for all future retirees. Thus, the President is proposing to "solve" the Social Security system's financial shortfall entirely by cutting benefits for future retirees.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=232312&&
