Public Statements
Governor Establishes Council on Freight Rail
Press Release
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 15, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton today issued Executive Order 16-06, establishing the Governor's Council on Freight Rail. The Council will bring together state officials and railroads in a public-private working group to improve communication and enhance safety and economic development in communities across Minnesota.

"Minnesota's railways make important contributions to our state's economy, and their operations in our state have a major impact on both the vitality and safety of our communities," said Governor Dayton. "From the thousands of jobs they support in our state, to shipping agricultural and other goods to market, the capacity and safety issues on our railways affect all Minnesotans. The new Council on Freight Rail will enhance coordination and partnership between Minnesota and the railroads, for the benefit of communities across our state."

Minnesota has over 4,500 miles of freight railroad connecting communities across our state, making it one of the largest rail networks in the country and employing more than 4,500 Minnesotans. However, increasing shipments of hazardous materials have increased the risk of derailments for our communities, environment, and economy. Minnesota's rail network currently carries 25 percent of all fright movement in the state, with that share expected to grow by 25-40 percent by 2040. The Governor's Council on Freight Rail will work proactively to foster safe and efficient freight rail operations, to support our economy and benefit local communities across the state.

The Council will be chaired by the Governor, with State Rail Director Alene Tchourumoff serving as Chair on behalf of the Governor. The Council will also include the following cabinet members:
Commissioner of Transportation (Vice-Chair)
Commissioner of Agriculture
Commissioner of Commerce
Commissioner of Employment and Economic Development
Commissioner of Iron Range Resources and Rehabilitation Board
Chair of the Metropolitan Council
Commissioner of the Pollution Control Agency
Commissioner of Public Safety
Commissioner of Revenue

The Council will also include the following members, by invitation:
One representative each from the Class I railroads operating in the state
One representative each from three Minnesota Class II and III railroads
One representative from Amtrak
One city representative designated by the League of Minnesota Cities
One county representative designated by the Association of Minnesota Counties

A full copy of the Governor's Executive Order can be found on the Governor's website.

Governor Dayton's Commitment to Rail Safety
In addition to establishing the Governor's Council on Freight Rail, Governor Dayton this year proposed $119 million in rail safety investments in his Jobs Bill, which would have invested $1.4 billion to create thousands of jobs and complete critical infrastructure projects across our state. In 2016, Governor Dayton appointed Minnesota's first ever State Rail Director to oversee statewide coordination efforts between agencies and railroads. And in 2015, Governor Dayton proposed a comprehensive rail safety proposal to improve safety statewide.

In 2014, Governor Dayton pressed the federal Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration to take action to improve the safety of rail cars carrying crude oil through Minnesota. And that same year, Governor Dayton a signed law implementing better oversight of railways, requiring more railway inspections, and providing for better emergency response training and preparedness in communities across Minnesota.
Permalink: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/index.jsp?id=1055-249575

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/249575
