Public Statements
Dayton Introduces Bill to Improve Benefits for America's National Guard and Reservists on Extended Active Duty
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 7, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Introduces Bill to Improve Benefits for America's National Guard and Reservists on Extended Active Duty
Thousands of Minnesota National Guard and Reserve members are actively serving in the war on terror.
Washington, D.C. - Joined by the Minnesota service members and their families, U.S. Senator Mark Dayton announced today that he has introduced the National Guard and Reserve Bill of Rights Act of 2005 to expand and improve the benefits and protections offered to the National Guard and Reserve. The legislation includes provisions which would better inform service members about the facts of their deployment, guarantee timely compensation, provide comprehensive TRICARE health coverage and reenlistment bonuses, reduce the reservist retirement age, enhance educational benefits, and create new positions within the Department of Defense to better represent the interests of reservists.
"Minnesota reservists have all too often described to me the unnecessary problems they encounter in receiving their paychecks and obtaining basic health care," said Dayton. "These brave men and women deserve our gratitude, and they deserve our solid support, including better health care benefits and increased compensation, to say the very least.
"At a time when many of them are away from home on their second or third tour of duty, the least we can do is to provide them with adequate benefits and support. I will do everything I can to see that this legislation is enacted."
At a Monday morning press conference at the Capitol in St. Paul, Dayton acknowledged budget tightening by the Department of Defense, saying, "Its going to be a squeeze, but we have got to put our men and women in uniform ahead of everything else. We've got to be treating our reservists fairly before we move on to other procurements."
Lorie Olman, wife a reservist, told reporters, "I've been a National Guard wife for ten years, and in those ten years I've seen the effects of three deployments. Senator Dayton's bill brings to lights the issues and concerns unique to the Guard, reservists and their families. It addresses health care, retirement, pay and the need for the reserve component to have a bigger voice at the Pentagon."
Since September 11, 2001, President Bush has called more than 370,000 members of the National Guard and Reserve to active duty. At least 40 percent of the current Operation Iraqi Freedom consists of members of the reserve component. The benefits and protections these soldiers receive are often less than those received by full-time soldiers.
Cosponsors of the bill include Senators Jon Corzine (D-NJ), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), and Harry Reid (D-NV).
For more information on the National Guard and Reserve Bill of Rights Act please visit: http://www.congress.gov/cgi-lis/bdquery
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=231670&&
