Public Statements
Hearing of the Committee on Homeland Security Nomination of Hon. Michael Chertoff to be Secretary of Homeland Security
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 2, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the Committee on Homeland Security Nomination of Hon. Michael Chertoff to be Secretary of Homeland Security
OPENING STATEMENT OF SENATOR DAYTON
Senator Dayton. Thank you, Madam Chairman.
Senator Bennett mentioned a lifetime appointment and a permanent pension. He didn't mention you also wouldn't have to
appear before Senate committees, but all the more to your credit that you are willing to take this assignment on. I
apologize for not being able to meet with you. Mad cow disease is one of the priorities in Minnesota, so I apologize that that
intervened.
I will save most of my comments for the questioning period, but I do support very strongly what my colleague from Minnesota
said. You notice there are two Minnesotans on this Committee, so I will be watching to see if you visit International Falls
twice for every one time you go to Honolulu. [Laughter.]
Particularly since this body has in the past debated the need for additional funds for first responders, for local enforcement and response efforts and the majority decision was not to provide that additional funding, it is particularly distressing to see these, what appear to me to be very arbitrary and nonsensical elimination of funding for certain areas while others continue at the same or even reduced level.
Senator Levin had mentioned the threat assessment. The people I represent, the threat is omnipresent and telling people in one area that their threat is not real in an era where, as September 11 showed, even the inconceivable is possible, just is not something that I can get away with saying in Minnesota and I defer to my colleagues elsewhere. I also want to address later the Transportation Security Agency. One thing we are all experts on is flying and getting in and out of airports and the like, and while there have been some improvements there since pre-September 11, there is also, in my view, as a result of some of the management decisions that have been made, less than optimal performance and consistency there.
So again, I will look forward to the chance to question you and thank you very much for your dedication to our country.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Senator Dayton. Thank you, Madam Chairman.
Judge, the February 14, 2005 issue of the magazine The Nation has an article which alleges that in June 2002, just
prior to John Walker Lindh going to court regarding an evidence suppression hearing that the Justice Department's Criminal
Division, under your direction, offered him a deal reducing his charges if he would not appear before that judge and allegedly
describe his experiences of being tortured or abused by U.S. authorities after his capture. Is that accurate?
Judge Chertoff. My recollection is somewhat different, not surprisingly. I hasten to add, I do not have the documents in
front of me. But let me begin by saying, this is a completely public and transparent issue. Obviously, the arrest of John
Lindh was national if not international news. All the proceedings took place in open court.
There was a point in time that I was made aware by the lawyers working on the case that they had discovered that while
Lindh was in custody of some military personnel there were some photographs taken of him, and he had been held perhaps in the battlefield in difficult conditions. I do not remember exactly what they were. I do not remember there being an allegation of
torture at the time.
These discoveries were disclosed to the defense by the government. The government made that information, what they
had, available to the defense. I believe they were presented to the judge in papers which were filed in open court and fully
available to the public.
The decision to reach a plea agreement was not driven by the desire to keep a secret of something that had already been
publicized, but was, as is the case with all decisions to accept a plea, looking at the time and effort that would be necessary to litigate the case versus whether the government could substantially achieve its results in the case by getting a plea. In this case, I think the plea required not only a sentence of approximately 20 years but actually cooperation by Lindh.
Senator Dayton. But the issue is--have you seen this article, sir?
Judge Chertoff. Someone showed me the article.
Senator Dayton. One of the defense attorneys for Lindh asserts that you demanded, reportedly at the Defense
Department's insistence, according to what defense attorneys were told, that Lindh sign a statement swearing he had ``not
been intentionally mistreated'' by his U.S. captures and waiving any future right to claim mistreatment or torture. The
article goes on further, you attached a ``special administrative measure'' essentially a gag order, barring Lindh from talking about his experience for the duration of his sentence. Is that accurate? Judge Chertoff. All I can say, Senator, is I do not have
the plea agreement in front of me. It is not uncommon in my experience to have circumstances where in the course of a plea,
a defendant who has raised claims that the police somehow committed misconduct, will waive any claim that it is
intentional. So I do not think it is uncommon. But again, I do not have the plea agreement.
Senator Dayton. This was not a matter of police abuse, which is a serious matter. This was a matter of alleged torture
by U.S. authorities, which is important on this case because it preceded some of the other incidents reportedly of torture that
had not then come to light. I just would like to speak----
Judge Chertoff. Senator, let me just be clear.
Senator Dayton. No, let me just finish here. Because when you talk about pictures and the like, these allegations of his
torture included keeping a seriously wounded and untreated Lindh who was malnourished and dehydrated, blindfolded and duct taped to a stretcher for days in an unheated and unlit shipping container and reportedly threatening him with death, that
defense lawyers said was known to you, known to the prosecution, and that desire to suppress that from coming--you
talk about transparent transactions--suppress that information from coming to public light was what drove this offer.
Judge Chertoff. Senator, I do not believe that is correct for the following two reasons. One, first of all my recollection is, and I think I directed that it be done, that the appropriate military investigative authorities were made--if they were not already made aware, were made aware of this, so they could conduct an investigation and discipline the people who had done something wrong, which is what we always do.
Second, it could hardly have been kept secret because it was discussed in papers filed in open court at considerable
length. The plea and everything else was put on the record in front of the United States District judge. So I have to say the
idea that somehow this was to keep something secret does not jibe with my memory. My memory is the government forthrightly,
the prosecutors in the case, who were not involved in the underlying conduct, forthrightly disclosed it. The matter was
litigated openly in front of a United States District judge, and the appropriate military authorities who investigate misconduct by military personnel, which unfortunately does occur from time to time, were given the information about the case and pursued their investigation.
So there was in no sense an effort by my lights to keep any of this hidden, because in fact I recall it being public.
Senator Dayton. Are you aware of any other cases, instances in which the Justice Department offered, negotiated a plea to
anyone for suppression of evidence or information regarding alleged torture or mistreatment?
Judge Chertoff. No, I am not aware of any other instance, and I do not think that--as I said, this concept of, in the
context of a plea, requesting that somebody waive a claim, I've previously encountered that in just ordinary, garden variety
context with the criminal justice process. It is not something that is particularly rare, I think.
Senator Dayton. Regarding the Patriot Act. In retrospect now, are there areas, aspects of that law that you believe
should be curtailed or eliminated? Or conversely, are there areas that are still inadequate or insufficient that should be
expanded or added? Judge Chertoff. Again, my experience with the act is a couple of years old. In the areas in which I worked I thought the information sharing, the additional enhanced criminal penalties actually worked quite well. Particularly in
information sharing, I think was critical in allowing us to pursue additional terrorism cases.
With respect to criticism of the act, my position is always that if there is something that we have not anticipated that is
going on that we do not know about, I am always interested in hearing about it and I am always open to adjust. I do not know
that I am aware as I sit here of any particularly systemic criticism of the act that comes to mind.
Senator Dayton. Anything that you are aware of that is lacking that should be expanded or added?
Judge Chertoff. I know the Congress has added some additional measures. Again, because I am 2 years out of date I
am not sure I am perhaps in a position right now to articulate things that I think need to be added.
Senator Dayton. I will reserve my questions for the second round. Thank you, Madam Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Senator Dayton. Thank you, Madam Chairman.
Judge going back to the Lindh case, did anybody from the Department of Defense, the military, or anyone else in the
administration contact you or anyone else to your knowledge on the prosecution team asking that reduced sentence be offered to Mr. Lindh or his attorneys to suppress allegations of torture and/or improper treatment?
Judge Chertoff. Again, Senator, I have to say I do not think--although I understand that there was a--not having the
document, I do not know what is in it. Assuming there was a provision in the document to say that there would be no claim
of intentional mistreatment, which as I say is not an unusual thing, I am sure that was requested by somebody. I do not remember who requested it.
In terms of the decision about whether to take a plea, I do not agree that it was driven by the desire to suppress
information because my recollection is that the information had been made public in filings made by the defendant. So one would have been suppressing something that was publicly discussed.
Senator Dayton. So you do not recall anyone contacting you from the Pentagon, the military, anywhere else in the
administration asking that this information or any information or allegations of mistreatment be suppressed, and requesting
that there be a negotiated plea reduction in order to accomplish that?
Judge Chertoff. I am confident we discussed with the Defense Department in some detail the appropriateness of taking
a plea and what the plea should be. I guess what I am not comfortable in agreeing with this magazine article is saying
that somehow the purpose of doing it was to suppress information, because my understanding is the information was
public and therefore there is nothing to suppress. It is out. It is public. My recollection--again, I do not have the documents--is that the counsel for the defendant, who were very able and aggressive, had raised it publicly. So while there are reasons to take a plea, I do not think hiding the allegation was one of them.
Senator Dayton. About a year ago, The Washington Post reported a story of a Buddhist nun, a 30-year-old woman
originally from Tibet. Her family was being reportedly tortured by Chinese authorities so she fled to Nepal for safety. Then
when she feared being rounded up by Chinese authorities or the Nepalese government and returned to China, she fled to the
United States and sought asylum. She arrived in August 2003, was granted asylum by an immigration judge in November.
Then the Department of Homeland Security appealed that case. She was returned to her cell, this was reported the end
of January last year in The Washington Post, and her attorney said that her next court date would be likely in the fall at
the earliest. She did not speak any English, did not understand any English, was basically incommunicado. Had only had this one appearance in court where asylum was approved. The Chairman and I wrote a letter, and I think there were some other inquiries too. She was then released and the appeals court subsequently ruled in her favor.
We wrote also and asked Secretary Ridge for the number of instances where this was also occurring and were told that in
fiscal year 2003, DHS had sought review of 486 cases involving asylum grants. I realize with all of your myriad responsibilities it is not going to be possible for you to review each one of those, but I would ask that somebody make a determination.
And in his response he says it is generally the discretion that the appropriate ICE field officer, the director, whether
or not to ask for the alien to be incarcerated during that DHS appeal, absent exceptional concern such as national security
issues or danger to the community. Somebody ought to be able to decide whether a 30-year-old Tibetan nun is a threat to the
community and to our national security or not, especially after a judge has ruled in her favor, just on the grounds on basic
humanity. As the article said, here she is fleeing persecution in China and ends up being incarcerated here.
Again, I am respectful of the difficulty in making these distinctions, but I think, is important, especially if this is going to be a longer term predicament that we are in, that these decisions and these distinctions be made rationally and carefully.
Judge Chertoff. I agree with that. I think we should definitely do that.
Senator Dayton. Thank you. I would also ask you to review what occurred on June, I believe it was the 9th, possibly the
8th. My staff says the 8th, I say the 9th, so it is probably the 8th of last year when a private plane carrying the Governor
of Kentucky flew into the restricted airspace here in violation of FAA procedures, but nevertheless did so. The transponder was not functioning. The same situation we experienced on September 11, 2001. Despite some progress, and I think real progress that has been in interagency communication and the like, an open line which is great to have but evidently not all parties are staffing that line on an ongoing basis. So it does not do any good to have an open line if no one is there to receive the information.
Anyway, there was a breakdown in communication. Thousands of people were evacuated from the Capitol complex, being told, probably under the circumstances by the Capitol Police, take off your shoes, run for your lives. If that plane had been
other than what it was, it would have crashed into the Capitol within a minute of the time that alarm was sounded. So clearly,
again, we will never be perfect but when something that replicates what occurred on September 11 can occur, and you
could not have a more real-life, realistic simulation of that kind of a situation where most of the responsible authorities
really thought that there was another attack. And to see those continued failures to protect this Capitol complex to me was
really shocking.
Despite inquiries that I and other Members of Congress have made, to my knowledge, there have been no consequences from that at all. That is also alarming.
Judge Chertoff. I agree that is something that, as I said I think previously, when there are penetrations or issues like
that, those are opportunities for us to go back and see, why did that happen. I think that is a valuable thing to do.
Senator Dayton. Thank you. I would urge you to review the interdepartmental communication so that it is adequate to be
immediately responsive, which it has to be. Then finally, I just support what my colleague Senator Coleman said about the predicament in Minnesota, because it is nonsensical. There is a book in my library in my office called The Death of Common Sense, and I could apply that on a daily basis around here. In this case, we are giving a real double message to local officials if we say, make yourself a priority, take the necessary actions, and then on the other hand we turn around and say, you are not important enough, you are not high risk.
If somebody here is going to make a determination that certain parts of the country are sufficiently low risk then they should tell them so and relieve them of the responsibilities, the expenses and the like. But to say, you need to do all that and have local officials conscientiously doing that at cost, have the public believe that is necessary, and the turn around and just without any forewarning just say, now you are out, and the city and county right adjacent to you is in is really, from a standpoint of intergovernmental relations, is really destructive. But it is also really a contradictory message and it is very unfair to them.
If we are not going to be consistent and we are not going to follow up here with the resources necessary to carry out
what we say needs to be done, then I think we are really guilty of rank hypocrisy at this level. I hope and would urge that--
and I respect that you serve under the President and that they have a process, including Office of Management and Budget, but I think it is imperative that if we are going to do our responsibility here as a separate branch of government to
protect this country, that we have confidence that we are getting from you, regardless of OMB's view, regardless of
someone else's fiscal policy, we are getting from you the assurance that we are providing you with the resources necessary to protect this country to the best of our possible capabilities.
I would ask if you are willing to take that responsibility to communicate that independently to us and give us that
assurance independently.
Judge Chertoff. I think you deserve my candid assessment of where we are and what we need to do, and I will give that to
you.
Senator Dayton. Thank you. I will support your nomination. I wish you well.
http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_senate_hearings&docid=20170.wais
