Public Statements
Dayton Helps Secure Additional $100 Million to Protect Thousands of Minnesotans From Frigid Weather
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Feb. 1, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Helps Secure Additional $100 Million to Protect Thousands of Minnesotans from Frigid Weather; Urges President Bush to Increase Heating Assistance to $3.4 Billion in FY 2006 Budget
So far this winter, LIHEAP funding has helped over 69,000 Minnesota households afford their energy bills.
Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Mark Dayton, participating today in a press conference with a bipartisan group of his Senate colleagues, urged President Bush to include $3.4 billion in his FY2006 budget request to help thousands of Minnesotans pay their heating bills next year. So far this winter, Low-Income Home Emergency Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funding has helped over 69,000 of Minnesota's families and elderly afford their energy bills.
Last night, responding to pressure from Dayton and 49 other Senators, the President released an additional $100 million of the $300 million which Congress appropriated last December for emergency LIHEAP funding. This brings the total amount of emergency LIHEAP funding released this winter to $200 million.
"I am thankful that the Administration released $100 million in emergency funds last night, and I will continue to push for the release of the remaining $100 million," said Dayton. "Tragically, every year we have to go through this - fighting for heating assistance so that our citizens are able to heat their homes. That shouldn't be necessary," said Dayton. "This money is desperately needed in communities across Minnesota, such as Embarrass, MN, where the temperature recently plunged to a record -54 degrees. Temperatures tend to fall well below zero across Minnesota during the winter, and it is cruel and inhumane not to provide these funds to help families keep their heat turned on.
"I call on the Bush Administration to provide $3.4 billion up front for LIHEAP in the FY 2006 budget. The role of government is to extend a helping hand in times of urgent need."
LIHEAP, a federal block grant program that provides states with annual funding to operate home energy assistance programs for low-income households, has provided Minnesota with $77.8 million so far this winter.
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=231222&&
