Public Statements
Dayton Introduces Bill to Crack Down on Meth
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 24, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Dayton Introduces Bill to Crack Down on Meth
In 2003, over 300 drug labs were seized in Minnesota.
Today U.S. Senator Mark Dayton joined with Senators James Talent (R-MO) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in introducing legislation to provide new resources and tools to states and local law enforcement officials to combat the production and distribution of the drug methamphetamine (meth). The "Combat Meth Act" would place new, strict requirements on the sale of pseudoephedrine - one of the key ingredients used to produce meth in labs, large and small. In 2003, over 300 methamphetamine labs were seized and shut down in Minnesota - nearly triple the number seized in 2000.
"Fighting meth - a highly potent and cheap drug - requires a comprehensive approach which includes providing local law enforcement officials and prosecutors the tools needed to crack down on producers and traffickers of meth while enhancing education and awareness and treatment options for addicts," said Dayton.
"Methamphetamine labs can be found in virtually every state in our nation. Nobody is safe, and we all share the burden of cleanup costs."
In April, 2004, Oklahoma banned over-the-counter sales of cold medicines containing pseudoephedrine. Ten months later, meth lab seizures in Oklahoma are down more than 80 percent.
"We need to make it impossible for meth producers to merely visit their local pharmacy and buy, right off the shelf, the ingredients required to manufacture this drug. Our bill would eliminate this convenience for makers of meth."
The Combat Meth Act would:
Ø Provide critical resources to local law enforcement and prosecutors
Ø Expand the ability of local prosecutors to bring methamphetamine distributors to justice
Ø Restrict the sale of necessary ingredients for making meth
Ø Increase the awareness and involvement of businesses that legally sell pseudoephedrine, which is needed to make meth
Ø Provide services for children affected by the spread of meth
Ø Enhance treatment options
Methamphetamine is one of the deadliest, most fiercely addictive, and rapidly spreading drugs in the United States. During the past decade, while law enforcement officers have continued to bust record numbers of labs, meth use in communities has increased by as much as 300 percent. Meth is cheap, potent, and available everywhere.
"I look forward to working with Minnesota law enforcement and public health officials in eliminating our state's meth problem."
http://dayton.senate.gov/news/details.cfm?id=230812&&
