Public Statements
The College of St. Catherine
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Jan. 20, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


THE COLLEGE OF ST. CATHERINE -- (Senate - January 20, 2005)
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. president, I rise today to offer my heartfelt congratulations to the College of St. Catherine, in St. Paul, MN, on the celebration of its centennial year. St. Catherine is our country's largest Catholic college for women. Its numerous academic achievements would be impressive for a college of any size, but for an institution with fewer then 5,000 students, such accomplishments are downright spectacular.
Since its founding 100 years ago, the College of St. Catherine has expanded its student body from high school and lower division college students to include associate, bachelor's and graduate degree candidates in more than 60 fields. In 1937, St. Catherine became the first Catholic college to be awarded a chapter of the national honor society, Phi Beta Kappa.
Today, the College of St. Catherine continues to distinguish itself as a leading institution for women's education. Its Women of Substance series features lectures and performances of theater, music, and dance by female speakers and artists from around the world. In the classroom, the college's new Centers for Excellence focus on the role of women in such diverse fields as public policy, spirituality, and health.
Annually, the College of St. Catherine graduates more nurses than any other college or university in Minnesota. It is second only to the much larger University of Minnesota in the number of public school teachers it has educated and placed in the State's capital city of St. Paul.
Along with all of the Minnesotans whose lives have benefited from the talents, professionalism, and leadership of St. Catherine's outstanding graduates, I would like to say thank you. The College of St. Catherine's commitment to the highest standards of academic excellence and social responsibility have enriched the lives of its students and its state's citizens for a century. I congratulate the faculty, staff, alumnae, and students of the College of St. Catherine on their 100 years of excellence. I know that they will continue their great tradition for the next 100 years.
