Public Statements
Statements from Governor Dayton and Lt. Governor Smith on the Events That Transpired Saturday Night on Interstate 94
Statement
By: Mark Dayton
Date: July 10, 2016
Location: St. Paul, MN

Governor Mark Dayton and Lt. Governor Tina Smith released the following statements today regarding the events that transpired Saturday night on Interstate 94.

The following is a statement from Governor Mark Dayton:

"The occupation and shutting down of Interstate 94 last night were unlawful and extremely dangerous. Twenty-one law enforcement officers were injured by rocks and other projectiles thrown at them by some of the protesters.

"I am deeply grateful for the heroic efforts of those men and women, who put themselves in harm's way last night to protect the safety of all Minnesotans. I thank them for their professionalism and persistent attempts to resolve the situation peacefully.

"I also thank the leaders, who were doing their utmost to stop this very dangerous escalation. Until then, the protests of the last few days have been lawful and peaceful. I thank everyone, who has shown restraint and tolerance.

"Again, I urge all Minnesotans to remain calm and peaceful during this very difficult time. I urge everyone exercising their First Amendment rights to do so lawfully and without endangering themselves or others."

The following is a statement from Lt. Governor Tina Smith:

"The many police officers, State Troopers, and Sheriff's deputies who worked throughout the night to keep people safe deserve our gratitude and respect. Their professionalism, courage, and commitment to ensuring the safety of everyone involved were crucial in resolving a very dangerous situation.
"Like the Governor, I thank the many protestors who have peacefully exercised their rights to free speech and assembly, with respect for the safety of others. I urge all Minnesotans who wish to express themselves to exercise this respect and restraint.
"Minnesota can and will be better. But it will take each of us working together in mutual trust and respect to create the change we want to achieve."

Source: http://mn.gov/governor/newsroom/#/detail/appId/1/id/248990
