Public Statements
IDEA
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 19, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


IDEA
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the pending matters be set aside and I be allowed to speak 10 minutes on another matter, and that the 10 minutes count against my hour under the cloture rules.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, on another matter, I am rising to support the conference report that is being proposed for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. I support this legislation. I commend the conferees for their efforts to streamline, make less bureaucratic and less time-consuming, the current IDEA legislation and its administration.
In Minnesota, my home State, special education teachers-in fact, some of our most experienced special education teachers-are leaving that field, leaving special education classrooms, because of the bureaucratic burdens, the time-consuming paperwork.
They lament the time they cannot spend in those classrooms, the time lost to working directly with schoolchildren, in order to have to comply with all of the State, Federal, and local school district reporting requirements.
Those reporting requirements are mostly well intended, and one layer of them is mostly necessary and appropriate. However, the second and the third layers of bureaucracy have become duplicative, redundant, excessive, and oppressive.
Sadly, previous attempts to "reform" this bureaucratic overload have resulted, according to many of the teachers in Minnesota, in more, not less, reporting requirements, more forms, more time required away from their classrooms and from their students. No one benefits from that bureaucratic overload-not the special education students, their families, the teachers, or the taxpayers.
Like too many other well-intended programs, we try to micromanage the process, rather than analyze the results. We tell educators, or other experts in their fields, how they ought to do their jobs, rather than telling them to do their jobs as efficiently and effectively as possible, and then report to us and to our constituents their progress-in this case, improving the educational attainments and ability of their students, and what they need from us to do their jobs even more effectively.
When IDEA was enacted back in 1975, there was opposition to it from some States and school districts and from some schools. But now, in my State, schools and teachers are committed to doing special education as well as possible. We need to get out of the way and let them do it. So I hope this legislation will be a step in that direction-better yet, two or three steps in that direction.
Something else we should do, though-and we should have done it long ago, and certainly have done it during the last 4 years I have been here-is fully fund the Federal commitment to IDEA, to fulfill a promise Congress made 29 years ago-29 years ago, when it passed the special education mandate. Congress back then promised the States, promised local school districts and, most important, promised the children and parents of America that they would pay for 40 percent of the cost of special education. When I arrived here 4 years ago, that percentage was only 13 percent, less than one-third of the amount promised 25 years before. To his credit, President Bush has proposed in each fiscal year an increase in the amount of Federal funding for special education. To our credit, we have passed those increases, and even somewhat more, so that this year the Federal funding for special education totals 19 percent of total spending nationwide, which is an improvement, but is still less than half of what was promised 29 years ago.
That broken promise by the Federal Government cost my State of Minnesota nearly $200 million this year. It has cost every other State special education funding. I am, frankly, mystified at why my five pieces of legislation-five times I have attempted to increase the Federal share of special education to that promised 40-percent level-have been defeated every time in the Senate. I am mystified-because I cannot believe that most other States and most school districts in America could not use that additional special education funding. In schools in Minnesota, the underfunding of the Federal share of special education results in local school districts having to make up those shortfalls either out of funding for other school programs for students, or by increasing local property taxes, because states and schools are being mandated by us to provide special education services. They are subject to lawsuits if they don't. But we are not providing them with the money to carry out that mandate.
This bill before us would not fully fund the Federal share for special education until the year 2011. Even then, that funding level is not assured. It may not be enough. It is not guaranteed. It is not made a requirement. The appropriations still have to come each year.
So we have, once again, evidence that we lack the proper priorities. We propose and pass tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, and the President proposes to make them permanent. Some colleagues propose eliminating the estate tax, which affects 2 percent of the people in America, by 2010, and to make that permanent starting in 2011. While some call that the death tax, special education is a life commitment, a lifesaving commitment. Yet, we will not make that lifesaving commitment to the schoolchildren of America.
I will try again next year, and I will keep on trying with my legislation to fully fund the Federal share of special education, which should be well within our reach financially. It is the right thing to do, and it is the necessary and moral thing to do, and it would serve well the interests of this Nation in the years ahead. I regret that it is not part of this conference report coming before us.
I yield the floor.
