Public Statements
Farewell
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Nov. 19, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


FAREWELL
Mr. DAYTON. Mr. President, I want to close by associating myself with the remarks of the Senator from California and her regards and respect to the other retiring Members, particularly Senator Edwards who has just spoken and has distinguished himself so impressively over the last year and half in the service of our country by seeking the Vice Presidency.
I am proud of my State of Minnesota. They cast by a majority over 100,000 votes for Senator Edwards and Senator Kerry, reflecting the wisdom of voters in the tremendous excitement of Senator Edwards and Senator Kerry. But Senator Edwards, in my personal experience, generated tremendous courage and enthusiasm in St. Paul, MN on Labor Day and on the Iron Range in Minnesota. He has a very bright future in whatever future endeavors.
I join my colleagues in expressing to his wife Elizabeth our prayers for a speedy recovery. I think that will be the result.
I thank the Senator for his outstanding service and as leader of our party and our country.
I also want to join my colleagues in expressing my highest personal regard for Senator Daschle. It is, like others, a hard time for me. It was very hard in the next day after the election to hear the results in South Dakota. I have always had and will continue to have the greatest respect for the democratic process in this country. It is the ultimate and appropriate judgment of the people. I felt that way even when I disagreed with the verdicts they rendered.
I must say to the very slightest of majority, the voters of my neighboring State in South Dakota, with all due respect to them and their rightful judgment, that in my humble opinion you were wrong. You cannot fully understand the extraordinary leader, the superb public servant, and the phenomenal human being you had in TOM DASCHLE as your Senator, and as all of us in his caucus knew we had in our Democratic leader.
What makes it so hard is he has been taken away from us despite our wishes, and taken away from the country. And it is very hard. It is hard, frankly, to hear all the false praise of someone who went beyond the boundaries of comity, of bipartisanship, of deserved respect for a leader, who campaigned against TOM, who violated the boundaries of his own State and disparaged him; and, most recently, the comments of the incoming chairwoman of the Republican Senate Campaign Committee which were untrue, unwarranted, and just plain foul. Tom Daschle has too much decency to say so.
That was the irony in and the indecency of those remarks. They were directed after the election, after the victory against the most decent man I have ever met in politics, TOM DASCHLE. He is a gentleman in the very best sense of that word: strong in his principles, firm in his convictions, fierce in his dedication to serving the people of South Dakota and their best interests, but a gentleman in his decency, his personal respect and the senatorial courtesies he extended to every one of his colleagues.
But TOM, being the man he is, would not want me to end on such a note. So I will not. I end by thanking him, thanking him for his leadership over the last 4 years, from the time during which I have been privileged to serve under his leadership, for mentoring me, giving me the opportunities I have had in committee assignments, to listening to me and offering his astute guidance and experience and wisdom. I thank him for showing me by his living example every day and every night in the Senate what it means to be a great Senator, what it entails, the dedication, the hard work, the hours, the travel; what it means when you can do what TOM DASCHLE has done for his State to save people's lives, to improve people's lives, create new opportunities for young and old, what he has done for his country, what he has done for people who are not his constituents who cannot even thank him and won't be able to vote for him. But that did not matter because he had the opportunity and he seized the opportunity to do things that benefited their lives.
Thank you, TOM DASCHLE. Thank you for being a superb leader. Thank you for being a great Senator. Thank you for being a phenomenal human being. I wish you well.
I yield the floor.
