Public Statements
Wolf Blitzer Reports - Transcript
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Oct. 13, 2004
Location:


CNN
SHOW: CNN WOLF BLITZER REPORTS 5:00 PM EST
October 13, 2004 Wednesday
HEADLINE: Bush, Kerry Prepare for Third Debate; Interview With Mark Dayton
BYLINE: Wolf Blitzer, Dana Bash, Candy Crowley, Fred Katayama, Carlos Watson, Jeff Greenfield, Brian Todd
GUESTS: Julie Gerberding, Rob Reiner, Mark Dayton, Ron Silver
BLITZER: And one man gaining some ground in a key battleground state. We have new polls straight ahead.
And laying it on the line-what each candidate must do tonight to win next month.
Reminder of the past-a mass grave unearthed in Iraq. Remains of women and children found, believed to be murdered by Saddam Hussein's regime.
And a CNN exclusive-I'll speak live with Senator Mark Dayton of Minnesota. He's shutting down his Capitol Hill office in Washington because of terror concerns around the U.S. election.
BLITZER: Welcome back to the Arizona State University here in Tempe, Arizona, the site of tonight's third and final presidential debate. I'm Wolf Blitzer reporting.
Senator Mark Dayton is a Democratic senator from Minnesota. Yesterday, he closed his Capitol Hill office in Washington until after the election, citing what he called top secret intelligence relating to national security. Senator Dayton is joining us live from Minnesota. Senator Dayton, thanks very much for joining us. How powerful was the information you received?
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D), MINNESOTA: Well, it was very powerful or I wouldn't have taken the very serious action that I did. Unfortunately, it's top secret classification so I can't discuss it. I wish it would be unclassified and everyone could read it and draw their own conclusions. But to me it was the only responsible action to take since I'm not going to be in Washington to share that elevated risk with my staff.
BLITZER: But you're telling your constituents, people from Minnesota, don't come to Washington, in effect, because its too dangerous right now. Is that what you're suggesting?
DAYTON: What I said in response to that question is that I would not bring my two sons to Capitol Hill between now and the election. So I'm not going to put other people's sons and daughters at a risk that I'm not there to share myself.
And no one can predict the future. I hope and pray that I'm wrong. But the consequences of acting and being wrong pale in comparison to the consequences that would occur if I were not to act and be wrong. And I have a moral responsibility to protect the lives and the security of my staff, as well as the constituents who might be visiting my Minnesota office.
BLITZER: As far as I could tell, you're the only member of the Senate who has reached this conclusion. No one in the House of Representatives has reached this conclusion.
I want you to listen to what Republican Congressman Peter King of New York state said earlier today on CNN.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. PETER KING ®, NEW YORK: Listen, I got the same briefing he did. So did 534 other senators and congressmen. Obviously, there's high threats to the country. New York and Washington are always in the crosshairs. There's no difference now than there was a month ago or two months ago. And why he's decided to do this, either he's, again, overreacting, whether he's showboating or what, I really don't know, but it's sending a terrible signal to the country and it's really an abdication of responsibility and leadership.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BLITZER: All right, what do you say to Peter King who says you're way overreacting?
DAYTON: Those are bravo words to make from hundreds or thousands of miles away from Washington. If we wanted to make a statement, I don't know what the congressman saw, I know what I saw and other senators read, then we should have stayed in session, as I believe we should have, right up until Election Day and made that statement ourselves to the country and to the world.
But I'm in Minnesota, the relative safety of my home state, as most members of Congress are now, between now and the election. To leave our young staffs there as human shields so we can make a statement I think is the height of irresponsibility.
BLITZER: We've spoken to Capitol Hill police, we've spoken to the Department of Homeland Security, the FBI, they all make the same point: Yes, there may be a general threat out there to Washington, to New York, to other places, but there's no specific credible threat to Capitol Hill that they know of. Do you know something that they say they don't know of?
DAYTON: Well, the report I read didn't identify specific location. But the 9/11 Commission concluded that the fourth hijacked plane on that date that crashed in Pennsylvania was returning to destroy the Capitol. And al Qaeda has a history of going back to those places where it's been unsuccessful and attempting again.
Your own newscast 10 days ago reported that al Qaeda's number two, Zawahiri, on an Islamic Web site is exhorting al Qaeda operatives to attack U.S. and British interests. That was the same pronouncement that preceded the bombing in Madrid, Spain, prior to that country's election.
I can't predict the future, I don't know what the future holds, but I do know that the safety and lives of my staff are my responsibility, and I'm not going to leave them there exposed to risks that I'm not there to take myself.
BLITZER: What about the argument that you're playing into the hands of terrorists, in effect they've won because you've shut down your office in the Russell Senate Office Building?
DAYTON: Well, the national debate we're talking about is protecting the security of all Americans. I don't have that enormous responsibility.
I do have the responsibility to protect the security of my own staff. Their lives are my responsibility. For me to be leaving them in Washington, on Capitol Hill, exposed to what I consider to be an unacceptable risk, knowing what I know about the situation, not sharing that with them, leaving for the relative safety of Minnesota, I think is immoral.
And that's the basis for my decision. And to take them out of the harm's way, as I can, is my responsibility.
BLITZER: Well, I know you're making these recommendations to people from Minnesota, your staff. What about the rest of us who live in Washington who aren't privy to the sensitive classified briefings that you're getting, the top secret information, what should we do?
DAYTON: I wouldn't advise anyone to visit Capitol Hill who wasn't required to do so between now and the election.
BLITZER: You wouldn't advise them to leave Capitol Hill or visit Capitol Hill?
DAYTON: I wouldn't advise them to visit Capitol Hill. People have to make their own decision. And, again, this is an extreme precaution that I hope and pray will prove to be unnecessary. But my two sons, I would not bring them to Capitol Hill between now and the election.
BLITZER: Senator Mark Dayton of Minnesota, thanks very much for joining us, and thanks for explaining your fears, your concerns.
DAYTON: Thanks for the opportunity.
