Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Committee on Armed Services
By: Mark Dayton
Date: Sept. 23, 2004
Location: Washington DC

September 23, 2004 Thursday
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
SUBJECT: GLOBAL POSTURE REVIEW OF UNITED STATES MILITARY FORCES STATIONED OVERSEAS
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR JOHN WARNER (R-VA)
WITNESSES: DONALD H. RUMSFELD, SECRETARY OF DEFENSE;
GENERAL RICHARD B. MYERS, USAF, CHAIRMAN, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF;
GENERAL JAMES L. JONES, JR., USMC, COMMANDER, UNITED STATES EUROPEAN COMMAND AND SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER, EUROPE;
ADMIRAL THOMAS B. FARGO, USN, COMMANDER, UNITED STATES PACIFIC COMMAND;
GENERAL LEON J. LAPORTE, USA, COMMANDER, UNITED NATIONS COMMAND, REPUBLIC OF KOREA/UNITED STATES COMBINED FORCES COMMAND, COMMANDER, UNITED STATES FORCES KOREA
LOCATION: 216 HART SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
SEN. MARK DAYTON (D-MN): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Gentlemen, I'd like to join with the others in saluting you and thanking you for your dedicated defense of our country and your leadership of-and I support your plan to consolidate our forces that are deployed worldwide. I look forward to the next phase of your recommendation, which is their reassignment to Minnesota. (Laughter.)
One of the ways we can, picking up on what Senator Graham said, reduce the pressures on our active forces as well as our reserves and our National Guardsmen and -women is to get the Iraqi forces to do what the military and security forces of any country under any form of government must do, which is to patrol their own streets and establish law and order and provide it and safeguard their highways and defend their borders.
And, Mr. Secretary, when you testified before this committee last February 4th, you stated that-this is a direct quote-"We have accelerated the training of Iraqi security forces, now more than 200,000 strong," a figure that was referenced in the documents provided then, actually I believe slightly before then, and subsequent to that statement that I've seen reconfirmed that figure. And then, to my knowledge, the first time it was stated publicly on September 14th, seven months later, is that that number is down now to 105,000 that are trained, equipped and manned up to-Iraqi security forces. And you describe-and I'm confused by what exactly this redefinition of what constitutes security forces are, but that's a big disparity, sir, from 206,000 down to 105,000.
SEC. RUMSFELD: Let me explain it as clearly as is humanly possible.
We said there were 206,000 security forces. Since then we have subtracted 74,000 Facility Protection Service people that are reporting to the various Iraqi ministries and are not classifying them as security forces. They obviously are providing security for facilities, but they're not police, they're not border patrol, they're not army, and they're not counterterrorism or National Guard activity. So that's one difference.
The other difference is within the 206,000, as we said, was a mixture of people that were trained and not trained. Now-the number we're using now is a hundred thousand today that are manned, trained and equipped.
They have the equipment, they have the appropriate training. There are more than that on duty, the ones who were not fully trained, or don't have full equipment. And that number is scheduled in January of '05 to be 145,000.
SEN. DAYTON: Thank you. Taking, then, that number, a hundred thousand that are now equipped and trained-and I don't know what the current estimate is of the insurgency forces, say, for example, under direct control of Zarqawi, with-if there are that number, though, I-I've never seen a published report of it, insurgent strength, estimated anywhere approximately that number, why aren't those security forces of Iraq in Iraq going after someone like that? And if he's holed up in somewhere like Fallujah, where he's reputed to be, if-if the intelligence tells you and them where he is, why aren't 50,000 or 75,000 or whatever number it takes going in there? I can understand why our forces should be respecting certain fights in that city or that country. But why aren't-why aren't they doing what they should be doing to protect their own country and stand up for it? And I guess as a corollary to that, as long as, you know, 138,000 of the best, most courageous fighting forces in the world, our own soldiers, and they're doing their work for them, what's to motivate them to take those positions instead?
SEC. RUMSFELD: There are currently about a hundred thousand Iraqi security forces, there are currently 138,000 U.S. forces, and about 23,000 coalition forces, for a total of 261,000. They are all engaged in providing security in that country.
You say why aren't the Iraqis doing anything? Well, the Iraqis --
SEN. DAYTON: I didn't say "anything", but I said why aren't they going after the --
SEC. RUMSFELD: Okay. I'll answer. Clock it. I'll answer.
The Iraqis have had 721 Iraqi security forces killed in the process of providing security in Iraq since May 1 of '03. They have had 678 killed since September 1st of '03.
SEN. DAYTON: We've had over a thousand of our forces killed.
SEC. RUMSFELD: Since the beginning.
SEN. DAYTON: Since '03.
SEC. RUMSFELD: A comparable number is that since May 1st of '03 the United States has lost 670, and the Iraqi security forces have lost 721. So they're not sitting in their barracks with their fingers in their ear, they're out there doing things. And it's tough. And they're getting killed. And they're getting wounded. And they're still standing in line to sign up to join the army and the police and the border patrol, because there's enough people in that country that want to provide the-secure the liberation of that country.
SEN. DAYTON: If there's a pocket of resistance-again, in Fallujah, I don't-that's one of the reports I've read, that are-whatever number, a couple thousand, whatever the number, I don't know, strong, and if that's where someone like Zarqawi is reputed to be holed up and operating from, then why aren't-again, whatever is necessary troop strength of the Iraqi forces going in there to wipe that force-strength out there, the insurgent strength out there?
SEC. RUMSFELD: The decision has been made to handle Fallujah the way it's been handled by the Iraqi political leadership in the country and the U.S. military leadership and political leadership in the country. As I indicated earlier, there-all of those individuals understand you cannot have a safe haven in Fallujah or anywhere else in that country over a sustained period of time.
Now given the fact that they understand that, it suggests to me that they will do something about that. The reason they did not do it at the time they were cocked and ready to do it, I believe-and Dick, you might want to comment on this-at that moment, the U.N. representative-I believe it was Mr. Brahimi-was in the process of putting together the government that would transition away from the Iraqi Governing Council to the Iraqi interim government. And the Governing Council that existed at that time and Brahimi, as I recall, were strongly opposed to doing anything at that moment.
SEN. DAYTON: What about this moment now, sir?
SEC. RUMSFELD: I think I'll leave that to the commanders on the ground. And I've already indicated to you they are fully aware you cannot leave a sanctuary in that country, and that is exactly what Fallujah is today.
SEN. DAYTON: General Myers ---
GEN. MYERS: Senator Dayton, let me just add-you focused on a really bad person, Zarqawi. And let me just assure you in this open hearing that we're doing all we can to take care of that situation. As the secretary said, we're going to leave that up to the operational commanders on the ground.
I will tell you, in the last two to three weeks, we've killed a handful-I think it's six-of his lieutenants. We continue to go after that organization very hard. It's a very dangerous organization. It's the one that we know in at least one case was responsible for the beheading, probably in the other cases as well. They have no respect for any human life-Muslim, Christian, Jewish, whatever, man, woman or child. This is a very, very bad threat. We understand that, and we'll take appropriate action.
SEN. DAYTON: My time has expired, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate your response. And I would just say, responding to my colleague, as Senator Graham and I understand the reservations about citing a period of time of four years, but as our colleague Senator McCain has greater expertise than I, has cited a possible period of time of U.S. force involvement there of 10 to 20 years; I would just submit, again, that if-in my view, as long as the Iraqis know that the best fighting forces in the world, our own, are going to be there doing the heavy lifting and the dying and the bleeding, and draining our own resources here, they're going to-you know, may not entirely, but they're going to be holding back from what any government, any country has to do with their own citizens, their own armed forces, which is to protect and defend their own country.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
GEN. MYERS: If we go back-Senator Dayton, if we go back to April and May, when we had the uprising by Sadr's militia, at that time we said the performance of the Iraqi security forces was certainly uneven. Very few units performed well, but some did. Most didn't.
One of the reasons they didn't-a couple of the reasons-is they did not have proper equipment at that point. They also did not have the proper leadership. And if we look at the same uprising around An Najaf this time, it was just a flip-flop. In fact, the estimate from the commanders in the field is that 70 percent of the Iraqi units that participated performed very, very well. Some did not perform well, but 70 percent did. So that situation is turning around.
We've got to do our job, which-our promise has been to properly train and equip them. And as the secretary said earlier, that's the easy part. It's the soft stuff. It's making sure they have the proper leadership and that leadership has a trail all the way up to the national level.
That still has to be accomplished. That is not accomplished at this point-working very hard to do that.
SEN. DAYTON: Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
