Public Statements
Issue Position: A Stronger Ohio Economy
Issue Position
By: John Carney
Date: Jan. 1, 2012
Location: Unknown

"We have people in this state who are unemployed and losing their homes. The rhetoric from last fall (2010) does not match our actions. Let's get back to the work the people want us to do and start focusing on jobs." - Rep. Carney
Third Frontier
Third Frontier is the $1.6 billion, 10-year program to develop Ohio biomedical, alternative energy, advanced materials, electronics and propulsion industries. In seven years the project has created 41,300 jobs and contributed $6.6 billion to Ohio's economy. The Ohio House and Senate gave bipartisan support to place a four-year extension of this important project on the ballot this past May. I cosponsored this extension and support Third Frontier as a critical economic extension initiative that requires no new taxes. In May, thanks to your vote, Third Frontier passed overwhelmingly.
HB 48 (129 GA): Internal Business Governance
I sponsored House Bill 48 with bipartisan support to attract companies and make Ohio more competitive. This new law makes Ohio's internal governance rules for businesses comparably flexible relative to other states, as it is important that our business entity laws are not an impediment to attracting and retaining businesses in Ohio. It was signed into law on February 2, 2012.
HB 166 (128 GA): Transportation Innovation Authorities (TIAs)
Rep. McGregor (R-Springfield) and I jointly sponsored HB 166 to create TIAs, a new tool to promote regional cooperation on transportation infrastructure investment. By helping local, regional and state governments work together on critical transportation projects, HB 166 will create jobs and add to Ohio's long-term economic competitiveness and growth.
HB 216 (128 GA): Professional Employer Organization (PEOs)
One of my priorities is to create jobs by supporting small businesses. I sponsored HB 216 with broad bipartisan support to spur continued growth in PEOs, an emerging industry in Ohio. By streamlining and improving regulations, the bill will stimulate continued growth and job creation. At the same time, it closes loopholes that allowed some unscrupulous PEOs to leave taxpayers to pay for unemployment claims.
HB 476 (129 GA): Local Government Job Fund
I co-sponsored House Bill 476 to create the Local Government Job Fund. This would provide funding to local governments for job creation, maintenance, and retention programs by requiring the Director of Budget and Management -- in any year that the state unemployment rate exceeds six percent -- to transfer other funds towards these purposes if they are available. This could allow fire fighters, police officers, and teachers to keep their jobs without increasing overall spending.

Source: http://www.votecarney.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=50&Itemid=59
