Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: European Trade Mission Strengthened Relationships, Made Case for Michigan's Aerospace Sector
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 23, 2017
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today said his investment trip has been productive in deepening relationships and making the case that Michigan is the best place for international businesses to expand, invest and create jobs. Snyder's delegation completed their investment mission to the International Paris Air Show this week with a stop in Germany and Italy.
Joined by Michigan economic development leaders, Snyder spent the final day of the weeklong trip in Cadorago, Italy meeting with leaders from Clerici-Sacco to discuss Michigan's focus on the agriculture and dairy sector, as well as related growth opportunities. Cerici-Sacco is a family-owned biotech company. The company's customers include dairy, nutraceutical and pharmaceutical companies.
"Michigan's food and agriculture history is a vital component of the state's economy. Our unique geography and climate provide an environment for a range of agriculture products," Snyder said. "Clerici-Sacco is a global biotech leader and this one-on-one meeting helped us lay the groundwork for a new relationship. I look forward to pursuing new opportunities with the company that will benefit Michiganders."
Snyder and his delegation spent Thursday in Germany visiting the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Labor and Transportation of Lower Saxony, Germany's second-largest state. Lower Saxony is a hub for mobility, agriculture and food industries and is Germany's leading agriculture export state. Olaf Lies, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Labor and Transportation, recently led a delegation to Michigan to visit the Detroit area and learn about Michigan's efforts in mobility and autonomous vehicle innovation.
The delegation spent the first part of the week meeting with French automotive companies and attending the International Paris Air Show, where they touted Michigan's position as the world capital of the automotive industry and as the ideal location for global aerospace companies to consider for expansion.
The trip marks the Snyder Administration's fifth mission to Europe. Other missions led by Snyder or Lt. Gov. Brian Calley have included China, Japan, South Korea, Canada, the Netherlands, Brazil, Mexico, Israel, Chile, Columbia, India, Switzerland, Ireland and Great Britain. The missions have resulted in hundreds of millions of dollars of investments in Michigan by foreign companies adding jobs to Michigan's workforce.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-424623--,00.html
