Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Issues Statement in Observance of 9/11 Anniversary
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 8, 2011
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder issued the following statement in observance of the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks:
"As we reflect on the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, our thoughts are with those who were lost and those who bear the physical and emotional wounds that have yet to heal.
"The attacks were sinister attempts to bring our nation to its knees. Instead, America stood tall. Regardless of background, race or religion, Americans from coast to coast reached out to each other with characteristic compassion and courage. Our hearts were broken but our spirit was strengthened. The images of that day are seared into our collective consciousness. So, too, are the countless examples of heroism by our police officers, firefighters and emergency responders, including those from Michigan who left the safety of their homes to assist battered comrades across the country. Amid the horror and devastation of that dark day, the greatness of our state and nation shined brightly.
"As we observe this solemn anniversary, it is appropriate that we look to the future as well. Let each of us commit to share our time and talents to build a stronger Michigan and America. I encourage everyone to heed the president's call to honor the victims by participating in charity or service projects. We also must strive to recapture the unity and shared determination that sustained our country in the aftermath of Sept. 11. We are moving forward together as Michiganders and Americans. As we do so, let us always be mindful of the ongoing sacrifices of our men and women in uniform. We owe them a debt that can never be fully repaid.
"The nation is still rebounding from the devastating attacks in many ways, especially economically. But there is no doubt that American innovation and resolve will ultimately persevere. Michigan will do its part. We will continue reinventing Michigan so our state reclaims its rightful leadership as an economic engine that fuels America's success. Our greatest reward, though, will come as the challenges we conquer today give way to a future in which our children can enjoy lives of peace, prosperity and security."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-261944--,00.html
