Public Statements
School Bus Safety Legislation Signed Into Law
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 14, 2011
Location: Unknown

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation targeting motorists who fail to exercise caution in school bus safety zones. He also signed legislation updating landline telephone service regulations.
House Bill 4168, sponsored by state Rep. Margaret O'Brien, doubles fines for moving violations committed in a school bus safety zone. The bill also makes it a one-year misdemeanor for injuring and a 15-year felony for killing a child getting on or off a school bus.
H.B. 4167, sponsored by state Rep. Tom McMillin, adds the new felony offense to Michigan's sentencing guidelines.
With these changes, moving violations committed in school bus safety zones will be treated similar to violations committed in work zones.
"This legislation sends a clear signal that it's not OK for drivers to disregard school bus safety zones," Snyder said. "Drivers need to take bus stop lights seriously."
The bills are now Public Acts 60 and 59 of 2011, respectively.
The governor also signed H.B. 4314, sponsored by state Rep. Ken Horn, which updates Michigan's landline telephone service regulations.
Although periodically updated, the last major re-write of the Michigan Telecommunications Act was in 2005, before the widespread availability of wireless and voice-over Internet service options led to a severe drop in the number of customers choosing landline telephone service. The updates are aimed at making landline telephone service more competitive.
Among the major changes, telephone companies offering landline service will no longer have to print and deliver telephone books for every customer. Instead, companies will provide free printed or electronic copies to customers by request.
"To make Michigan a competitive place to do business, we need to be relentless in our efforts to make sure our laws and regulations keep pace with changing technology," Snyder said.
The bill is now P.A. 58 of 2011.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,1607,7-277-57577_57657-257898--,00.html
