Public Statements
Governor Tours Battle Creek Neighborhoods, Commits Additional Resources to Aid Cleanup
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 5, 2011
Location: Battle Creek, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today committed additional state resources to assist the Battle Creek area's cleanup efforts in the wake of last week's severe storm. The state initially assisted by clearing roadways of debris so they were passable for emergency vehicles, but Snyder has determined that the severity of the storm damage requires even more help.
The authorization followed Snyder's tour of several affected neighborhoods with House Speaker Jase Bolger, state Sen. Mike Nofs and state Rep. Kate Segal.
"Battle Creek and other Calhoun County communities are doing their best to keep up but the damage is extensive," Snyder said. "This clearly is a time when the state and its local partners must pitch in and get things done for the sake of community residents. Visiting the affected neighborhoods and talking with residents provided me with a helpful perspective. It is apparent that despite the best initial efforts of local and state responders, more needs to be done. I appreciate the sincere concerns expressed by Speaker Bolger, Senator Nofs and Representative Segal for the welfare of their constituents. I also applaud the local and state employees who are working so hard to make these communities safe. We will continue working together to protect the health and safety of Calhoun County families."
The governor has instructed the Michigan Department of Transportation to dispatch four teams of personnel with heavy equipment to help with debris removal. Two teams will work with the city of Battle Creek and two teams will work in Calhoun County beginning in Emmett Township. The equipment will consist of front-end loaders and trucks.
The Michigan Department of Corrections also will make available supervised, nonviolent inmates to assist.
Snyder declared a state of emergency on May 31. Following the declaration, the state departments of State Police, Transportation, Natural Resources and Corrections deployed resources to affected areas to assist local response efforts, with their goal being to ensure that roadways were accessible for emergency personnel.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,1607,7-277-57577_57657-257321--,00.html
