Public Statements
Balanced and Early? Wow!
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: May 26, 2011
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder issued the following statement regarding the approval of Michigan's $46 billion ongoing base budget, which is truly balanced for the first time in years and is completed well in advance of his May 31 target date:
"This achievement underscores the power of Michigan. It proves there's nothing we as a state can't do when we chart a common course and pull together. Through cooperation, commitment and compromise, we have finalized a state budget earlier than has been done in the past 30 years. The gridlock and threats of government shutdowns that once tarnished Michigan's national reputation are yesterday's news. My partners in the Legislature and I did not come to Lansing for more of the same. We're focused on a positive, productive future for Michigan.
"This budget is a cornerstone of Michigan's resurgence. Unlike prior budgets, this one is structurally balanced and accurately reflects Michigan's fiscal realities. In fact, it actually contains $1.1 billion less in base spending than the current year budget. It was carefully and thoughtfully constructed to get Michigan's fiscal house in order by eliminating our nagging $1.5 billion deficit. The work we've done today makes it possible to reinvest tomorrow in core areas such as education.
"The courage and leadership that it took to reach this point must not go unrecognized. Lt. Gov. Brian Calley's tireless work was instrumental in this success. Senate Majority Leader Randy Richardville, House Speaker Jase Bolger and their colleagues stood tall as they put in long hours and made the difficult decisions necessary to move Michigan forward. It's also a tribute to the men and women across our state who were engaged in the process and made their voices heard. Their input had a genuine impact on this budget and we're a stronger Michigan for it.
"While we can all take pride in this achievement, it is not a license to become complacent. This is one more step in a long journey. We will use this momentum to continue creating an environment that will encourage job growth and put families back to work."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,1607,7-277-57577_57657-256918--,00.html
