Public Statements
Snyder Signs Legislation Bringing Michigan Into Compliance with Adam Walsh Child Safety and Protection Act
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 12, 2011
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation making changes to Michigan's sex offender registry system to bring it into compliance with the federal Adam Walsh Child Safety and Protection Act.
Michigan had to make the changes or else risk losing a portion of the federal funds for law enforcement the state currently receives through the Justice Assistance Grant Program. Justice Assistance Grants are used for everything from drug enforcement to crime victim initiatives.
Under the legislation sponsored by state Sens. Rick Jones and Phil Pavlov, Michigan will implement a tiered system for reporting based on the seriousness of an offense. The most serious offenders will still have to report four times a year and remain on the registry for life.
To comply with federal law, offenders on the sex offender registry list will now have to provide additional information beyond current requirements. This includes providing social security numbers, passport information, email addresses, vehicle information and employer information in order to make it easier for law enforcement to track offenders.
The legislation, which passed with strong bipartisan support, also removes many juveniles and other non-dangerous offenders from the public sex offender registry list, such as so-called "Romeo and Juliet" offenders - teenagers who have been convicted of statutory rape for consensual sex with their teenage partners. The changes are intended help residents identify dangerous members in their communities and give law enforcement the ability to better track them.
"This is important legislation because it makes sure Michigan gets its full share of critical federal support for local law enforcement activities that keep our communities safe," Snyder said. "These changes make sure the registry is used to better identify and protect the public from dangerous predators."
With the governor's signature, the changes will take effect July 1, 2011. Senate Bills 188, 189 and 206 are now Public Acts 17, 18 and 19.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,1607,7-277-57577_57657-254084--,00.html
