Public Statements
Extended Sentinel Site Program Shows Continuing Improvement in Flint Water System for Third Consecutive Time
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: July 29, 2016
Location: Flint, MI

Results from round three of the Extended Sentinel Site program in Flint continue to show a positive downward trend among homes more likely to contain high levels of lead, Gov. Rick Snyder said today.
"It's promising to see lead levels in Flint finally being more comparable to other municipalities across the state," Snyder said. "The federal action level under the Lead and Copper Rule is 15 parts per billion, so seeing a downward trend to below that level in Flint is very good news."
The program, which began last month, consists of more than 160 residences across the city that are most likely to have elevated lead levels in the water, including homes:
With known lead service lines;
That had service lines the state paid to replace under the mayor's Fast Start Program;
With copper and galvanized service lines found to have high lead levels during the initial sentinel program; and
From areas where the incidence of elevated blood lead levels were predicted to be higher.
Of the 167 samples taken in round three, more than 93 percent were at or below the lead action level of 15 parts per billion (PPB). The latest results are especially encouraging given the high temperatures during the testing period, which can increase the amount of lead that could potentially leach into the water. This is the third sampling round in a row in which the data meets the lead action level criteria under the federal Lead and Copper Rule (LCR).
The state continues to work closely with the city of Flint on spending the $27.5 million the state taxpayers have provided to replace lead service lines in the city.
The city, state and EPA encourage residents to continue using filters and to regularly replace cartridges to ensure proper filter maintenance. Government and independent scientists have reported that filters continue to be effective in the removal of lead, even at high levels or in the presence of lead particles.
Additionally, residents are urged to clean their faucet aerators on a routine basis and keep the water moving throughout their homes. Flushing faucets on a daily basis and cleaning faucet aerators weekly will help reduce the presence of lead.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-390099--,00.html
