Public Statements
Snyder Announces Federal Assistance for Small Businesses Lending Programs Will Increase Access to Credit
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 14, 2011
Location: Lansing, MI

Michigan small businesses seeking to grow will be more likely to qualify for loans even in the face of an ongoing credit crunch thanks to an infusion of cash from the federal government that will bolster the state's small business lending program, Governor Rick Snyder and the Michigan Economic Development Corporation announced today.
The federal funds are being made available through the State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI), part of the Small Business Jobs Act signed into law last October. Snyder made the announcement with U.S. Treasurer Rosa Rios at United Metal Products, a company that has benefited from the MEDC's supplier diversification fund program, predecessor of the Michigan Business Growth Fund on which the federal law is partly modeled.
"The problem in Michigan we're facing is that credit-worthy companies are unable to get loans because banks have tightened up lending," Snyder said. "This means small businesses that want to expand and hire can't get access to needed capital. Using the federal funds to insure against default will give banks more confidence and make them more likely to lend, which will spark job growth.
Michigan is the first state that will receive federal funds through the program, and will receive approximately $79.1 million to back small business loans.
"This is a big boost," Snyder said.
Previously, the MEDC's efforts have sparked loans of more than $191 million for small businesses on a public commitment of $20 million, which is expected to be recycled into the program with interest as loans are repaid. To date, the program has had no defaults and has generated an estimated 4-percent annual return for Michigan taxpayers.
Snyder, who served as the first chairman of the MEDC, thanked the organization for its effort.
"It's time to get the MEDC back to the basics of economic development so we can get people back to work," Snyder said.
The MEDC will use the federal funds to operate the Michigan Business Growth Fund and the Capital Access Program.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,1607,7-277-57577_57657-249510--,00.html
