Public Statements
Snyder Focuses on Jobs, Economy During Debate
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Oct. 11, 2010
Location: Wixom, MI

Snyder: One Chance to Reinvent Michigan
Offers positive vision, solutions to create more and better jobs
Snyder's proven record of creating jobs, getting results is what Michigan needs to fix "broken culture' in Lansing
Rick Snyder used tonight's gubernatorial debate to outline his positive vision and 10-point plan to reinvent Michigan by bringing back more and better jobs, replacing the state's job-killing business tax, demanding value for taxpayer-funded services and by vowing to bring Republicans and Democrats together to address the state's most pressing problems.
"The only label that matters is Michigander," Snyder said early on in the debate. "Michigan is an economic disaster and we need to come together on the fifty- to eighty-percent of issues that we all agree on. Our focus has to be on creating jobs and reinventing Michigan."
During his opening remarks, Snyder offered voters a clear choice and outlined specific details on how he would reform government and help create an economic environment where businesses can thrive and create jobs.
"Tonight there is a clear choice between a new, positive vision for Michigan's future or a continuation of the same old partisan politics," Snyder said. "I am a proven job creator with a detailed plan to get our economy back on track. We have one chance to reinvent Michigan."
Snyder focused on the issues most on voters' minds -- jobs and the economy -- and avoided assessing blame for Michigan's fiscal and political problems. Snyder also said he would end the political in-fighting and bickering that has stifled progress in Lansing for the last decade.
"Lansing has a broken culture and the only way we are going to change it is with leadership from the top that puts results above partisanship," Snyder said. "I don't care about credit; I want Republican and Democrat lawmakers to go home and be able to claim success for reinventing Michigan."
Snyder hit a lot of the same themes he talks about on the campaign trail, such as the need to replace the job-killing Michigan Business Tax with a flat 6-percent corporate income tax that will result in a net $1.5 billion tax cut for Michigan businesses. Under Snyder's plan, small businesses will pay no taxes at all.
Snyder also talked about his plan to make government more efficient by implementing Value for Money budgeting in which the success of government programs are evaluated based on measurable results, an idea he called common sense.
"We need to have a customer-service focused government that looks at the value we are providing taxpayers and not just the services it provides them," he said. "Funding a program just because it was funded the year before doesn't make sense. You wouldn't run your business or home budget that way and we shouldn't run our government that way, either."
Hitting another theme he often talks about on the campaign trail, Snyder pledged support for Michigan's central cities.
"Michigan cannot be a great state again until Detroit is a great city again," Snyder said.
Toward the end of the debate, Snyder said the choice is clear: "We have one chance in this election to radically reinvent our state. We need someone with real-world experience creating jobs. That's what I've done my whole life. I know what it takes to turn this economy around."
When Snyder was the head of Gateway, the company grew from a little more than 700 employees to more than 10,000. The Ann Arbor businessman also built several small companies from scratch, creating hundreds of jobs in Michigan and across the country.
Snyder said he would close out the fall campaign by talking directly with voters at a series of town hall meetings for which his campaign has become known. On Friday, Snyder held his 66 th town hall meeting in Washington Township in Macomb County that was attended by more than 500 people.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/michigan-talks/campaign-news/10-11-2010-snyder-focuses-jobs-economy-during-debate
