Public Statements
Snyder Unveils Plans To Help Michigan's Agriculture Industry Grow
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 27, 2010
Location: Ann Arbor, MI

Rick Snyder today unveiled detailed plans to help Michigan's agriculture industry grow and create jobs by speeding the permit process, reducing overly-burdensome regulations and expanding a program that helps farmers run environmentally-sound operations.
The announcement follows a week in which Snyder was endorsed by the Michigan Farm Bureau, the Michigan Agri-Business Association and a former Michigan Department of Agriculture director who served under both Governors Engler and Granholm.
"We have a real opportunity to strengthen the agriculture industry and create jobs by making a few common-sense changes to the way government operates," Snyder said. "Michigan's natural resources give us a competitive advantage over other states that enables us to compete on a global scale, but government is holding the agriculture industry back."
In a policy whitepaper available on his campaign website, Snyder proposes a series of reforms aimed at making government more focused on customer service and responsive to the needs of the farming community. The full plan is available to read or download at www.rickformichigan.com.
"If the state doesn't take action on a permit in a set amount of time, it should be approved automatically unless there is a compelling reason not to. When companies thinking about coming to Michigan find out it took 13 years for a fruit juice company to finally get approval to build a new production plant, those jobs are going to go somewhere else," Snyder said.
In addition to setting deadlines for automatic approval, Snyder, who has been a frequent critic of the lengthy delays and uncertainty Michigan's permit process is known for, wants the state to fast track the approval process for those who have a history of complying with regulations.
Snyder said regulations must be clear and based on sound science. He also said regulations need to be scale appropriate, noting there is a difference between what small family farmers and large operations can afford.
"Farmers are the original conservationists -- they have a vested interest in protecting the land," Snyder said. "Instead of burdening them with regulations and hitting them with fines, we should work with them to find ways to protect the environment."
Snyder's policy whitepaper reiterates his previously-announced support for expanding the Michigan Agriculture Environmental Assurance Program (MAEAP). Despite encouraging conservation activities on more than 265,000 acres of Michigan farmland, that program was put on the chopping block by lawmakers and the current governor.
"Value for Money budgeting means you stop funding programs that don't work and start putting resources behind programs that do. This is a successful program that is working in cooperation with farmers to protect the environment and delivering real value to taxpayers," Snyder said.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/michigan-talks/campaign-news/09-27-2010-snyder-unveils-plans-help-michigan%E2%80%99s-agriculture-industry-gr
