Public Statements
Snyder Taps Calley For Lieutenant Governor
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 25, 2010
Location: Grand Rapids, MI

In Calley, Snyder Sees 'Partner' Who Will Help Break Lansing's Partisan Log Jam And Reinvent Michigan
Rick Snyder today sent a clear message that Michigan needs a fresh start by naming 33-year-old state Rep. Brian Calley as his pick for lieutenant governor during a town hall meeting at the Grand Rapids Public Museum.
Snyder said he was impressed by Calley's grasp on the challenges facing the state and his experience working on tough issues.
"I was looking for a partner, not just a running mate. Brian Calley will help seize our one chance to Reinvent Michigan," Snyder said. "He's someone who shares my positive vision for Michigan's future. He's someone who can hit the ground running on Day One and help shoulder the load of working with the Legislature to reinvent our state."
Calley, of Portland, is a relatively new face to the Michigan political scene, currently serving his second term in the state House. Well-respected and a proven conservative, he has repeatedly demonstrated his ability to work with both Republican and Democrat lawmakers to find common-sense solutions.
"With Rick Snyder, I think we have a real chance to finally break the partisan logjam in Lansing, and I want to be part of that," Calley said. "Rick's positive message is setting the right tone for getting things done. I am honored to be Rick Snyder's partner in helping reinvent Michigan."
Snyder said he knew Calley was the right person for the job after meeting with him.
"Brian is a family man and a man of integrity. He wants to make Michigan a place where his kids can grow up, get a good education and find a job instead of having to move to Chicago or Texas. He wants what all of us want -- he wants Michigan to succeed," Snyder said.
As a former banker and member of the House Tax Policy Committee, Calley has been involved in some of the most complex legislation lawmakers have worked on in recent years. He earned some name recognition statewide for leading the fight to prevent property taxes from going up when property values go down and holding meetings showing homeowners how to appeal their property taxes.
Calley made national news last year when he stood up to the government for a family accused of running an unlicensed, illegal day care because they babysat their neighbor's children -- without accepting payment -- while they waited for the school bus in the morning.
Calley recently won a landslide victory in a hard-fought primary election in the highly-conservative 33rd Senate District, but he will have to forgo that campaign in order to run for lieutenant governor.
Calley is married to Julie Calley, who is an Ionia County Commissioner. They have three children. Calley is a graduate of Michigan State University with a degree in business administration and holds an MBA from Grand Valley State University.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/michigan-talks/campaign-news/08-25-2010-snyder-taps-calley-lieutenant-governor
