Public Statements
The Detroit Free Press - Snyder Pushes Crowd To Think Reinvention
News Article
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 18, 2010
Location: Unknown

By Kathleen Gray
Without mentioning any names, Republican gubernatorial candidate Rick Snyder said the choice on Nov. 2 is clear.
"It's now down to two of us. If you like how our government works, how our political system works, I encourage you to look at the other candidate," he said of his Democratic opponent, Lansing Mayor Virg Bernero. "He loves that world. He comes from that world."
But he asked a crowd of about 200 people at a Tuesday night town hall meeting in Chelsea whether they thought Michigan's government was broken. The heads nodded in agreement before he said, "I'm running to serve as the catalyst. Fixes are not good enough."
Thus began the general election campaign season, with a meeting in a cramped but quaint train depot.
Snyder wasn't the typical Republican. He exhorted the crowd to think about reinvention. He didn't talk guns or abortion or taking away benefits from retirees and public employees.
Instead, Snyder talked about collaboration, negotiation and creating the most nimble government in the country.
"We have to take action that's meaningful, measurable and positively impacts real people," he said. "That's what counts."
The message struck a chord with Rick Monier, 66, of Chelsea, who supported Snyder in the primary and is happy to stick with him through the general election Nov. 2. "He's a breath of fresh air, and we've been choking for a long time in Michigan," Monier said.
His wife, Diane Monier, 52, said she's especially impressed that Snyder, since he hasn't accepted political action committee donations, isn't beholden to anyone.
Snyder's message was familiar and virtually unchanged from the plans he has talked about at 52 other town hall meetings: Eliminate the Michigan Business Tax and replace it with a 6% corporate tax; streamline regulatory constraints against businesses, and help Michigan grow by encouraging small businesses to thrive in the state rather than using out-of-whack tax incentives to go after big out-of-state businesses.
But he also answered questions that might make conservatives, many of whom backed other GOP candidates in the primary, squirm.
He said Michigan can't survive without a strong Detroit. When asked about whether he supported right-to-work legislation, which would allow employees to opt in or out of union membership, he said it wasn't a priority because it was too divisive an issue in difficult economic times.
And when a woman told him she wouldn't support him if he planned to cut retiree health benefits, Snyder said there needed to be a discussion about what was affordable in a state wracked by unemployment and declining revenues.
After the meeting, Snyder told reporters he's looking forward to several debates, all of which he wants to happen in September, before absentee voters cast their ballots; narrowing his list of lieutenant governor candidates, and planning as many town halls as can fit into his campaign schedule.
"It's the best way to communicate with people," he said.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/michigan-talks/campaign-news/08-18-2010-case-you-missed-it-snyder-pushes-crowd-think-reinvention-det
