Public Statements
Rick Snyder Endorsed By Business Leaders For Michigan
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 5, 2010
Location: Ann Arbor, MI

Today, in response to receiving the endorsement from Business Leaders for Michigan, Rick Snyder released the following statement:
"I am proud to have the support of Business Leaders for Michigan. Revitalizing our state's economy will require working with job creators to ensure Michigan's businesses are able to expand and create jobs for our hundreds of thousands of unemployed," said Rick Snyder. "Business Leaders for Michigan is an organization that understands what needs to be done to make our state competitive again in the national and global markets. We share a vision for the future of Michigan and they have excellent points in their plan on how to turn our state around. I look forward to working with business and labor leaders across the state to limit the burden on our job creators, strengthen our work force and get government out of the way. We need to allow Michiganders to get back to work."
Rick's plan to reform Michigan's business climate and spur job creation are available on his webpage at www.rickformichigan.com.

About Rick's Plan To Reform Michigan's Business Climate

Replacing the Michigan Business Tax with a flat corporate tax will reduce the state's tax burden, stimulate the economy, and create jobs.

Businesses should not have to navigate a complicated and unfair tax code that was written by politicians. Instead, they should be able to simply take their federal corporate taxable income and multiply it by a low single-digit rate. Rick Snyder proposes that the Michigan Business Tax (MBT) be replaced with a flat corporate income tax -- a simple solution that will amount to a tax cut of likely more than $1 billion.

The current regulatory environment makes it frustrating, time-consuming, and costly to do business in Michigan.
Every state has to manage a regulatory environment with federal and local regulations, but Michigan's process is failing businesses and bureaucrats are overly enforcing regulations to raise new revenue. The excessive focus on enforcement and frivolous administrative delays make it nearly unbearable to do business. Iowa and Indiana have both streamlined approval processes, with a great deal of success.
Regulations need to take into account the economic impact and be based on sound science.
Michigan should follow Virginia, one of the most business-friendly states, and require an Economic Impact Analysis (EIA) that summarizes the costs and benefits of the proposed regulation, outlines potential unintended consequences, and identifies any less costly or less intrusive alternatives.
Businesses should be treated like customers -- compliance should be made simple and easy.
The majority of Michiganders want more jobs and a clean environment and government should treat them accordingly. Businesses should have access to standard applications, "compliance toolkits," compliance assistance representatives, an automatic approval timeline and a permit tracking system. Departments and agencies should benchmark and report the results to citizens.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/michigan-talks/campaign-news/08-05-2010-rick-snyder-endorsed-business-leaders-michigan
