Public Statements
Rick Snyder Delivers Victory Address To Supporters
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 4, 2010
Location: Ann Arbor, MI

After winning the GOP Primary, Rick Snyder addressed a crowd of hundreds at a victory party in Ypsilanti. The transcript of Rick's speech is below:
"Thank you. Alright. Let's go. Thank you very much, this is awesome. When we started a year or so ago, they said we had no chance. But we rallied together as a team. We made it work by having a vision, a plan and an attitude of action to reinvent Michigan. You worked hard, we worked hard as a team. And Michigan has spoken. And we got a new definition for a nerd, don't we? Seriously, tonight we have take a giant step forward for Michigan. This campaign has been about creating jobs for Michigan. Where all Michiganders can win together.
"Let me share some thank you's. First, let me thank my opponents. They are good hardworking people that ran a good race and we welcome them to join us. Then I have some special thanks. To the woman that started all of this! So when you go out to dinner with your spouse and she says "we need to talk" they can be good words.
"And I need to thank the children. They have been awesome. To Jeff, Melissa and Kelsey thank you for your effort. Jeff has been volunteering on the campaign, Melissa turned 18 and voted for her first time today. And everyone knows Kelsey can roll her eyes better than anyone. And I need to thank the entire campaign team and the volunteers who were the most positive, wonderful people.
"And I want to give some special thanks to some people. To Governor Milliken for his endorsement, to Bill Ford for his endorsement, to Joe Schwarz and his support and Jerry Zandstra for being an early adopter and helping make this happen. And a speial mention to all those early adopters, who joined me when we were in the margin of error. A special thanks, we made it happen.
"Let me talk about why we are doing this, though. Michigan is an economic disaster. We need to focus in on jobs. We have a broken government. Special interest have too much influence. We have too much partisanship, and it's time for bureaucracy to go away. And finally, we have a broken culture. We have been beaten up for a lot of years. You are tha catalyst, the core of bring that entrepreneurship and innovation back to Michigan. But as you know, I hate talking about problems. Let's talk about solutions!
"It is time for positive solutions and that's what our plan talks about with ten points. Let's replace the MBT with a flat 6% corporate income tax. We need to reform our regulatory environment and realize Michigan's economic recovery will be Michiganders coming together and creating small businesses. In our government, it is time for customer service government where you are the customers. It is time for Value for Money budgeting that shows real results for real people. And on our culture, it's time to create that common ground where all Michiganders will be represented and win.
"Now we are going into the general election. We will face the same challenge. For people who believe our government system works well, our political system works well, vote for the other candidate. For people who believe our government is broke, our political system is broke, it is time for a catalyst. I want to represent you, as someone from the real world showing up to Lansing with real worlds results. It is time to start looking to the future, out the windshield, and stop looking through the rear view mirror. And what is out that windshield? It's the era of innovation, it's Michigan 3.0. And what is that era, it's bringing the entrepreneurial spirit back, that innovation, that spirit of innovation that's in each one of us.
"By doing that, we will have a globally diverse economy and increased prosperity to our families. It's about quality of life, our natural resources, we will protect them. Enhance them, protect them and market them better. And we will restore our center cities! We will get Detroit and our cities on a positive path. The third pillar, it's absolutely critical and we wont forget. It's refreshing seeing so many young faces here. We will create an environment where our young people can stay and will stay and have a family and a career. Part of it is creating a new culture. And part of that is overcoming old barriers. Old barriers of win lose attitude, we will overcome the barriers of partisanship, the barrier of geography, of wat aprt of the state youa re from. Racial and ethnic barriers.
"We will create an environment where management and labor can work together and solve problems together. That's the attitude we will bring. It is time for Michiganders to work and win together, and by doing that. We will create more and better jobs, we will create a place for our young people and we will bring that attitude, that spirit of innovation and we will be a great state again, so let's go get em! Thank you, thank you very much."

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/michigan-talks/campaign-news/08-04-2010-rick-snyder-delivers-victory-address-supporters
