Public Statements
Issue Position: Protect Michigan's Environment
Issue Position
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

The goal of protecting Michigan's environment is to ensure that future generations can enjoy the same awe inspiring natural resources that we're enjoying today and to support our economic recovery. This is not a partisan or political effort-it's about the preservation of the fabric that makes our state great. It's about protecting and enriching Michigan's soul. -Rick
Michigan needs to be a national leader and innovator in protecting the environment. Michigan is blessed with natural resources that serve as the foundation for the quality of life of our citizens, contribute to the economic vitality of our state, and offer a competitive advantage as we transition into a new era. The state must make smart investments and develop long range plans focused on safeguarding its citizens, protecting the environment, and ensuring that Michigan's natural treasures are preserved for future generations. Michigan must also support industries like agriculture, tourism, outdoor recreational activities, and renewable energy.
Career politicians are jeopardizing our resources and compromising our reputation as a leader in environmental stewardship. In recent years, a lack of leadership has allowed Michigan to become more reactive than proactive in protecting the environment and positioning the state for future success. The ongoing state budget crisis has destabilized funding for critical conservation and preservation efforts and is threatening federal funding. Unless Michigan makes environmental protection a priority again, federal matching funds could be jeopardized and the state could lose the authority to administer environmental programs to the federal government.
Public and private partnerships provide a sustainable funding model to stem the tide. State government needs to build partnerships with local governments, private businesses, non-profits, and citizens to preserve and protect our environment. Michigan's research universities and talented professionals need to be leveraged as part of a comprehensive plan to safeguard our communities when unforeseen environmental hazards occur. Public and private partnerships should not only help with funding but also monitor the environment, identify potential threats before they occur, and swiftly deal with incidents that do occur.
The state needs a systematic approach for managing and safeguarding natural resources against environmental threats. Limited financial resources require Michigan to have consistent and reliable conservation strategies to efficiently and effectively deal with environmental threats. The four step process that should serve as the framework for protecting Michigan for future generations includes 1) Prevention, 2) Early Detection, 3) Rapid Response Mechanism, and 4) Management.
Rick Snyder is the right leader to help protect the environment while growing the economy. As a member of the board of trustees of the Michigan Chapter of the Nature Conservancy, Rick has gained great insight into the issues facing Michigan and the role that the state should play in the Great Lakes Region. As an entrepreneur, Rick understands how to quickly and efficiently transfer technology from the classroom to the marketplace, which will help protect Michigan's environment and create "green collar" jobs.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/vision-plan/policy-central/protect-michigans-environment
