Public Statements
Issue Position: Central Cities
Issue Position
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

Revitalizing Michigan's Central Cities is essential to the economic recovery of our state. With vibrant cities that have both economic opportunity and offer a great quality of life, our state will be positioned as a world leader again. As Governor, I will provide the leadership and vision necessary to support the restoration of our cities and control urban sprawl. -Rick.
Michigan economic future depends on having strong, vibrant cities. For Michigan to be a world leader again, the state's central cities need to be revitalized into vibrant places where families want to visit, work, and live. For Michigan to become a great state again, its central cities must become communities of opportunity with positive reputations. With vibrant cities and Michigan's existing world-class university system, the state will retain more of the best and brightest needed to compete in the global knowledge-based economy.
Michigan's cities have become ground zero in the economic recession -- poor planning and a lack of leadership haven't helped. Michigan's cities have been ground zero for this recession and they must become ground zero for Michigan's recovery. All of Michigan's major cities have been rocked by high unemployment rates, foreclosures, and uncertain economic prospects that have made the last decade one of the most dismal times in the state's history. The dire situation has also damaged Michigan's reputation. Throughout the past decade gimmicks like "Cool Cities" have been offered as stop-gap solutions while there hasn't been a long-term vision or consistent focus on central cities from state leadership.
Michigan needs to eliminate the regional win-lose mentality and rid its cities of waste and corruption. Regional leaders need to understand that the win-lose mentality and unhealthy competition for business and development with other regions damages the overall reputation of the state. They need to understand that the well-being of the entire state depends on the success of all of Michigan's central cities. Michigan needs to foster a culture of honest, ethical behavior in all levels of government that will not tolerate fraud, waste, and abuse.
Michigan must properly plan growth, offer incentives to youth, combat poverty and crime, restore funding for the arts and invest in infrastructure and mass transit. Michigan needs to address urban sprawl with smart growth strategies would offer tax credits as an incentive for young professionals who choose to live and work in the city, like Maine has successfully done. The state also needs to work closely with local agencies and encourage community collaboration to make Michigan's cities safer, fight poverty and help those in need. Michigan needs to invest in the arts and cultural community -- which generate nearly $2 billion annually. Michigan must prioritize investment in the state's crumbling infrastructure and develop a long-range transportation plan that includes mass transit without increasing the burden on taxpayers.
Rick Snyder is prepared to lead the effort to revitalize Michigan's central cities. Rick Snyder grew up in Battle Creek and lived in Detroit during tough economic times. His success in nurturing businesses and creating jobs in the knowledge-based economy as well as his community leadership demonstrates that he understands where the future of our cities lies. Rick Snyder is the only candidate qualified to lead our central city revitalization efforts and focus solely on what's best for Michigan's future.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/vision-plan/policy-central/central-cities
