Public Statements
Issue Position: Value for Money Budgeting
Issue Position
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

It's time for the citizens to take back control of Michigan's broken budget process and Lansing to show us real value for money. As Governor, I will fix our broken budget system and bring fiscal responsibility, stability, transparency, and the citizens' priorities to state government. -Rick.
What Value For Money Budgeting is: The citizens of Michigan ought to have the first say in how their tax dollars are spent, and the state must ensure its citizens actually get what they pay for. Value For Money budgeting accomplishes this. It's an innovative approach to budgeting that begins by asking citizens how their tax dollars should be spent and setting tangible ways to measure the success of every state program.
How Value For Money budgeting differs from Michigan's current broken system: In Michigan today the budget system is a tool of special interests and lobbyists who don't care -- or even ask -- what Michiganders want. They use money and political favors to influence Lansing into spending state dollars on their priorities. The result is a spending plan with no connection to the needs of our state. Poor fiscal management and a lack of oversight mean the people of Michigan never even know whether they receive the services their tax dollars supposedly pay for.
Why Value For Money budgeting works: Value For Money works because it takes the budget-writing process out of Capitol building backrooms and puts it into our communities. It's a system that: 1) puts citizens first in determining budget priorities, 2) determines what a successful budget would look like, 3) selects effective strategies for achieving citizens' budget goals, 4) examines state government to ensure services are being delivered in the most efficient -- and cost-effective -- way, 5) takes a multi-year view rather than a short-sighted one, 6) sets real measures for whether money is paying for what was intended, and 7) regularly reports back to the citizens so they can hold government accountable.

Source:
