Public Statements
Issue Position: Regulatory Reform
Issue Position
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

As Governor, I will reform Michigan's regulatory envrionment so that it facilitates economic growth while protecting our citizens and environment. Regulations need to be based on sound science and economics and shouldn't be burdensome on job providers. Rather than focusing on enforcement, we need a fair and efficient system that focuses on helping citizens comply -Rick.
Michigan needs to reform the regulatory system so that it grows the economy while it protects citizens and the environment. Michigan's regulatory system should make it easy for businesses to comply and should focus on helping job providers create and grow their businesses, while protecting citizens and the environment at the same time.
The current regulatory environment makes it frustrating, time-consuming, and costly to do business in Michigan. Every state has to manage a regulatory environment with federal and local regulations, but Michigan's process is failing businesses and bureaucrats are overly enforcing regulations to raise new revenue. The excessive focus on enforcement and frivolous administrative delays make it nearly unbearable to do business. Iowa and Indiana have both streamlined approval processes, with a great deal of success.
Regulations need to take into account the economic impact and be based on sound science. Michigan should follow Virginia, one of the most business-friendly states, and require an Economic Impact Analysis (EIA) that summarizes the costs and benefits of the proposed regulation, outlines potential unintended consequences, and identifies any less costly or less intrusive alternatives.
Businesses should be treated like customers -- compliance should be made simple and easy. The majority of Michiganders want more jobs and a clean environment and government should treat them accordingly. Businesses should have access to standard applications, "compliance toolkits," compliance assistance representatives, an automatic approval timeline and a permit tracking system. Departments and agencies should benchmark and report the results to citizens.
Rick Snyder has the right experience to deliver real reform with the regulatory environment. Rick Snyder has started and grown Michigan businesses and understands why the regulatory environment needs to change. He has also been a leader in the environmental community and will work hard to ensure that citizens and the environment are protected as he works to make it easier for the economy to grow.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/vision-plan/policy-central/regulatory-reform
