Public Statements
Issue Position: Aquatic Invasive Species
Issue Position
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

Protecting Michigan's environment is the right thing to do. Jobs, the economy and our quality of life are threatened by aquatic invasives and Michigan needs to pursue long-term solutions that protect the sanctity of the Great Lakes. As Governor, I will build regional cooperation and implement my proactive plan for safeguarding Michigan.
Aquatic invasives pose a significant threat to Michigan's economy and quality of life. The Great Lakes are threatened by over 180 types of aquatic invasive species and the region lacks a comprehensive strategy to mitigate risk and manage emerging threats. In Michigan, recreational fishing, hunting, and boating activities contribute more than $3 billion annually to the state's economy. People from all over the world spend countless hours every year enjoying Michigan's vast coastlines and numerous inland lakes with their families and friends. Asian carp and other aquatic invasives have the potential to drastically affect the quality and diversity of Michigan's ecosystem. If significant efforts are not made to address the issue of invasives now, then a "day at the beach" in Michigan will become an experience to forget instead of one to treasure.
Career politicians have failed to establish consistent measures to safeguard the environment against recurring threats. Michigan needs leadership that can develop and implement a plan to safeguard our environment. Years of indecision and budget problems have left the state vulnerable to invasive species, and a lack of federal oversight to help manage environmental threats has deepened the problem. In the past decade, career politicians involved in state leadership have not shown the initiative or drive to address many important environmental concerns, and that needs to change. While recent statewide discussions have begun to look at the impact of certain aquatic invasives (like the Asian carp), Michigan's career politicians are still missing the opportunity to have a longer-lasting impact by focusing on invasives in general.
Incorporating a deliberate and consistent process to safeguard Michigan's resources will help Michigan's ecosystems to remain diverse and prosper for years to come.
Michigan needs to take a systematic approach to managing and safeguarding its natural resources against aquatic invasive threats. Limited financial resources require the state to have consistent and reliable conservation strategies. A four-step process should serve as the framework for protecting Michigan for future generations. These steps should include prevention against future threats, early detection of threats as they enter the state's ecosystems, a rapid response mechanism to eventually eradicate harmful invasives, and a plan for the management of those species that are too pervasive to completely eradicate.
Rick Snyder's leadership can bring about the change necessary to preserve Michigan's rich environmental history. As a member of the Board of Trustees of the Michigan Chapter of The Nature Conservancy, Rick has gained a unique perspective on the problems facing Michigan's environment and many potential solutions to protect Michigan against future environmental threats. Rick is an outdoorsman at heart and fully appreciates the natural wonders of Michigan's Great Lakes, rivers, and streams and is committed to keeping them intact for future generations to enjoy.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/vision-plan/policy-central/aquatic-invasive-species
