Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Appoints Heidi Grether to Lead Department of Environmental Quality
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: July 14, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Heidi Grether of Williamston will lead Michigan's Department of Environmental Quality, Gov. Rick Snyder announced today. She will succeed interim director Keith Creagh, who will return to his post as director of the Department of Natural Resources.
"Heidi has decades of experience in environmental quality issues, and has effectively served during times of crises and recovery," Snyder said. "Her expertise in delivering good customer service from a large organization will be of great value as we continue working to reinvent the department and act more proactively to address issues that arise.
"I want to thank Keith Creagh for managing the DEQ during the last six months. He stepped into this role during a very challenging time and has worked tirelessly to improve internal operations as well as share his expertise on the ground in Flint to aid in water quality improvement. I will always be grateful for his leadership."
Currently, Grether serves as the Deputy Director at the Michigan Agency for Energy, where she managed the state response to federal carbon rule requirements. Prior to joining MAE, Grether worked for BP America, where she helped to lead Gulf Coast restoration efforts. She has also served as staff in both chambers of the Michigan Legislature, including as legislative director for former Speaker Paul Hillegonds.
Grether holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Public Administration and a Master of Science in Natural Resource Economics and Policy, both from Michigan State University. She is an active member of many environmental advocacy organizations, including the Michigan Nature Association, the Nature Conservancy and the American Bird Conservancy.
This appointment is effective Aug. 1, 2016 and is subject to the advice and consent of the state Senate.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-388588--,00.html
