Public Statements
Issue Position: Bringing Winning Back to Michigan
Issue Position
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

Reinventing Michigan is going to require a change in culture and mindset. As Michiganders, we have to begin to take pride in small victories as we take steps to forward our state. We need to work across regional and political lines and avoid the win/lose mentality that brings our entire state down. -Rick.
Michigan's reputation has fallen along with its economic decline. It will not be easy, but Michigan has the potential to be the comeback story of this era. Our history is one of innovation, resilience and a shared work ethic that has been the envy of the world. This is the state that built America's middle class and inspired the American Dream. We rose to the top before and we can do it again.
Michigan has been on the receiving end of bad news and publicity for too long. For the last several years, Michigan has been on the receiving end of bad news and negative publicity. The state's current economic crisis cannot be ignored and much of the bad news is based on fact. However, the constant negative drumbeat can eventually take its toll on citizens, causing many to believe that the state is in permanent decline with little or no hope of revival.
Empty promises and divisiveness won't solve our state's problems. This isn't the time for empty promises. "Happy talk" won't solve our state's problems. Only action will -- which is why we need a little less talk and a lot more action. We need to take steps forward in a positive direction and it's obvious that career politicians aren't up to the task. We must also recognize the lingering effects of old divides. We cannot afford the various forms of internal competition and the win/lose mentality that has been with us for too long. Our collective actions should be predicated on the understanding that we all populate this great state together and our future largely depends on the success of all our citizens and communities.
Michigan needs to take action -- and turn great challenges into great opportunities. When it comes to economic development, adopting the reforms Rick has proposed, notably those focused on reforming the MEDC combined with regulatory reform and the elimination of the MBT, will allow our existing businesses to grow. As job growth occurs and new businesses relocate to Michigan, all of us will experience a renewed sense of pride. Detroit offers a great opportunity. With new city leadership in place and with appropriate help from state government, the process of central city renewal can begin -- this time in a sustainable way. By adopting youth-friendly policies and programs we can begin to keep them here.
Michigan needs victories, both large and small, and Rick is the leader to get the job done. We need victories, both large and small. Along the way a culture is changed. People come to believe that continuing economic improvement is not only possible, it's actually taking place. More people decide to stay in Michigan to give this great state another chance. Rick's vision is for a government that listens to the people, asks them to help set priorities, operates in a fully transparent manner and measures actual results against agreed-upon objectives. That will help citizens develop a sense of confidence and responsibility for their state. With confidence comes a winning attitude. It does not result from one spectacular success. It is built up over time, the product of multiple successes, each one demonstrating that "team Michigan" is growing stronger, more competent and more competitive.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/vision-plan/policy-central/bringing-winning-back-michigan
