Public Statements
Issue Position: Reform Michigan's Educational System
Issue Position
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

Michigan's reinvention and economic transformation can't be accomplished without focusing on educating next generation of great minds. As Governor, I will ensure that Michigan's children have the best possible preparation and education for life that enables them to compete and innovate in tomorrow's global knowledge-based economy. -Rick.
Transforming Michigan's educational system is essential to prepare our children to compete globally in a knowledge-based economy. The long-term economic success of a region or state depends on its ability to educate, prepare, and train the next generation of workers. Michigan needs a smart, nimble, and innovative workforce that can adapt to the needs of the knowledge-based economy and compete with anyone in the world. Transforming our current educational system so that it thrives in today's economy will take a significant amount of time and effort, but Michigan can't afford to delay any further.
Michigan has spent a lot on education in recent times without a good return on investment. The American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) ranked Michigan 42 nd nationwide in its most recent report card on American schools, down from 22 nd in 2002, despite student expenditures and teacher compensation that scored in the top 20%. Michigan's performance fell behind other states in the Great Lakes Region.
Michigan needs to adopt a "P-20" model, reduce overhead costs, track real results, reward good performance, handle failing schools and leverage the private sector to improve the quality of education. Michigan should implement a data collection and support system similar to the one currently used in Florida. Parents should have a school finder website that allows them to evaluate how schools are performing when deciding where to send their kids. Michigan needs to tie school funding to specific goals and reforms and the private sector should contribute through philanthropic efforts. Michigan needs to adopt a system of merit-based pay that rewards better performing teachers and schools, and should quickly address failing schools.
Rick Snyder is the leader who can reform Michigan's educational system. As a former educator and the father of three students, he understands the importance of improving Michigan's educational system. Rick Snyder knows how to transform the state's educational system to bring about an era of innovation. During this transition, schools, teachers, parents and communities must renew their commitment to ensuring that each child develops the tools necessary to succeed in this globally competitive, fast-changing environment.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/vision-plan/policy-central/reform-michigans-educational-system
