Public Statements
Issue Position: Government Efficiency & Transparency
Issue Position
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

Our state government has to be innovative and efficient in order to deliver the services citizens deserve with the revenue it has avaliable. As Governor, I will implement the billions in structural reforms, bring innovation to government, and a new level of transparency and accountablility in Michigan.-Rick.
Michigan needs a blueprint for government efficiency that will transform state government and promote collaboration and cost saving across all levels of government. Without real reforms to make government more efficient, the vicious cycle of government shutdowns and harmful cuts and tax hikes will continue. Rick Snyder will change how state government operates so that innovation, performance, and customer service are at the forefront and he will prove to voters that government, both state and local, can do more with less.
Michigan needs a blueprint for government efficiency that will transform state government and promote collaboration and cost saving across all levels of government. Without real reforms to make government more efficient, the vicious cycle of government shutdowns and harmful cuts and tax hikes will continue. Rick Snyder will change how state government operates so that innovation, performance, and customer service are at the forefront and he will prove to voters that government, both state and local, can do more with less.
The bureaucratic model of government and cycle of one-time fixes are unsustainable. Over the past decade, the dramatic decline in revenues hasn't been paired with serious efforts to reform how services should be provided. Instead, Lansing used $8 billion in one-time fixes to balance the state budget, exhausting the easy options.
There are billions of cost-saving reforms that haven't been addressed. Politicians have failed to address the billions in saving proposed by the Legislative Commission on Government Efficiency, the Center for Michigan and countless business groups across the state. These cost-saving measures would improve collaboration, increase competition, align total compensation with the private sector and promote best practices across the state.
Michigan needs to post its finances and performance online. Rick Snyder would create opendoor.mi.gov to improve the transparency and accountability of government so that the state's checkbook, department and agency budgets, state employee wages, and information on state and local taxes are as readily available as they are in states like Kentucky.
Rick Snyder is the leader who can make government efficient and transparent. Rick Snyder's leadership in the private sector uniquely prepares him to lead the transformation of state government from bureaucracy into a 21 st century government that efficiently provides great services at a responsible cost and shows taxpayers results.

Source: http://www.rickformichigan.com/vision-plan/policy-central/government-efficiency-transparency
