Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Signs Budget for Flint's Recovery, Expands Healthy Kids Dental to All 83 Counties
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 29, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

To better serve Michigan's 10 million residents and keep the state's momentum moving forward, Gov. Rick Snyder completed signing the state's fiscal year 2017 budget into law Wednesday, providing funds to protect the public and bolster the state's economy. The bill signing marks the sixth straight year the state budget has been completed in June.
Snyder signed House Bill 5294, sponsored by state Rep. Al Pscholka, R-Stevensville, at Holland State Park to highlight strategic investments in natural resources protection, including unveiling a new competition styled after XPRIZE that will draw on innovative methods for preventing invasive species. When combined with the school aid bill signed by Snyder on Monday, the total investment plan for the state, including federal funding, totals $54.9 billion.
"We're six for six on completing the state budget in June," Snyder said. "With significant investments in Flint, Detroit, education, public safety, and our economy, the budget for the next year provides the investments we need to keep Michigan's momentum going strong."
More than 75 percent of the total budget is devoted to education and health and human services.
"The budget signed by the governor today makes key investments that will help keep our growth at a steady pace," State Budget Director John Roberts said. "Our hard work with our partners in the Legislature these past few months has resulted in a fiscally sound budget that will help continue Michigan's comeback."
Another sign of Michigan's momentum is an unemployment rate of 4.7 percent, down from more than 11 percent in 2010, which is the lowest it's been since March 2001. With more than 450,000 new private sector jobs added since December 2010, Michigan has seen the largest unemployment decrease in the nation.
"Things in Michigan have turned around and employers know now that this is a state they can come to, do business in, and thrive and grow," Snyder said.
Specific highlights of the 2017 budget include:
Aiding in Flint's Recovery
Additional funding to aid and assist the city of Flint with its recovery, bringing the total funding for Flint's recovery to $234 million.
Putting People First
An investment of $25 million to expand the Healthy Kids Dental program to fully cover all eligible children in all of Michigan's 83 counties, for total anticipated coverage of more than 956,000 children.
An increase of $3.4 million for the Family Independence Program's clothing allowance for children.
An investment of $7.6 million to expand the Center for Forensic Psychiatry to help ensure persons ruled incompetent to stand trial or not guilty by reason of insanity receive mental health services.
An increase of $3 million in non-Medicaid General Fund support for Community Mental Health.
A total of $1.8 million for additional staff at the Grand Rapids Home for Veterans to better care for Michigan men and women who served their country.
An increase of $2.5 million for senior community services.
General Fund support of $66.5 million for the treatment of Michigan residents with Hepatitis C and $43.7 million for individuals with Cystic Fibrosis.
Focusing on Michigan's Future
Adds $5.3 to the Skilled Trades Training Fund, for a total of $30.9 million, to provide Michigan workers with the skills they need for in-demand jobs.
A total of $115.5 million, a $1.5 million increase over prior year funding, for the Business Attraction and Community Revitalization.
An increase of $1 million for the Pure Michigan campaign to help further stimulate the state's tourism economy.
A total of $3 million for Protect and Grow, which is a joint initiative between the Michigan Department of Military and Veterans Affairs and the Michigan Economic Development Corporation that aims to protect, expand and grow the state's defense industry.
Investing in Infrastructure
The new State Transportation package will result in $1.2B in support for transportation when fully implemented in fiscal year 2021.
A grand total of $233.1 million for various approved Capital Outlay planning authorizations for state universities and community colleges across the state, as well as two state agency projects.
An increase of $4 million for cybersecurity improvements.
A total of $2.5 million in one-time funding to upgrade communication network connections at Army National Guard armories.
Protecting the Public
An additional $7 million to train 65 new state police troopers, bringing trooper strength to its highest level since 2002.
An increase of $1.5 million to expand the Secure Cities initiative to Muskegon Heights, Inkster, Hamtramck, Harper Woods, Highland Park and Benton Harbor.
An increase of $1.7 million to expand the capacity of cyber-crimes enforcement to prevent, detect and investigate cyber-crimes.
A total of $481,300 for new ballistic vests to help ensure the safety of Corrections agents in the field across the state.
Stronger Communities
County revenue sharing and incentive programs will receive $217.3 million, a 1 percent increase above the funding allowed under statutory provisions for the eligible counties. Two additional counties are added this year, bringing the total eligible number of counties receiving funding to 78.
Constitutional revenue sharing payments for cities, villages, and townships totals $757.8 million.
Funding is maintained at $243 million for eligible cities, villages and townships that meet accountability and transparency requirements. An additional $5.8 million in one-time funds is available to eligible cities, villages, and townships.
A total of $5 million is continued for financially distressed cities, villages, and townships. This program provides grants for local units that have one or more conditions that indicate probable financial distress.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-387695--,00.html
