Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Bill Expediting, Expanding Age-Appropriate Treatment Options for Juvenile Offenders
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 21, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Judges will have greater flexibility to find more age-appropriate penalties for young offenders that could enhance and expedite rehabilitation under legislation signed today by Gov. Rick Snyder.
"Reinventing Michigan's criminal justice system is critically important, and this bill helps our judicial leaders assess penalties for juvenile offenders in a way that will hopefully lead to better long-term rehabilitation outcomes for our young people," Snyder said.
Senate Bill 251, sponsored by state Sen. John Proos, expands diversion opportunities for juveniles in the criminal justice system to more quickly direct them to treatment services. It also gives judges the flexibility to find more age-appropriate penalties for young offenders that could enhance and expedite rehabilitation. It is now Public Act 185 of 2016.
Snyder also signed six additional bills:
SB 632, sponsored by state Sen. Tonya Schuitmaker, streamlines the appeals process for courts and the general public. The measure also helps courts operate more efficiently by preventing incorrect appeals filings. It is now PA 186.
SB 672, sponsored by state Sen. Geoff Hansen, allows a parent or guardian of a minor to release a person from liability for personal injuries sustained by the minor during participation in camping activities. It is now PA 187.
SB 774, sponsored by state Sen. Joe Hune, redirects the oversight of vending machines from local public health agencies to the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development. Shifting this oversight aligns with the department's current responsibility to inspect commissaries where food is prepared and packaged for vending, creating cost savings for vending companies and a more consistent set of rules and regulations. It is now PA 188.
SB 957, sponsored by state Sen. Jim Marleau, simplifies the state's formula for making payments to certain Medicaid providers, while also saving general fund dollars. It is now PA 189.
HB 5521 and SB 483, sponsored by state Rep. Klint Kesto and state Sen. Rick Jones, respectively, require that reasonable effort is made to place siblings in the same foster care home, kinship guardianship, or adoptive placement and that efforts be made for frequent visitation if separate placements are made for siblings. The measures are now PAs 190 and 191.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-387137--,00.html
