Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Creates Building the 21st Century Economy Commission to Help Secure Michigan's Future Success
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 16, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Creating a comprehensive vision for Michigan's economic future that will leverage the state's strengths and encourage development is the goal of the Building the 21st Century Economy Commission created today under an executive order signed by Gov. Rick Snyder.
"Michigan has made great strides in economic prosperity and job growth, but we can never become complacent," Snyder said. "We must focus on the future to set Michigan up for success in the 21st Century economy. This commission will help us get there as it works to establish a strategy for growth that will help new and existing industries thrive in our state."
The commission will set goals and establish metrics to measure Michigan's economic success, identify the potential for new industry growth, develop strategies to support existing industry, and make recommendations that will distinguish the state as a center for innovation.
The group will also set priorities for the next 20 years and identify short-term and long-term goals for the state's economic future. The Commission is expected to build off of the work done by the 21st Century Infrastructure Commission and the 21st Century Education Commission that Snyder created earlier this year.
The 23-member Economy commission will include 11 voting members appointed by the governor, four voting members appointed by the state Legislature and eight department or agency directors (or their designee).
Serving as an advisory body, the commission has been directed to complete its work and provide a final report to the governor on its recommendations and findings by June 30, 2017.
The Building the 21st Century Economy Commission is the final advisory body to be established under Snyder's plan to set the foundation for Michigan's future, which includes a focus on improving education and infrastructure in addition to the state's economy.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-386948--,00.html
