Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Reestablishes Statewide Independent Living Council to Help Improve Services to Individuals With Disabilities
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: May 26, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed an executive order reestablishing the Statewide Independent Living Council, which will set the framework for Michigan independent living programs and help providers improve services.
"Michiganders with disabilities deserve the right to live independently and enjoy full inclusion in all aspects of our society," Snyder said. "This council will help providers coordinate services to give those they serve the tools they need to make informed choices, remain self-sufficient and achieve new opportunities."
The council will develop the State Plan for Independent Living in conjunction with centers for independent living, Michigan Rehabilitation Services and the Michigan Bureau of Services for Blind Persons.
The State Plan for Independent Living establishes a blueprint for present and future independent living programs and services in Michigan.
In addition, the council will review and evaluate the implementation of the state plan, and will work with centers for independent living to coordinate services with public and private entities.
The council, which will be established within the Office of the Governor, will be composed of individuals with disabilities and advocates or representatives of organizations supporting those with disabilities.
The 11 voting members of the council will be appointed by the governor and will include:
One director of a center for independent living, chosen by the directors of centers for independent living statewide.
One individual representing parents or guardians of individuals with disabilities.
One individual representing advocates of, and for, individuals with disabilities.
One individual representing organizations that provide services to individuals with disabilities.
Seven state residents, including residents who represent underserved or tribal communities.
The council's five non-voting members will include:
The director of Michigan Rehabilitation Services, or their designee.
The director of the Michigan Bureau of Services for Blind Persons, or their designee.
A representative from the Michigan Department of Civil Rights, who works in the Division on Deaf, DeafBlind and Hard of Hearing.
A representative from the Michigan Department of Education, who works in the Office of Special Education.
A representative from the Department of Health and Human Services.
Three members will be appointed for terms expiring on Dec. 31, 2017, four members will be appointed for terms expiring on Dec. 31, 2018, and remaining members be appointed for terms expiring on Dec. 31, 2019.
The full list of responsibilities of the council can be found in the Executive Order.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-385612--,00.html
