Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Legislation Amending Outdated Language Used in Michigan Laws to be More Inclusive
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: May 26, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Language in Michigan laws that impact the Deaf, DeafBlind and Hard of Hearing community will be updated to be more inclusive under legislation signed today by Gov. Rick Snyder.
"Ensuring that the Deaf, DeafBlind and Hard of Hearing community is appropriately referenced in Michigan laws is critically important in fostering an inclusive and accepting environment for all Michiganders," Snyder said.
HBs 5182-5188, sponsored by state Reps. Martin Howrylak, John Bizon, Jim Runestad, Amanda Price, Winnie Brinks, George Darany and Phil Phelps, respectively, amend various outdated language used in Michigan laws that impact the Deaf, DeafBlind, and Hard of Hearing community. The bills will update outdated terms like "hearing impaired" to reference the community as Deaf, DeafBlind, and Hard of Hearing. The measures are now Public Acts 129-135 of 2016.
Snyder also signed six additional bills:
SB 343, sponsored by state Sen. Tonya Schuitmaker, limits the payroll percentage that state universities must pay to make up for past underfunding in the state-run school pension system. The bill also reduces variations in the amount of each university's payroll that is assessed. It is now PA 136.
SB 344, sponsored by state Sen. David Hildenbrand, makes changes to liquor licenses required by sellers of beer and wine at retail stores. The bill clarifies that a retail store with no other type of liquor license is permitted to apply for a beer and wine "to go" license. It is now PA 137.
SB 501, sponsored by state Sen. Jim Stamas, gives individuals who are visiting the state of Michigan for a short period of time the ability to drive a vehicle on Michigan roads using their foreign-issued driver's license, under certain conditions. It is now PA 138.
SB 659, sponsored by state Sen. Peter MacGregor, gives the State Treasurer the authority to manage the state "Fostering Futures Trust Fund" used to subsidize public or nonprofit programs that benefit children in foster care. It is now PA 139.
SB 607 and 719, sponsored by state Sen. Darwin Booher, amends the Deferred Presentment Service Transactions Act to allow additional payment options for consumers for current and delinquent Deferred Presentment transactions (commonly known as payday lending). The measures are now PAs 140-141.
For more information on this and other legislation, please visit www.legislature.mi.gov.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-385566--,00.html
