Public Statements
Lt. Gov. Brian Calley and Justice Richard Bernstein Hosting Workshop to Help Job Providers Find Hardworking Talent Where They May Least Expect It
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: May 16, 2016
Location: Flint, MI

Lt. Gov. Brian Calley and Michigan Supreme Court Justice Bernstein are continuing their partnership by hosting a statewide business workshop on June 21 in Flint to provide employers with the tools to strengthen Michigan's workforce by hiring people with disabilities.
Calley and Bernstein launched the MI Hidden Talent tour in 2015 to raise awareness of the value of hiring Michiganders with disabilities and are taking the next step in that effort by making sure employers have the understanding and resources to begin doing so.
The MI Hidden Talent workshop is a free training seminar for businesses of all sizes by businesses, targeting owners, senior leadership and human resources officials. Attendees will receive training and resources to begin inclusive hiring practices for businesses.
"Businesses are always looking for hardworking talent to join their teams and individuals with disabilities -- who have a lot to offer -- are often overlooked," Calley said. "It's time we all begin focusing on people's strengths and give people with all abilities a chance to contribute to the workforce."
The event will include national keynote speaker Kathleen Burris from CVS Health and breakout sessions on inclusion, available resources for companies and best practices from businesses using these strategies.
"People across the state have shown great enthusiasm when we discuss the value or hiring people with disabilities," Bernstein said. "We're providing the resources to businesses so they begin to take action and create an inclusive workforce that benefits everyone."
Since launching the MI Hidden Talent partnership, Calley and Bernstein have visited nine cities across the state and have two additional tour stops planned this year. For more information or to register for the workshop, visit www.mihiddentalent.com.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-384946--,00.html
