Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Legislation Strengthening Protections Against Domestic Violence
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Michigan residents dealing with dangerous domestic violence situations will have more clear protections under legislation signed today by Gov. Rick Snyder.
"Ensuring that clear protections are in place for victims of domestic violence situations will better protect Michiganders and their families," Snyder said. "I hope these updates provide peace of mind to individuals trying to escape a dangerous situation and return to a normal life."
House Bill 4476, sponsored by state Rep. Harvey Santana, protects domestic violence victims and other protected parties by limiting mediation in domestic relations cases involving protected persons to situations where a court hearing has occurred or when mediation is requested by the protected person. The bill is now Public Act 93 of 2016.
HB 4478, sponsored by state Rep. Robert Kosowski, clarifies courts' authority to issue personal protection orders restraining animal abuse that is intended to cause mental distress or to exert control over a domestic partner. The bill is now PA 94.
HB 4480, sponsored by state Rep. Kurt Heise, specifies that parents involved in disputes over child custody or parenting time must not be penalized for reasonable actions taken to protect themselves or their children from domestic violence or sexual assault at the hands of the other parent. The bill is now PA 95.
HB 4481, sponsored by state Rep. Lisa Posthumus Lyons, adds restrictions for awarding a parent custody when the child was conceived as a result of sexual assault. The bill is now PA 96.
On Monday Snyder signed Senate Bill 490, sponsored by state Sen. Tonya Schuitmaker, which updates the Preservation of the Personal Privacy Act to cover electronic media in the digital age. The bill is now PA 92.
Snyder also signed 10 other bills on Tuesday:
HBs 4660-4668, sponsored by state Reps. Tom Leonard, Lana Theis, Hank Vaupel, Jim Runestad, Ray Franz, Robert Wittenberg, Derek Miller, Robert Kosowski, and Andrea LaFontaine, eliminate unnecessary reporting requirements currently in place for the Department of Insurance and Financial Services, saving taxpayer dollars. Reports eliminated by the bills are HMO enrollment, medical malpractice and municipal liability claims, competition in the commercial liability and workers compensation insurance markets, and liquor liability insurance. The bills are now PA 97-105.
HB 5257, sponsored by state Rep. Klint Kesto, allows beer, wine, and spirit sellers to advertise brand promotions, tastings, and product information to consumers on social media. The bill is now PA 106.
For more information on this and other legislation, please visit www.legislature.mi.gov.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-383902--,00.html
