Public Statements
Gov. Snyder: Medicaid Services Available to Help More Children and Pregnant Women in Flint, Additional Services Also Available for Flint Residents Already Enrolled
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Children and adults up to age 21 and pregnant women who were served by Flint's water system within the past two years should be eligible for Medicaid health coverage beginning Monday, May 9. Others in those groups already on Medicaid would be able to apply for additional coverage, as well.
"Thanks to the committed work of the Michigan Legislature and our federal partners, enrollment in the Flint Medicaid program would be available for thousands of children and pregnant women," said Gov. Rick Snyder. "With the House approving the plan last week and expected Senate approval on Wednesday, eligible residents will have greater access to benefits and case managers to help with coordinating primary and behavioral health care, providing nutrition support and improving access to education and extended social supports and services."
The additional health coverage through Medicaid is available under a federal waiver approved March 3 by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Gov. Snyder applied for the waiver to help ensure that Flint residents get the medical services they need now and in the future as a result of the city's water emergency.
Coverage would be available to children up to age 21 and pregnant women who were served by the Flint water system since April 2014, and who have income levels up to 400 percent of the federal poverty level.
Although enrollment would begin May 9, coverage is retroactive three months prior to enrollment into Medicaid -- but no earlier than March 1, 2016. Approximately 15,000 additional children and pregnant women would be eligible for Medicaid coverage, and roughly 30,000 current Medicaid beneficiaries in the area would be eligible for additional services under this waiver. Those eligible for this coverage would not have to pay premiums, contributions or co-pays.
Later this year, Michigan will allow those residents with incomes greater than 400 percent of the federal poverty level to purchase Medicaid health coverage.
As part of the coverage, residents also would be eligible for targeted case management services designed to support those exposed to lead through the water system. Targeted case management services would include help for residents to gain access to needed medical, social, educational and other services.
Residents who already are covered by Medicaid will be notified of the additional services in a letter from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services. Other eligible residents not already on Medicaid would be able apply online at www.michigan.gov/mibridges. They also can apply by calling the Michigan Health Care Helpline at 1-855-789-5610 (TTY 866-501-5656 for persons with hearing and speech disabilities).
More information about the Flint water emergency is available at www.michigan.gov/flintwater.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-383873--,00.html
