Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: European Mission Strengthened Relationships, Made Case for Investing in Michigan
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 29, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today said his investment trip has been productive in deepening relationships and making the case that Michigan is the best place for international businesses to expand, invest and create jobs. Snyder was leading a delegation this week that concluded their investment mission to Europe with a stop in The Hague and Nieuwegein, Netherlands.
Joined by Michigan economic development and government leaders, Snyder spent the final day of the weeklong trip meeting with Dutch government officials and educators to further strengthen Dutch-Michigan relationships.
"Michigan and the Netherlands share a fundamental approach to commerce and competing in the global economy, and today we focused on ways to build on our strong relationships and find ways to further our economic cooperation," Snyder said. "One-on-one meetings with decision-makers are vitally important in a competitive global marketplace."
While in The Hague, Snyder and his delegation visited the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Environment, where they discussed water technology, aerospace, advanced materials, and Dutch-U.S. economic relations. Later in the day Snyder visited the Watercycle Research Institute in Nieuwegein, where he learned about Dutch technologies for improving water quality and best practices for sustainable water.
The Watercycle Research Institute is the Netherlands' research facility for the country's drinking water sector. It focuses on healthy, sustainable, innovative and efficient water. The institute works with water supply companies to research optimal water usage and water cycles, assisting in converting scientific answers into practical solutions that can be implemented.
At that same time, Michigan Economic Development Corporation Chief Executive Officer Steve Arwood and Auto Sector Senior Vice President Kevin Kerrigan visited the Dutch Mobility Center at Wageningen University.
The delegation spent Thursday in Italy at the Brembo headquarters in Stezzano, located in the province of Bergamo. Brembo, a global leader in brake technology, invited 14 of its supply chain companies to meet with the Michigan group and discuss attraction and retention opportunities in Michigan.
In July 2014, the company announced it was constructing a new castings facility in Homer, located in Calhoun County -- a project that is expected to generate nearly $100 million in investment. The foundry is currently under construction and, together with the technical departments and warehouse, will cover an area of 300,000 square feet and add 250 new employees to the company's Michigan operations.
"Brembo is a world-class company that recognizes Michigan's world-class pool of talent, automotive leadership and business-friendly environment," Snyder said. "The relationship between Michigan and Brembo was strengthened by our visit and I look forward to pursuing new opportunities with the company that will benefit all of us."
Earlier in the week Snyder toured a Swiss skilled trades facility and met with top executives from Swiss and German companies to discuss expansion opportunities in Michigan. He kicked off his Europe mission participating in opening day of Hannover Messe, the world's largest industrial technology trade fair taking place this week in Hannover, Germany.
In addition to the Governor and MEDC officials, representatives from local economic development agencies -- including the Detroit Regional Chamber and Southwest Michigan First of Kalamazoo -- are participating in the mission.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-383661--,00.html
