Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Travels to Switzerland, Tours Skilled Trades Training center, Meets with Business and Government Leaders to Promote Michigan Investment
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder on Wednesday toured one of Switzerland's leading skilled trades training centers and met with government and business leaders as part of his European investment mission focused on strengthening trade relationships and creating jobs.
"The Michigan reinvention story resonates with companies throughout Europe," Snyder said. "The progress Michigan has made, and the continuing efforts we're undertaking to build a talented workforce, will mean more investment that creates more and better careers."
Snyder began Wednesday with a plant tour of Ronda AG, one of the largest suppliers of precision mechanical and electronic watch movements in the world. The company is an equity shareholder in Bedrock Manufacturing, the parent company of Shinola, and helped with setting up the Shinola watch factory in Detroit.
The governor then visited Libs, the leading training center for Switzerland's machinery, electronics and metal industry. The facility has nearly 100 instructors educating more than 1,100 apprentices in the commercial and technical fields. Libs is responsible for the recruitment, basic education and specialist training of the apprentices and acts as a feeder for nearly 100 member companies. In July 2015, the U.S. and Switzerland signed a Declaration of Intent on Vocational Education and Training.
"We're learning about successful efforts here in Switzerland, and building relationships that will help Michiganders for years to come," Snyder said.
The Governor also hosted a reception in Zurich that was attended by U.S. Ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein Suzan LeVine, her husband Eric, and Swiss Honorary Consul to Michigan Walter Wegmüller. Guests included executives from Swiss companies, representatives from local governments, industry chambers and business network partners.

Source:
