Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Seeks Expanded Investment, New Jobs in Michigan at Opening of Hannover Messe
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 25, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder began his investment mission in Europe today by participating in opening day of Hannover Messe, the world's largest industrial technology trade fair taking place this week in Hannover, Germany. Snyder is leading a week-long investment mission in Europe focusing on strengthening trade relationships and attracting job-creating business investments.
"Michigan is leading the country in research and development across many core technology areas, including connected and automated vehicles and lightweight materials for vehicles," Snyder said. "Hannover Messe gives Michigan an unprecedented opportunity to showcase our top quality technologies, products, talent and infrastructure, as well as our attractiveness as a location for foreign investment."
Snyder today visited companies with Michigan connections, partner organizations and industry pavilions and German companies considering expansion opportunities in Michigan. He also met with key U.S. and German industry executives and political representatives.
This year marks the first time the United States has been designated as the partner country at Hannover Messe. With more than 5,200 exhibitors from around the world, the fair promises significant exposure for the country.
Snyder also attended a reception hosted by the state of Michigan and the German state of Baden-Württemberg, where he gave remarks and met with Dr. Nils Schmid, deputy minister-president of Baden-Württemberg and minister of finance and economics.
"Michigan has many strong, productive and long-standing relationships with German companies, and we thank them for their continuing contributions to our state," Snyder said. "With 70 percent of U.S. automotive research and development happening in Michigan, and our strong manufacturing base and business-friendly environment, there is no better place in North America for European companies to expand than in Michigan."
Baden-Württemberg is Germany's third-largest state and home to many well-known companies, including Daimler, Porsche, BASF, Bosch, Eberspächer, Eissmann, Heller, Mahle, and ZF. More than 50 Baden-Württemberg-based companies have locations in Michigan.
On Tuesday Snyder and his delegation will depart for Zurich, Switzerland, where he will meet with business executives and government officials and visit a leading training facility. He then will travel to Italy, where he will meet with executives from automotive supply chain companies.
He will wrap up his trip on Friday in the Netherlands, where he will meet with Dutch government officials and educators.
Follow the governor's trip on social media at #InvestInMI.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-383237--,00.html
