Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Leads Mission to Europe to Boost Investment in Michigan, Jobs for Residents
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 22, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder is leading an investment mission to Europe, focusing on strengthening trade relationships and attracting job-creating business investments.
Snyder will depart for Germany on Saturday, April 23, where he will meet with German government and company leaders before traveling to Switzerland, Italy and the Netherlands.
"Our efforts to improve Michigan's business climate have now made our state a desirable location for new investment from companies around the world," Snyder said. "When I meet with companies on our trade missions, they are impressed with the strength of the state's economic comeback and the abundant talent the people of Michigan have. These investment missions have opened doors with business leaders in other countries, resulting in good jobs for Michigan residents now and for years to come."
Snyder will attend the opening event of Hannover Messe, the world's largest industrial technology trade fair taking place in Hannover, Germany April 25-29. This year marks the first time ever that the United States is the partner country of the fair.
"Michigan is the auto capital of the world, but we have partners around the globe making key advancements in the auto industry," Snyder said. "Hannover Messe is an opportunity to highlight Michigan's leading position in the U.S. in advanced and high volume manufacturing. It's also an opportunity to promote our Brainpower campaign as one way we are working to ensure Michigan remains the leader for automotive innovation into the future."
Snyder will head to Switzerland on Tuesday, where he will meet with business executives and government officials and visit a leading training facility. He will then travel to Italy, where he will meet with executive from automotive supply chain companies. He will wrap up his trip on Friday in the Netherlands, where he will meet with Dutch government officials and educators.
Michigan Economic Development Corporation Chief Executive Officer Steve Arwood, Auto Sector Senior Vice President Kevin Kerrigan and other MEDC officials also are joining the trip, as well as representatives from local economic development agencies including the Detroit Regional Chamber and Southwest Michigan First of Kalamazoo.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-383102--,00.html
