Public Statements
Final Round of Sentinel Site Results Shows Gradual Improvements, Confirms Next Step Necessary to Help Restore Water System in Flint
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 22, 2016
Location: Flint, MI

The water distribution system in Flint continues to slowly show improvements, but the presence of unpredictable and random lead level spikes throughout the system requires continued use of filters and additional steps to address this in the short and long term, Gov. Rick Snyder said today.
The final round of planned Sentinel Site test results provides a more comprehensive picture of how the water distribution system is processing the orthophosphate coating throughout the system. It also is helping to guide the next course of action, which involves getting more water moving more quickly through the system.
The results from round five of sentinel testing show 93.5 percent of samples were at or below the federal action level of 15 parts per billion (ppb) and 6.5 percent were above 15 ppb. This is the fifth round of tests in a row in which the percent of samples that are at or below the action level of 15 ppb has gone up, which means the system is trending in the right direction. In the fourth round of tests, 92.7 percent were at or below 15 ppb and 7.3 percent were above 15 ppb.
While the overall system continues to improve, Flint is not yet in compliance with the federal Lead and Copper Rule.
"Thanks to the residents who volunteered to participate in the program, we now have a complete set of sentinel data providing a truer picture of how the water system is responding," Snyder said. "While the system has come a long way, we are exercising caution as we look more closely at the unpredictable spikes that continue to show up in tests. We are letting the science drive decisions on Flint water quality and not an arbitrary date. We will declare unfiltered water drinkable again only when the data proves it to be so. We expect that for some residents, that is going to require the replacement of unsafe pipes."

Source:
