Public Statements
Gov. Snyder: New Sentinel and at-large Residential Flint Water Testing Results Show Improvement but Concerns Still Need to Be Addressed
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 13, 2016
Location: Flint, MI

Results from recent Sentinel Site and at-large residential water testing show the city of Flint water distribution system is improving but some instability still exists and the system is not yet meeting standards for lead service lines, Gov. Rick Snyder said today.
On Tuesday, Virginia Tech Professor Marc Edwards released his data findings, noting that the Flint system is not yet in compliance with the federal Lead and Copper Rule -- findings that state and federal data supports.
Results from round four of Sentinel Site testing show that of more than 600 residential sites, 92.7 percent were at or below the federal action level of 15 parts per billion (ppb) and 7.3 percent were above 15 ppb. When the tests are broken out to include only lead service lines, state tests indicate a compliance rate of 89 percent, which is just below the federal action level of 90 percent, making the city noncompliant with federal drinking water rules.
Sentinel Sites provide regular data on the quality of the water distribution system throughout the city. These results help determine if current treatments are appropriately recoating the pipes to prevent the leaching of lead and also highlight where there may be issues of continued concern. The sites were established with the cooperation of residents by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality and reviewed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Results from separate at-large residential testing show that of nearly 19,000 tests submitted by homeowners, 92.2 percent were at or below the federal action level for lead. Free testing kits are made available to residents at local water distribution centers.
"It's encouraging to see that recent testing by the state is consistent with data from federal and other national experts showing improvement within the water distribution system," Snyder said. "However, as the data continues to show system instability, it's imperative that we proceed with an abundance of caution and conduct more testing while residents continue to use filtered water for cooking and drinking. We are letting the science drive decisions on Flint water quality, not an arbitrary date. "
While the system is getting closer to the 90th percentile compliance rate for the Lead and Copper Rule, water tests indicate there are still random spikes in lead concentrations that can be attributed to the presence of small pieces of lead that have broken off from pipes and may be caught in a home's plumbing system. Flushing faucets on a daily basis and cleaning faucet aerators weekly will help reduce the presence of these particles. Scientists have indicated that filters continue to be effective in the removal of lead even at high levels or in the presence of lead particles.
For all residential water testing samples, home follow-up visits have been streamlined so that homes with levels higher than 150 parts per billion are to be contacted by MDEQ and the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services within 48 hours. Homes with levels between 100 and 150 ppb are contacted within seven days for a home visit.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-381868--,00.html
