Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Opens Disaster and Emergency Contingency Fund for City of Flint and Genesee County
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 6, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today opened the state Disaster and Emergency Contingency Fund to provide financial assistance to the city of Flint and Genesee County, as well as other impacted municipalities within the county, due to the Flint water emergency.
The authorization allows affected local governments to apply for assistance grants of up to $100,000.
"While this emergency is still ongoing, both the city of Flint and Genesee County have bills to pay now," Snyder said. "Money from this fund will help cover some of the costs they incurred while responding to the emergency. I will continue to explore other options for providing financial assistance to our local government partners."
State statute provides that under extraordinary circumstances, the governor may authorize reimbursement from the Disaster and Emergency Contingency Fund to provide state assistance to counties and municipalities when federal emergency reimbursement is not available.
The money can be applied toward costs associated with the response to a disaster or emergency, covering overtime for public employees, contracts, shelter supplies, gasoline and repair of public buildings and roads.
The Michigan State Police, Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division will administer the grant program and assist local governments with applying for the funds.
Snyder declared a state of emergency on Jan. 5 for the city of Flint and Genesee County. By declaring an emergency, the governor has made available all state resources in cooperation with local response and recovery efforts in the affected area.
To date, the state of Michigan has dedicated $67 million in assistance to Flint residents and is working with the state Legislature to approve more than $230 million total.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-381385--,00.html
