Public Statements
Gov. Snyder SRL: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-380650--,00.htmligns Bill Creating Statewide Recycling Data Collection System Aimed at Doubling Rate
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 29, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Michigan will be on track to increase its residential recycling rate by establishing a statewide data collection system to calculate the current rate, under legislation signed today by Gov. Rick Snyder.
"Michigan can do much better on our recycling rate, and the first step to improvement is figuring out where we stand today," Snyder said.
Senate Bill 507, authored by state Sen. Mike Green, creates a data reporting system for recycling establishments that will allow the state to determine a baseline recycling rate. The Governor has charged Michigan with doubling the municipal recycling rate, from an estimated 15 percent to 30 percent. Prior to this law, there was no mechanism in place that allowed the state to accurately calculate the recycling rate.
Recycling establishments will be required to submit data to the Department of Environmental Quality on their location and the amounts of recyclable materials received and shipped. The bill exempts retail establishments that collect returnable beverage containers, end-users of recyclable materials, and drop-off locations that send materials to a registered recycling establishment from having to report. There is no fee associated with the data collection and reporting requirements. The bill is now PA 55.
The governor today also signed the following measures:
SB 216, authored by Sen. Dave Robertson, changes references in state law regarding the general educational development (GED) test to be known as simply high school equivalency tests and certificates. The new definition allows the Workforce Development Agency flexibility in determining the best test to meet high school equivalency standards and provide skills for those transitioning to post-secondary education or careers. It is now PA 56.

Source:
