Public Statements
Gov. Snyder: Round 3 of Flint water Sentinel Site results show consistent numbers with round 2
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 29, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Results from round three of Sentinel Site water testing in Flint show a consistent and similar improvement compared to the first round of tests, Gov. Rick Snyder said today.
The state continues to monitor and test water at over 600 residential Sentinel Sites which are providing regular data on the quality of the water distribution system throughout the city. These results help to determine if current treatments are appropriately recoating the pipes to prevent the leaching of lead and also highlight where there may be issues of continued concern.
"The testing shows a gradual but consistent trend with more than 90 percent of sites below the federal action level, but there are still sites that raise concerns," said Gov. Rick Snyder. "We are working to address areas of concern with closer study and additional testing while providing immediate assistance to the residents with higher test results."
Results from round three show 92.1 percent of sites tested were at or below the federal action level of 15 parts per billion (ppb) and 7.9 percent were above 15 ppb. Results from round two showed 91.5 percent were at or below the federal action level of 15 ppb and 8.5 percent were above 15 ppb. Round one had 90.4 percent at or below 15 ppb, and 9.6 percent above the federal action level of 15 ppb.
Sentinel Sites are locations across the city that are tested every two weeks to gather scientifically sound data needed to determine when the water quality will be restored for the people of Flint. The sites were established with the cooperation of residents by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality and reviewed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Data from the Sentinel Sites will continue to be collected for another four weeks.
Sentinel teams visiting homes include a member of the DEQ, a licensed plumber and a community member. The teams show residents how to draw samples of their water in a scientifically accurate manner so they may submit regular samples to the state for testing.
For all residential water testing samples, home follow-up visits have been streamlined so that homes with levels higher than 150 parts per billion are to be contacted by MDEQ and the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services within 48 hours. Homes with levels between 100 and 150 ppb are contacted within seven days for a home visit. NSF-approved filters distributed by the state are certified for lead reduction up to 150 ppb. For those over 15 ppb, residents are encouraged to submit a repeat sample as part of the in-home follow-up.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-380628--,00.html
