Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: FEMA Grants State's Request to Extend Emergency Declaration
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 25, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today announced that FEMA has approved the state of Michigan's request to extend a presidential emergency declaration for the city of Flint and Genesee County until Aug. 14, 2016.
The federal declaration was first approved on Jan. 16. The extension authorizes federal supplies of bottled water, water filters, replacement cartridges and test kits to continue for another four months to ensure the health and safety of Flint residents.
"With this federal assistance, much-needed resources will continue to be available to Flint residents while this crisis exists," Snyder said. "We are working diligently with local, state and federal partners to ensure the people of Flint have access to quality drinking water at their homes as soon as possible."
On March 14, Michigan State Police Capt. Chris A. Kelenske, deputy state director of emergency management and homeland security, requested an extension of the presidential emergency declaration due to the urgency of the Flint water emergency.
In the attached letter received today addressing the emergency declaration, FEMA noted this is the final extension and no further extensions will be granted. Though the letter says the water is estimated to be safe to drink by May 1, the decision on when the water will meet standards that make it suitable for consumption will not be based on a calendar date, but on coordinated and extensive testing from state, federal and outside experts.
Since Jan. 9, the state of Michigan has provided more than 543,500 water cases, more than 110,500 water filters and more than 42,800 water testing kits to Flint residents through Water Response Teams and Water Resource Sites.
Snyder declared a state of emergency on Jan. 5 for the city of Flint and Genesee County. By declaring an emergency, he has made available all state resources in cooperation with local response and recovery efforts in the affected area.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-380424--,00.html
