Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: State's Action Plans Designed to Ensure Flint's Recovery and Strong Future
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 21, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

The state has developed comprehensive action plans focused on improving public health, repairing infrastructure, supporting educational services and creating more and better jobs to make Flint a stronger city after the water crisis, Gov. Rick Snyder said today.
"We are committed to addressing immediate concerns and finding long-term solutions to improve the quality of life for the people of Flint," Snyder said. "Many departments have been involved in addressing the immediate crisis in whatever way they could. At the same time, they have been working on longer-term plans that address Flint's future prosperity. These action plans lay out our next steps as we continue to work together as one Michigan to solve the challenges residents may face."
The Michigan Department of Education, Department of Environmental Quality, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, Department of Talent and Economic Development, the Michigan Economic Development Corporation, the Michigan State Housing Development Authority, and the Talent Investment Agency have coordinated short-, intermediate-, and long-term goals aimed at leveraging services to benefit residents. The plans have been created with input and coordination among local officials, community leaders and residents.
"We need the state to do all it can to help Flint recover and rise from this crisis," said Ridgway White, president of the Flint-based Charles Stewart Mott Foundation. "We're pleased to see these robust plans, and our Foundation will continue to work with the state, the city and others to help meet the needs of Flint's families."
The action plans feature short-term, intermediate-term and long-term goals addressing healthcare, education, infrastructure and economic improvements. Many of the short-term goals are already in progress, and state agencies are looking to complete intermediate-term goals in the next 60 to 120 days. Long-term objectives will continue to be worked on until finalized.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-379415--,00.html
