Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Creates Commission to Help Guide State's Infrastructure Through 21st Century
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 10, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

The 21st Century Infrastructure Commission will identify long-term strategies to help ensure Michigan's infrastructure remains safe and efficient now and into the future, under an executive order signed today by Gov. Rick Snyder.
Executive Order 2016-5, creates the commission, which was announced in Snyder's State of the State address in January. The commission, comprised of state and independent industry experts, will be responsible for identifying strategic best practices to modernize the state's transportation, water and sewer, energy and communications infrastructure.
"The commission represents a collaborative effort to help create a sustainable and comprehensive infrastructure vision for the future of our state while identifying priority projects to best support the health and safety of Michiganders," Snyder said. "As we look forward, Michigan is poised to be a leader in both the automotive and cyber security industries, so it is essential we modernize and maintain our infrastructure to match those goals."
If Snyder's 2017 FY budget proposal is approved by the Legislature, the Commission's recommendations will help determine the use of $165 million to be set aside in a newly created Michigan Infrastructure Fund, representing the first steps toward a longer term solution for the state's needs.
Serving as an advisory body within the Executive Office, the Commission must present an infrastructure assessment and its recommendations no later than November 30, 2016.
The 27-member Commission will include individuals representing the business, government, nonprofit, and philanthropic communities who have a particular interest or expertise in infrastructure. Specifically, Commission members will need to possess expertise in infrastructure design and planning, underground infrastructure, municipal planning, public utilities, water and sewer infrastructure, wastewater treatment and drainage, and/or communications and technology.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-378598--,00.html
