Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: Testing Progress Made in Flint With Second Round of Sentinel Site Data Collected and Analyzed
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 1, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

The state is continuing to collect results on scientific water testing in Flint with data now being collected and analyzed from approximately 600 sentinel sites, Gov. Rick Snyder said today.
Results from 423 sites that were recently added show more than 91 percent of the samples are at or below the federal action level of 15 parts per billion. There are still concerns at just below 9 percent of the sites.
Sentinel sites are locations across the city that will be continually tested to gather scientifically sound data needed to determine the safety of the water. The sites are established by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in cooperation with residents.
"There is still a lot of work to do and we will not be satisfied that the water is ready until we see the results of many tests that can ensure the water truly is safe to drink," Snyder said. "That's why we are so appreciative of the residents who are willing to work with us to have their water regularly tested as part of this official scientific survey. By working together, we can help get people the water they need straight from their tap and help the city and its residents move forward."
Starting with the next round, testing for Groups A and B will be streamlined and combined to make it easier on residents and allow the results to be processed and reported together more easily. Testing will continue in two-week intervals for both test groups with sample results posted the week following the sample. Sentinel site residences receive individual test results within a week by mail.
Data from the sentinel sites is being collected over the next six weeks in two groupings that will total approximately 600 sites across the city. Initial testing in sentinel group A took place from Feb. 10-14 in 180 Flint residences. The first round of testing for sentinel group B started last week.







Source:
