Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Bill Allowing Locals to Maintain Cost-Saving Electronic Tax Assessment Records
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 1, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Local governments will have the option to maintain property tax assessments electronically, making these records more accessible and saving costs, under legislation signed today by Gov. Rick Snyder
"Electronic data is more easily searched and stored, and is a move toward continuing to modernize government operations while reducing the strain on taxpayer funding," Snyder said. "This transition also will help improve local government efficiency and transparency for Michigan residents."
House Bill 4888, sponsored by state Rep. Holly Hughes, allows local tax assessors to maintain electronic assessment rolls. The bill also establishes appropriate security practices, requires the creation of an electronic backup file and requires local units using electronic files to provide a computer for public use and viewing of the files.
The bill is now Public Act 25 of 2016.
Snyder signed an additional three bills:
Senate Bill 503, sponsored by state Sen. Judy Emmons, updates provisions related to parental rights of American Indian children in Michigan. The bill ensures Michigan is in compliance with federal law. It is now PA 26.
HB 4758, sponsored by state Rep. Al Pscholka, allows local communities to have access to additional funding options for financing infrastructure improvement projects. This will decrease borrowing costs for drain projects. It is now PA 27.
HB 4727, sponsored by state Rep. Triston Cole, requires new meteorological evaluation towers to be properly identified, bringing Michigan's record keeping practices in line with federal standards. Under the bill, tower owners will provide detailed height, location and installation date information to the Michigan Aeronautics Commission. It is now PA 28.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-377953--,00.html
