Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Thanks Flint Residents for Progress on Establishing 'Sentinel Sites' to Check Water
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Feb. 10, 2016
Location: Flint, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder is thanking 402 households from across Flint who will provide water test data to help determine when the city's water is safe to drink.
The "sentinel sites" will be visited by teams made up of Michigan Departments of Environmental Quality employees and licensed plumbers. They'll teach homeowners how to test their water in a scientifically accurate manner and submit samples on a regular basis for the state to test.
"I want to thank the homeowners participating in this sentinel site program," said Gov. Rick Snyder. "Their diligence in taking scientific samples from their home's water system is crucial in helping us decide the right time to declare when Flint neighborhoods have safe drinking water."
Also launching today is a more streamlined system of addressing homes that test high for lead or copper in their water. This new process will provide residents with more efficient in-home follow-up for environmental and health wrap-around services coordinated by the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services.
"We want to provide the quickest response possible when we see that a home's water tests high for lead or copper," Snyder said. "We've provided outreach in Flint since October and continue to improve our processes for getting residents the help they need. Streamlined coordination of services between the DHHS, DEQ, Genesee County Health Department and the Flint Local 370 Plumbers Union is yet another step in that direction."
Homes with higher lead levels will receive health and wellness information, blood test referrals, transportation to appointments if necessary and additional bottled water, filters and water sample kits. The homes will also be inspected for possible sources of lead in the water.
Additional information about the Flint water emergency is available at www.michigan.gov/flintwater, by calling United Way 211 or visiting www.helpforflint.com.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-376607--,00.html
