Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Announces Regional Infrastructure Pilot Program
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 3, 2017
Location: Lansing, MI

In an ongoing effort to improve Michigan's infrastructure now and well into the future, Gov. Rick Snyder today signed an executive directive creating a pilot program to provide recommendations for implementing a comprehensive, statewide asset management system. The pilot was one of the essential cross-cutting recommendations outlined in the report put forward by the Governor's 21st Century Infrastructure Commission.
"Modern infrastructure is critical in ensuring Michigan is on a solid path toward our future," Snyder said. "This collaborative regional pilot is key to improving our statewide infrastructure and will help make Michigan a national leader in infrastructure asset management and planning."
Today the governor visited Continental Dairy in Coopersville and the Michigan Department of Transportation's operations center in Detroit to announce that the West and Southeast regions have been selected to participate in the pilot. This joint regional pilot will cover 55 percent of Michigan's urban, suburban and rural population. The pilot will help formulate recommendations on how the state can establish a statewide integrated asset management system that will safeguard Michigan residents and reduce costs for communities and users. Its objectives include:
Identify a statewide, regional reporting process and structure to plan, analyze, and coordinate infrastructure across assets and jurisdictions at the regional level that would create the framework for a statewide asset management system.
Identifying focus areas of transportation, water, sewer, and stormwater assets. Broadband and energy utilities also will be included in discussions and the pilot process.
Identify, define, and inventory existing and needed infrastructure asset data and data elements (condition, material, age, remaining service life, ownership, planned investment, etc.).
Establish common data standards necessary for asset management, including the useful life of various assets, method of condition assessment for each asset class, desired level of service and other key data elements.
Identify criteria for a database system that enable consistent tracking and assessment, including the collection, management, integration, interoperability, and analysis of relevant data.
Ensure security and delivery of data to protect public health and safety.
The directive requires that within one year of the establishment of the pilot, a set of recommendations and lessons learned must be provided to the Governor for use as a framework in the development of a statewide asset management system.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-408343--,00.html
