Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: State to Request Additional Medical Services for Flint Residents Under Age 21
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 26, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

All Flint residents under age 21 would receive additional healthcare services to address potential problems brought on from exposure to lead, under a request to be sent to the federal government by Gov. Rick Snyder.
"We're focused on protecting the health and welfare of Flint residents, especially children and young adults who might have been exposed to lead." Snyder said. "We want to make sure comprehensive medical care services are available, and we hope the federal government will partner in our efforts."
The request will include:
Expanded Medicaid eligibility for all residents in the impacted areas up to age 21, regardless of income level. The request would also include the expansion of Medicaid coverage for people already enrolled in other forms of insurance to ensure comprehensive benefits are available to children who may have come into contact with lead in the water.
Additional, community-based resources to ensure all children, regardless of health insurance coverage, have access to comprehensive medical treatment. This will include physical and behavioral health treatment in addition to long-term health care services.
Federal Medicaid match for lead abatement activities in impacted areas. Because of the number of children enrolled in Medicaid in the impacted area, lead-abatement programs would help minimize and/or prevent any long term adverse health problems associated with lead exposure.
These are efforts that will supplement state-supported health and well-being programs that are already in place to help people in Flint and across the state.
The formal request will be submitted soon by the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
For updates on Flint water, please visit www.mi.gov/flintwater.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-374773--,00.html
