Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Seeks Presidential Emergency and Major Disaster Declaration to Help Flint Residents
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 14, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today requested President Obama to declare both an emergency and an expedited major disaster for Genesee County as a result of ongoing emergency water response efforts in the city of Flint.
Snyder requested supplementary federal aid in the form of Individual Assistance and Public Assistance to help eligible residents and state and local government entities to protect the health, safety and welfare of Flint residents.
If federal aid is granted, assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs to help people and businesses recover. Public assistance helps cover some of the costs incurred by state and local governments due to damage to public facilities and infrastructures, such as city schools and the water system.
"We are utilizing all state resources to ensure Flint residents have access to clean and safe drinking water and today I am asking President Obama to provide additional resources as our recovery efforts continue," Snyder said.
Snyder's request will be reviewed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which will advise President Obama whether an emergency and major disaster declaration should be granted. Ultimately, the president will determine whether to provide federal assistance.
Snyder declared a state of emergency on Jan. 5 for Genesee County, following the county's local emergency declaration on Jan. 4. The declaration makes available all state resources in cooperation with local response and recovery efforts in Genesee County as outlined in the Michigan Emergency Management Plan.
In addition, Snyder requested support from FEMA on Tuesday to help coordinate an interagency recovery plan with other federal agencies to provide resources to Flint. Snyder also activated the Michigan National Guard to assist with distributing supplies at five water resource sites established in Flint.
For more information on emergency efforts in Flint, visit www.michigan.gov/flintwater.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-373648--,00.html
