Public Statements
Governor Snyder Requests Support from the Federal Emergency Management Agency
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 12, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today requested support from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to coordinate an interagency recovery plan with other federal agencies to provide resources to Flint.
This request will identify federal agencies that have programs, authorities and/or technical expertise that could be utilized in the ongoing response and recovery efforts in Flint to be made available. Such federal agencies may include the Department of Health and Human Services, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Housing and Urban Development, and Army Corps of Engineers.
In addition, Snyder today issued an Executive Order activating the Michigan National Guard to assist with distributing supplies at the five water resource sites established in Flint.
"As we work to ensure that all Flint residents have access to clean and safe drinking water, we are providing them with the direct assistance they need in order to stretch our resources further," Snyder said. "The Michigan National Guard is trained and ready to assist the citizens of Flint."
Members of the National Guard are expected to start arriving in Flint as early as Wednesday to assist with response efforts and plan to increase to over 30 personnel by Friday. The support of the National Guard will enable American Red Cross volunteers, who have been staffing the water resource sites since Jan. 9, to join the efforts of the water resource teams going door to door in Flint neighborhoods to distribute bottled water, water filters, replacement cartridges and testing kits.
This is the second time Snyder has activated the National Guard. The first was for the massive Duck Lake Fire in the Upper Peninsula in May 2012.
Under Executive Order 2016-02, the active state service units and individuals in the Michigan National Guard are authorized to assist in maximizing all state efforts to assist the City of Flint and Genesee County in accordance with the Michigan Emergency Management Plan.
Flint residents can continue to pick up free bottled water, water filters, replacement cartridges and home water testing kits at the water resource sites.
On Jan. 5, Governor Snyder declared a state of emergency in the City of Flint at the request of Flint and Genesee County officials.
In accordance with the Michigan Emergency Management Plan, the director of the Michigan State Police, or her designee, is responsible for coordinating all state efforts, including the Michigan National Guard to assist the City of Flint and Genesee County.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-373328--,00.html
