Public Statements
Gov. Snyder, Delegation Meet with Leading Auto Executives in Paris on First Day of Investment Mission
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 19, 2017
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder and his delegation completed their first day of meetings in Paris, which launched the team's weeklong European investment mission to France, Germany and Italy.
"It's clear that Michigan's reinvention story has resonated with companies throughout Europe," Snyder said. "Our improved business climate is attracting foreign employers that want to expand their existing operations or relocate to be in the global capital of the automotive industry. We are in a great position to be at the center of the convergence between the automotive and aerospace sectors. I'm using this time in Europe to lay the groundwork for entirely new investments to materialize over the next several years."
Snyder began the day by meeting with executives from Faurecia to discuss the future of mobility in Michigan and related growth opportunities. Faurecia operates in three key business sectors: automotive seating, interior systems and clean mobility. Faurecia is the world's number one supplier of seat frames and mechanisms, emissions control technologies and vehicle interiors.
The company has a total of nine sites in Michigan, with the company's North American headquarters in Auburn Hills. Overall, the company's statewide employment exceeds 3,000 people.
The delegation met with Plastic Omnium, a world leader in automotive exterior components and modules as well as fuel systems and emission control systems. The company's North American headquarters is located in Troy.
AUTO INERGY, a division of Plastic Omnium, is a global supplier of fuel systems and selective catalytic reduction diesel emissions systems. AUTO EXTERIOR, also a division of Plastic Omnium is a global supplier of exterior components and modules to the global market.
The two divisions share a North American headquarters and Tech Center in Troy. In total, the company employs 1,100 Michigan residents.
The governor's next meeting was with Jacques Aschenbroich, chairman and CEO of Valeo SA. Valeo SA is a Paris-based Tier 1 automotive supplier and partner to all automakers worldwide. As a technology company, Valeo proposes to develop innovative products and systems that contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions and to the development of intuitive driving.
The company's North American headquarters are located in Troy, with additional facilities in Auburn Hills and Highland Park. The company employs 759 Michiganders. Valeo North America plans to break ground in mid-July for its new low-speed test track and support building in Auburn Hills.
In addition, Valeo is making improvements to its North American headquarters and R&D Center in Troy. Announced in February, the projects are expected to generate total private investment of nearly $5 million and create 290 jobs.
"Valeo's goal is to re-imagine mobility, making it cleaner, safer and more intuitive," Aschenbroich said. "There is no better place from which to help drive this industry revolution than from the birthplace of the North American automotive industry. We are pleased to be working with the State of Michigan and expanding our operations there; and together being leaders in new mobility."
Snyder's last meeting was with executives from Chassis Brakes International, where they discussed Michigan's leadership position in automotive manufacturing and the company's future expansion plans. Chassis Brakes International is one of the world's largest manufacturers of automotive braking solutions. Its products, including disk brakes, drum brakes, electro-mechanical parking brakes, and rotors, are dedicated to passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.
Chassis Brakes International has a global footprint with operations in Europe, Asia, South Africa, North and South America. The company employs 5,200 people in 16 countries at 13 manufacturing sites and 11 engineering centers or sales offices.
The next two days of Snyder's mission will be spent at the International Paris Air Show where he will promote Michigan's strength and leadership in the aerospace supply chain sector to leading aerospace companies. He will also meet with executives from the Michigan companies that are exhibiting at the trade show.
Snyder will head to Germany on Thursday to connect with senior government leaders, then travel to Italy and spend Friday meeting with business executives before returning to Michigan on Saturday.
This trip marks the Snyder Administration's fifth mission to Europe. Other missions led by Snyder or Lt. Gov. Brian Calley have included China, Japan, South Korea, Canada, the Netherlands, Brazil, Mexico, Israel, Chile, Columbia, India, Switzerland, Ireland and Great Britain. The missions have resulted in hundreds of millions of dollars of investments in Michigan by foreign companies adding jobs to Michigan's workforce.
Follow the governor's trip on social media at #InvestInMI. Additional photos are also available here.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-424287--,00.html
