Public Statements
Gov. Snyder: Settlement Represents Best Path Forward for Flint's Full Recovery
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 28, 2017
Location: Detroit, MI

Judge David Lawson of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan today approved a settlement reached between several parties in a lawsuit filed in January 2016 against the state of Michigan and city of Flint.
"This settlement continues the state's commitment to providing the resources necessary for the residents of Flint to recover from the crisis, including health care services, nutritional food and replacement of lead service lines throughout the city," Gov. Snyder said of the outcome. "There was a great deal of hard work that went into this comprehensive solution, and I want to thank everyone who came together to agree on solutions that will assist residents for years to come.
"While the settlement provides for commitments to many different resources, the state will continue striving to work on many priorities to ensure the city of Flint has a positive future, including economic development, job placement and riverfront revitalization.
"As long as we continue working together to find solutions, Flint's recovery will continue on a solid path."
The settlement agreed to and signed by the Governor includes the following responsibilities for the State of Michigan:
Allocation of $87 million to fund continued service-line replacements for residences in the city of Flint.
Continuation of the Community Outreach and Resident Education program (CORE), with workers going door-to-door every day to inspect faucet filters and inform residents about available services, including faucet fixture replacement.
Provision of free faucet filters for residents while the city's pipe replacement program is ongoing.
Continued delivery of bottled water within 24 hours to Flint residents by request.
Operation of at least two community water resource sites until Sept. 1, 2017.
Payment of plaintiffs' attorney fees in the amount of $895,000.
Aspects of the settlement discussed during mediation are confidential and cannot be shared publicly by any party, per Judge Lawson's orders.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-407760--,00.html
