Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Makes Case for Investing in Michigan, Strengthens Ties with Japan
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 14, 2015
Location: Tokyo, Japan

Michigan is helping companies create more and better jobs and is eager to build upon the state's longstanding relationships with Japanese businesses, Gov. Rick Snyder said today after addressing the 2015 Midwest U.S.-Japan Association Conference.
"We have come to open new doors for trade and business between Michigan and Japan," Snyder said. "Michiganders build great products that we can export, and our state is a prime place for companies to locate and grow. We see many great opportunities ahead for all of us to do more business together."
Snyder also highlighted the significance of Michigan's presence in the global economy and made the case for foreign business owners to consider investing in the state. Snyder said Michigan is poised to become a top 10 state for economic growth, job creation, and quality of life.
"In the past five years, hundreds of companies, both domestic and international, have invested in our state's success," he said. "We have reinvented Michigan through common sense reforms and we're moving forward with a new economic climate that is attractive to businesses making growth and investment decisions. We're also helping connect businesses with schools and colleges so students graduate with in-demand skills, building a talented workforce."
On Saturday, Snyder met with Gov. Taizo Mikazuki of Shiga Prefecture, Japan to affirm a sister state agreement, one of the oldest sister state agreements between the United States and Japan.
"For nearly 50 years, residents of our two states have fostered personal, educational and economic ties through partnership activities and exchanges involving students, teachers, community members and government officials," Snyder said. "It signifies a mutual commitment to our partnership and further promotes the economic and cultural development of the state of Michigan and Shiga."

Source:
