Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Opens State Disaster Fund for Communities in Grand Traverse and Leelanau Counties
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 4, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today opened the Disaster and Emergency Contingency Fund to provide financial assistance to Grand Traverse and Leelanau counties after the Aug. 2 severe storms.
Grand Traverse and Leelanau counties, as well as communities in those counties, are eligible to apply for assistance grants for up to $100,000.
"While tremendous progress has been made clearing dangerous tree debris throughout Leelanau and Grand Traverse counties, these communities are still recovering and trying to achieve a sense of normalcy," Snyder said. "These funds will help qualifying local governments cover some of the costs they incurred while responding to the disaster."
State statute provides that under extraordinary circumstances, the governor may authorize reimbursement from the Disaster and Emergency Contingency Fund to provide state assistance to counties and municipalities when federal assistance is not available. The money can be applied toward costs associated with the response to a disaster or emergency, covering overtime for public employees, contracts, shelter supplies, gasoline and repair of public buildings and roads.
The Michigan State Police, Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division will administer the grant program and assist local governments with applying for the funds.
Snyder declared a "state of disaster" on Aug. 10 for Grand Traverse County after severe thunderstorms caused widespread and severe damage. Upon direction of the governor, the Michigan State Police, Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division amended the declaration to include Leelanau County on Aug. 14.
By declaring a "state of disaster," the state of Michigan has made available all state resources in cooperation with local response and recovery efforts in the disaster area.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-364081--,00.html
