Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Leads Fifth Mission to China to Promote Business Investment, Tourism in Michigan
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 21, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder will lead an eight-day investment mission to China, focusing on promoting continued job-creating business growth and investment for Michigan, and the state as a tourism destination.
Snyder is meeting with government officials, industry executives and key media in in China, departing Michigan on Friday, Aug. 21, and returning Saturday, Aug. 29.
"We have built strong relationships in China since our first mission in 2011 and we will continue to make the case that there is no better place in North America for Chinese companies to expand than in Michigan," Snyder said. "Chinese travelers are now going all over the world and the United States, and this is a great opportunity to tell people about Pure Michigan tourism. We will also be working to open more doors to new markets in China for businesses from across our state."
Snyder will visit Beijing, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Hangzhou and Shanghai, where he will promote Michigan business opportunities, make a series of company visits and connect with senior government leaders. As part of the trip, he will also meet with several automotive organizations including Chinese Association of Automotive Manufacturers (CAAM) and China Council for the Promotion of International Trade Auto Committee (CCPIT-Auto).
Snyder also plans hold business media roundtables in Beijing and Guanzhou, and meet with tourism media at the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall and the Canton Tower in Guanzhou.
The investment mission will be led by the Michigan Economic Development Corporation. Concurrent with the governor's investment mission, MEDC is leading seven Michigan companies to China to meet with prospective business partners, distributors and buyers to increase export opportunities from Michigan to China.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-362956--,00.html
