Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Declares Dtate of Disaster for Grand Traverse County Following Severe Storms
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 10, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today declared a state of disaster for Grand Traverse County and made state resources available to help with recovery efforts after severe thunderstorms and high winds caused widespread damage on Aug. 2.
"Our state and local emergency response and volunteer services have been working to protect the health and safety of Michiganders and mitigate damage," Snyder said. "I commend these responders for their efforts in protecting our citizens during and after the storms. This disaster declaration will provide all available state assistance so our affected communities can continue their recovery."
By declaring a state of disaster, Snyder has made available state resources in cooperation with local recovery efforts in the affected area. The declaration authorizes the Michigan State Police, Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division to coordinate state efforts.
Communities in Grand Traverse County have been affected by the severe thunderstorms, damaging homes, public facilities and infrastructure and creating an extraordinarily large amount of fallen tree debris. Efforts have been underway by the local communities to stabilize structures and remove debris to ensure public health and safety.
"My staff has been actively working with our local emergency management partners in all counties affected by last week's severe storms," said Capt. Chris A. Kelenske, deputy state director of emergency management and homeland security and commander of the MSP/EMHSD. "I have directed my staff to work closely with Grand Traverse County so they can partner in these relief efforts."
Since Aug. 3, Grand Traverse County has been under a local state of emergency, which activates local emergency response and recovery plans. By requesting a governor's declaration, the county has determined local resources are insufficient to address the situation and state assistance is required to protect the health, safety and property to lessen or avert the threat of a crisis.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-361715--,00.html
