Public Statements
First Lady Sue Snyder Encourages Universities, Colleges to Apply for Funding Under New Sexual Assault Prevention Grant
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 5, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

The Campus Sexual Assault Grant Program, announced today by First Lady Sue Snyder and Michigan State Police Director Col. Kriste Kibbey Etue, will help colleges and universities fund new and innovative sexual assault prevention initiatives.
In an effort to help reduce sexual assaults on campuses across the state, Governor Snyder recommended and the Michigan Legislature appropriated $500,000 from the FY 2016 General Fund to support the grant program. Following the "Inform. Empower. Prevent. Let's End Campus Sexual Assault" summit, which took place in June, the grant is the next step in prevention efforts.
"The start of this initiative was met with such positive energy, I'm excited to build on that momentum and continue working together across all sectors to make Michigan a true leader in the fight against sexual assault," Snyder said. "I encourage all colleges and universities to keep the conversation moving forward, apply for the grant, and brainstorm new and different strategies to help keep our students safe."
All public and non-public universities and colleges in Michigan where students attend classes on campus are eligible to apply. The grant opens today, Aug. 5 and closes at noon on Thursday, Oct. 1. Applications received after the deadline cannot be considered.
"The Michigan State Police is pleased to open the grant application period for the state's first-ever Campus Sexual Assault Program Grant," stated Etue. "It is our hope that this funding will be the catalyst for the development of new ideas and programs that will improve the safety and security of students at campuses across the state."
The Campus Sexual Assault Grant Program (CSAGP) is a competitive grant program based on eligibility, project description, budget narrative, goals, objectives and performance measures. All applications will be reviewed by a selection committee consisting of representatives from the governor's Executive Office, MSP, the Michigan Domestic and Sexual Violence Prevention and Treatment Board and other representatives from victim services providers.

Source:
