Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: 'We Run on Brainpower' Showcases Opportunities, Advancements in Michigan's Automotive Industry
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 5, 2015
Location: Travserse City, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today announced a new initiative -- "We Run on Brainpower' -- at the Center for Automotive Research Management Briefing Seminars -- designed to showcase the many cutting edge high technology jobs in today's automotive industry and the opportunities they offer to Michigan students and residents.
"Our success in attracting new automotive investment in recent years means we must now expand our state's talent base and prepare our students for jobs in one of the world's major technology hubs," Snyder said. "Michigan today rivals Silicon Valley as a global innovation center and we need to encourage our students to pursue exciting, well-paying careers in the tech-driven auto industry."
We Run on Brainpower, directed by the Michigan Economic Development Corporation, is an integrated communications program intended to raise awareness about the many exciting high-tech careers available and to highlight Michigan's continued leadership in the automotive industry as a major developer of new technologies and innovations.
Researchers project there will be more innovations in vehicle technology and materials during the next five to 10 years than what has occurred in the last 100 years. Driving those changes will be the brainpower and talent in Michigan.
"The vehicles of tomorrow are being developed in Michigan today because our state is home to the nation's highest concentration of engineers, designers, innovators and IT specialists," Snyder said. "As Michigan continues to develop these technologies, we must attract and retain the talent needed in these fields. We Run on Brainpower is one way we are working to ensure Michigan's standing as the leading innovator in the automotive industry for years to come."
To attract and retain the best and brightest in the industry, perceptions about the automotive industry must change, according to a 2014 study. Conducted by MICHAuto, the study found that only 41 percent of influencers are very likely to recommend a job in the automotive industry. Influencers includes parents with kids ages 12-17, adults in leadership roles of youth organizations, high school and college level educators, career counselors and academic advisors.
"Michigan continues to be the epicenter of the automotive industry as the home of top-tier suppliers, automakers and startups," said Kevin Kerrigan, senior vice president of the MEDC's Automotive Office. "Just last month we saw Mcity, the first autonomous vehicle test facility of its kind, open in Ann Arbor and that's only the beginning of what is being developed in our state. We need the talent that's out there to realize that Michigan is a place where you can seriously grow your career and that it's a pretty great place to live, too."
Snyder late last year created a new department to address the growing need for tech and high skill personnel in Michigan. Announced in December 2014, the Department of Talent and Economic Development began formal operations in March 2015. Its director, Steve Arwood, also leads the MEDC as its chief executive. Along with the newly-created Talent Investment Agency, directed by Stephanie Comai, TED aligns the state's workforce and economic development capabilities to offer coordinated programs for the state's businesses and individuals.
We Run on Brainpower dives deep into the advanced skillset of Michigan's automotive talent with stories of the men and women who are developing the vehicles of tomorrow. The MEDC, along with industry partners such as Ford, Visteon and Toyota, collaborated in the development of the "A Day in the Life" video series that highlights some of the engineers leading the charge.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-361360--,00.html
