Public Statements
Detroit Free Press - Michigan Politicians React to Gay Marriage Ruling
News Article
By: Rick Snyder Sandy Levin Brenda Lawrence Gary Peters John Conyers, Jr. Debbie Dingell Dan Kildee
Date: June 26, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

For the second day in a row, a Supreme Court decision caused social media to blow up and news releases to clog e-mail in boxes as the high court ruled that same-sex marriage is legal in all 50 states.
Here's some of the reaction:
"Same-sex marriage has been a divisive issue in Michigan and across our country. Recognizing that there are strong feelings on both sides, it is important for everyone to respect the judicial process and the decision today from the U.S. Supreme Court. Our state government will follow the law and our state agencies will make the necessary changes to ensure that we will fully comply."
-- Gov. Rick Snyder
"We will honor, respect and uphold the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. We are appreciative that a decision finally has been reached in this very significant issue."
Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, whose office argued the case against same-sex marriage before the Supreme Court.
"Thousands of same-sex couples in MI will finally be afforded opportunity to marry who they love including our own April DeBoer & Jayne Rowse."
-- U.S. Sen. Gary Peters
"It is unfortunate that another activist court has overturned the will of the people of Michigan. The Republican Platform and the people of Michigan support the long-standing definition of marriage as one man and one woman. Unfortunately, in this instance, the Court has overstepped its bounds."
-- Michigan Republican Party chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel
"Someone should ask Snyder & Schuette how much taxpayer $ they wasted defending #Michigan's discriminatory same-sex marriage ban. #lovewins."
and "Two Atty. General Schuette losses at #SCOTUS in two days. He's proven to be only an extreme voice on the wrong side of history. #Lovewins!"
-- U.S. Rep. Dan Kildee, D-Flint
"Now that same sex marriage is legal can we also end the indefensible LGBT discrimination in housing and employment in MI."
-- State Rep. Brandon Dillon, D-Grand Rapids
"As the world deals with so much anger and hatred, it's nice to know that sometimes love prevails. #LoveisLove."
-- Former Senate Minority Leader Gretchen Whitmer, D-East Lansing
"Love is love. It's not ours to judge. Today the Supreme Court affirmed that individuals can love whomever they choose. I'm simply happy for my friends, April and Jayne, who have five wonderful children they want to be able to adopt and love. I can't wait to attend their wedding."
-- Congresswoman Debbie Dingell
"Going forward, the Supreme Court's decision to redefine marriage will have a significant ripple effect upon the first amendment right to religious liberty. It sets the Church's teaching about marriage in opposition to the law and will create inestimable conflicts between the state and religious persons and institutions. As the impact of the decision plays out over the coming weeks and months the Catholic Church will continue to preach the truth about marriage and will promote, in the public square, this truth as what is good for society and our world."-- Michigan Catholic Bishops
"In this landmark ruling, the Supreme Court has yet again confirmed that the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees the right to equal protections of the laws. I applaud this decision recognizing marriage equality as a constitutional right. It affirms the essential role of the Constitution in protecting the right to make our most intimate decisions and upholds our human dignity."-- U.S. Rep. John Conyers, D-Detroit
"I know so many couples who are married but whose marriages, until today, were not recognized. I celebrate with them, and with all the couples and families who have been recognized and respected by the Supreme Court's ruling."-- U.S. Rep. Brenda Lawrence, D-Southfield
"This is a great day for everyone who believes in equal rights. Far too many people have waited far too long for this day. We stand with them in celebration today, but also in the ongoing effort to ensure complete equality and fairness in all aspects of life." -- State Sen. Jim Ananich, D-Flint.
"As a Party, we believe in the importance of traditional marriage between a man and a woman and remain committed to finding common ground to champion the family's role in society. Marriage is critically important to strengthening our country and our communities. Likewise, we will remain champions of religious liberty. Today's ruling cannot and must not be used to coerce a church or religious institution into performing marriages that their faith does not recognize. We should respect the sincerely held religious views of our fellow citizens, just as we respect those on the winning side of this case."-- Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus

"But from the beginning of creation, God made them male & female. What God has joined together, let not man separate." -Jesus #SupremeCourt-- ---- State Rep. Lee Chatfield, R-Levering
"This is a historic day, reflecting what each of us knows in our hearts and within our communities, we are all equal and should be able to marry who we love."-- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin, D-Royal Oak
"With this historic decision, the Supreme Court has established that the joys, responsibilities and rights of marriage are open to everyone. I celebrate this decision along with all who worked so hard for so many years to make marriage equality a reality." --House Minority Leader Tim Greimel, D-Auburn Hills
"I am elated and relieved by the Supreme Court's ruling today regarding same-sex marriage. No longer will my office, or any office in this country, be forced to discriminate against loving, committed same sex couples who want to get married."-- Oakland County Clerk Lisa Brown
"I have always believed that marriage is the union of one man and one woman before God. While I respect the decision made today by the Supreme Court, I am concerned by the Court's decision to disregard states' rights in favor of the federal government ...I join many men and women who are disappointed by the Court's ruling and I will take time to consider any measures that seek to protect religious freedom in Michigan."--Senate Majority Leader Arlan Meekhof, R-West Olive
"Now, more than ever, Christians and those who do not embrace the homosexual lifestyle will need protections, legally and also from being forced to violate their deeply held convictions as clearly outlined in our First Amendment. Just as I would not condone aggression, harassment, and force against someone who is a homosexual, I also believe those who hold strong convictions that marriage is between a man and a women should not be harassed or forced against their will to participate in events and situations that support this lifestyle." --State Rep. Cindy Gamrat, R-Plainwell

Source: http://www.freep.com/story/news/politics/2015/06/26/reaction-swift-split-sex-marriage-ruling/29329045/
