Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: Consumers Energy, DTE Energy Each to Invest $5 Billion in Partnership with Pure Michigan Business Connect
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 18, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Businesses across the state could get a boost from a combined $10 billion commitment from DTE Energy and Consumers Energy as part of the state's Pure Michigan Business Connect program, Gov. Rick Snyder said.
The program, launched in 2011, helps Michigan businesses grow and create jobs by connecting suppliers with in-state business resources. DTE and Consumers each have pledged $5 billion in investment with other Michigan-based companies over the next five years.
The announcement was made at the Small Business Association of Michigan's Annual Meeting and Networking Luncheon.
Both companies committed to the program four years ago and have exceeded their initial targets of $1 billion each in new contracts with Michigan businesses.
"Consumers Energy and DTE Energy helped build the foundation for Pure Michigan Business Connect by opening the door to millions of dollars per year in opportunities for other Michigan businesses," Snyder said. "These latest commitments, along with those of our other partners, will mean significant growth opportunities for Michigan companies. I encourage all of Michigan's business community, companies that have supply needs and those that are looking for new opportunities, to join the program."
Pure Michigan Business Connect is a public-private alliance of the MEDC, state agencies and Michigan companies that helps find ways to raise capital, get access to professional business services at little or no cost, connect through a new business-to-business network, and identify potential suppliers and resources.
The program enables Michigan businesses to have access to new sales and supply chain leads that they would not traditionally be able to secure. To help small businesses navigate the complexities of larger company purchasing processes, the Small Business Association of Michigan announced a plan to host a purchasers' summit in partnership with Pure Michigan Business Connect, featuring lead purchasing partners DTE Energy and Consumers Energy on Sept. 22, 2015 in Livonia.
"We thank these companies for their commitment to keeping and enhancing their business relationships with firms located in Michigan," SBAM President and CEO Rob Fowler said. "Our summit in partnership with Pure Michigan Business Connect will help drive economic growth across the state by providing opportunities for our energetic entrepreneurs to work with some of the state's biggest companies. The state of Michigan is playing a very appropriate role as a connector that helps keep this business activity within the state. This is real economic gardening that is vital to the success of our economy, where 98 percent of the state's firms are small businesses that collectively employ more than half of Michigan's private sector workforce."
DTE Energy has generated more than $1.3 billion in new supplier contracts since partnering with Pure Michigan Business Connect. DTE Energy's $5 billion investment represents more than $500 million annually in new supplier contracts, an increase of more than 200 percent since the program's inception.
"DTE Energy is proud to be a leader in this positive collaboration with the governor and the Michigan Economic Development Corp.," said Gerry Anderson, chairman and CEO of DTE Energy. "We have partnered with high-quality suppliers that provide us with the cost-effective products and services we need, keeping thousands of jobs in Michigan, while improving service reliability for our customers."
Through the Pure Michigan Business Connect initiative, Consumers Energy has increased purchasing with Michigan suppliers by nearly $1.2 billion since 2011.
"Consumers Energy is proud to increase our commitment to Pure Michigan Business Connect. Going forward, we will spend $1 billion per year in Michigan over the next five years, for a total of $5 billion. The MEDC has been a strong and important partner to Consumers Energy, helping us to connect with and invest in more than 400 Michigan-based suppliers, and create more than 5,000 jobs," said John G. Russell, president and chief executive officer of Consumers Energy. "Consumers Energy's increased spending with Michigan companies in our home state is helping to retain talent, encourage young people to stay in Michigan, and drive innovation, while keeping electric and natural gas service safe, reliable and affordable."
The program's network includes more than 40,000 Michigan businesses including Ford Motor Company, Blue Cross Blue Shield, General Dynamics, Michigan State University, Chrysler, University of Michigan, General Motors, KUKA Systems, Wayne State University, and Boeing.
"The Pure Michigan Business Connect partnership with DTE Energy and Consumers Energy has generated hundreds of contracts for Michigan suppliers which create or support more than 10,000 jobs, many of them with Michigan small businesses," said MEDC CEO Steve Arwood. "The collaboration will have a continued and lasting impact with both DTE and Consumers each now spending more than $1 billion annually with Michigan businesses."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-357401--,00.html
