Public Statements
Budget Makes Added Investments in Roads, Education, and Other Key Priorities
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 17, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Michigan's fiscal year 2016 budget scheduled to begin Oct. 1 was signed Wednesday by Gov. Rick Snyder, providing the funding for the continued comeback of the state that will grow Michigan even stronger. The investments are focused on serving the state's 10 million residents while building on a solid foundation for a brighter future.
Snyder signed Senate Bill 133, known as the General Omnibus Bill, sponsored by state Sen. Dave Hildenbrand, R-Lowell. He also signed House Bill 4115, known as the School Omnibus Bill, sponsored by state Rep. Al Pscholka, R-Stevensville. Together the bills provide the total investment plan for the state, which totals $54.5 billion when combined with federal funding.
"We are staying focused on creating a Michigan that will attract job providers, educate our children, protect our residents and resources, all while keeping our fiscal house in order with an eye on the long-term future," Snyder said. "I am proud of the working partnership we have with the Legislature and our ability to get budgets done on time and without delay so that others depending on state funding can have the information they need to plan their budgets."
More than 75 percent of the total budget is devoted to education and health and human services. The General Fund budget totals $10 billion and the School Aid budget totals $12.5 billion. A total of $400 million in General Fund is allotted to help repair Michigan's roads. State funding for K-12 school districts has increased by $1.2 billion from fiscal year 2011.
The bill signing marks the fifth straight year the state has completed the budget in June. The budget includes a deposit of $95 million into the state's rainy day fund, which will bring the total balance in the fund to more than $600 million by the end of fiscal year 2016, again showing the state's unwavering commitment to fiscal responsibility.
"It's the right investment package for the future," State Budget Director John Roberts said. "The governor had a vision when he took office and this budget again reflects the core budget principles he has always emphasized. The last remaining hurdle is finding a long-term solution for the funding of our roads and infrastructure, which I am confident we can do."
Another sign of Michigan's continued resurgence includes an unemployment rate down from over 11 percent in 2010 to 5.5 percent today, with more than 400,000 new private sector jobs. The state's May unemployment rate matched the national rate for the second consecutive month, marking the first time in almost 15 years that Michigan's unemployment rate no longer lags behind the national rate.
"Businesses now have a state where they can grow and thrive long into the future, creating an environment where our citizens can find a good job and build a better life here," Snyder said. "It's an exciting time to be in Michigan and the momentum continues to grow."
Snyder reiterated his appreciation for the spirit of cooperation in which the budget was created. That same spirit will serve the state well as the work continues to find a plan to generate revenue for a comprehensive solution to the state's infrastructure needs.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-357350--,00.html
