Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Travels to Montreal to Strengthen Relationships with Michigan's Largest Trade Partner
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 15, 2015
Location: Montreal, Canada

Gov. Rick Snyder is in Montreal, Canada today to meet with Quebec and Canadian government officials and key business executives on a mission to strengthen trade relationships and attract new job-creating business investments.
"Canada is Michigan's most important trading partner, both in imports and exports," Snyder said. "This is all about strengthening our relationships with the local and provincial governments as well as seeking new export and business investment opportunities in numerous sectors. Our improved business climate is a story we are taking everywhere we go and it is opening up new opportunities for Michigan."
Snyder met with Mayor of Montreal Denis Coderre to discuss matters of joint interest for the cities of Montreal and Detroit, the St. Lawrence Maritime strategy, and topics surrounding trade between Canada and Michigan. He also met with David Heurtel, the Quebec Minister overseeing sustainable development and the environment, as well as executives from Caisse de Depot, one of Canada's leading institutional fund managers.
The governor will also provide remarks at the Aero Montreal aerospace roundtable luncheon, and later in the day will meet with executives from several Canadian companies and speak at a reception hosted by the Montreal Council on Foreign Relations before returning to Michigan.
Concurrent with the governor's mission, the Michigan Economic Development Corp., along with the Council of Great Lakes Governors, is leading executives from nine Michigan companies to Canada to meet with prospective partners, distributors and buyers to increase export opportunities from Michigan to Canada. In addition to one-on-one matchmaking appointments, the group receives customized market research, market entry strategy and business service support.
Michigan is the second largest exporting state in the U.S. to Canada, with Michigan companies exporting $25.4 billion in goods and services to Canada in 2014. The country accounts for nearly 46 percent of the state's total worldwide exports. Michigan exports to this neighbor include transportation equipment, oil and gas, machinery, metal manufacturing products, chemicals and food products. Transportation equipment sales totaled nearly $14 billion in 2014, or 55 percent of all Michigan exports to Canada.
There are 254 Canadian-owned companies in Michigan that employ some 30,809 Michiganders in 904 locations. The largest include Magna International with 9,617 employees here; Toronto Dominion Bank, 1,327; Superior Plus Corp., 1,100; Guelph Tool, Inc., 900; The Thompson Company, Inc., 862; and TransForce Inc., 829.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-357214--,00.html
