Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Speaks to Importance of Third Grade Reading Workgroup Report
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 3, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder discussed the critical issue of Michigan's third grade reading proficiency rate in both his State of the State address and budget presentation in early 2015, and in March convened the Third Grade Reading Workgroup to research solutions to rapidly improve early literacy statewide. Today, the workgroup presented its report to the governor and highlighted their findings.
"This group took on the overwhelming task of laying the groundwork for making Michigan a leader in early literacy within the next 10 years," Snyder said. "Today, they released a report that outlines the scope of the problem as well as a five-point plan to drastically improve the reading proficiency rate.
"The data is clear - if Michigan's children do not have fundamental reading skills by third grade, they simply will not have the same opportunity for a successful future as their peers who had foundational reading skills early on in their education. I appreciate the work done by this group to identify solid recommendations that can benefit Michigan students, and I have great respect for the bipartisan group of legislators who have helped craft this report and will now work on reviewing and implementing the actions suggested."
Business owner John C. Kennedy, chair of the Workgroup, also serves as the Vice Chair of the Grand Valley State University Board of Trustees and is on the Leadership Council at Talent 2025 in West Michigan.
"A skilled workforce begins with early literacy. In order to fill our skilled trades gap in Michigan now and in the future, it is essential that we bridge our reading proficiency gap." Kennedy said. "The consensus here is that with early intervention and proper educational support, our students can succeed. The diagnostic-driven solutions contained in the report provide real action toward making Michigan a leader in third grade proficiency and preparing our students with the skills they need for future success."

Source:
