Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Leads Economic Delegation to Europe to Strengthen Relationships, Boost Job Investments in Michigan
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 16, 2017
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder is leading an investment mission to Europe, focusing on strengthening trade relationships and attracting job-creating business investments, particularly in the aerospace sector.
Snyder will meet with dozens of company and government leaders, from Saturday, June 17, through Friday, June 23.
"Michigan is a model on the national and global stage in the convergence of manufacturing and technology, and I'm taking this opportunity to share firsthand with leaders in other countries what Michigan has to offer," Snyder said. "As the leader in automotive research and design, we have a strong manufacturing base and a talented workforce. Those qualities are attractive to employers considering expanding in the United States, and I'm going to tell them why they should create those jobs in Michigan."
Snyder will start his mission in Paris meeting with executives from a number of French automotive companies. He will spend Tuesday and Wednesday at the International Paris Air Show, where he will meet with executives from leading aerospace companies as well as employers from Michigan that are exhibiting at the trade show.
Taking place June 19-25, the International Paris Air Show is more than 100 years old and is the largest and longest-running aerospace trade show in the world.
As the center of the North American auto industry, Michigan is the ideal location for aerospace supply chain and engineering companies:
Michigan is ranked 3rd in the nation for its pool of talent among occupations in primary demand by aerospace companies.
Nine of the 10 largest aerospace/defense R&D firms are located in Michigan.
The University of Michigan boasts the No. 3 ranked aerospace engineering program in the country.
Michigan ranks as a Top 10 state for aerospace supply chain expansion.
Following Paris, Snyder will head to Germany where he will connect with local and state government officials, then travel to Italy to meet with business executives before returning to Michigan.
Officials from Macomb and Oakland counties, as well as representatives from Automation Alley, The Right Place in Grand Rapids and the Michigan Economic Development Corporation will participate in the trip.
Leaders from 10 Michigan companies are traveling to the International Paris Air Show where they will meet with prospective partners, distributors and end customers to increase export opportunities within the aerospace sector. The trade mission is being led by Automation Alley in partnership with the Michigan Economic Development Corporation's International Trade Program.
Michigan's improved economy, strong manufacturing base and friendly business environment have made the state an attractive location for foreign investment. Recent investment in Michigan from European companies includes:
Valeo North America, Inc.- a subsidiary of Valeo SA, a French tier-1 automotive supplier and partner to all automakers worldwide. The company announced plans in February to construct a low-speed test track and a new supporting building in Auburn Hills as well as make improvements at its North American headquarters in Troy. The project is expected to generate total private investment of nearly $5 million and create 290 jobs.
Hutchinson is a France-based global leader in vibration control, fluid management, sealing technologies and materials and structures; specializing in the automotive, aerospace and industry and defense sectors. Hutchinson has an expansive global footprint that reaches twenty five countries, including four locations in the state of Michigan. In January 2016 the company opened its first North American Innovation Center, named the 616 Fab House, located in Grand Rapids, Michigan. This unique, 13,000 square foot facility provides a gathering place for customers and employees to foster innovative thinking and develop better products for the future. This sole project has contributed millions of dollars of investments within the state of Michigan as well as creating new job opportunities.
Automotive Lighting, LLC, a subsidiary of Italian-based Magneti Marelli Group, develops, manufactures and sells automotive exterior lighting products for all major OEMs worldwide. The company announced plans in January to expand in Independence Township, investing $35 million and creating 362 jobs.
The trip marks the Snyder Administration's fifth mission to Europe. Other missions led by Snyder or Lt. Gov. Brian Calley have included China, Japan, South Korea, Canada, the Netherlands, Brazil, Mexico, Israel, Chile, Columbia, India, Switzerland, Ireland and Great Britain. The missions have resulted in hundreds of millions of dollars of investments in Michigan by foreign companies adding jobs to Michigan's workforce.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-424116--,00.html
