Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: Michigan Today Accelerates Work to Improve its Most-Struggling Schools
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: May 12, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Michigan today starts accelerating its efforts to improve the state's most-struggling schools, with intensifying its focus on helping students in challenging academic environments get the best education possible.
The state School Reform Office and accountability programs formally move to the Department of Technology, Management and Budget from the Michigan Department of Education, the result of Executive Order 2015-9, signed in March.
"We know that every child in Michigan must have access to good public schools to be able to reach their full potential and lead successful, productive lives," Snyder said. "Our children risk lifelong struggles if they don't have a solid academic foundation. There are chronically failing schools in all areas of our state and we need to redouble our efforts to help turn them around."
The School Reform Office was created in 2010 to establish policies and procedures for turnaround in struggling schools.
Per state law, the office will focus on the lowest-performing 5 percent of the state's schools, with interventions that include helping teachers become more effective, supporting effective school leaders and helping ensure academic and financial resources are used in the best ways possible.
The School Reform District, which was created along with the School Reform Office through state law, is one option for schools that aren't getting the needed results despite continued intervention -- with a goal of improving academic achievement for students as quickly as possible. Schools in districts with an emergency manager, such as Detroit Public Schools, are not eligible for placement into the School Reform District. To date, no schools have been put into the School Reform District, but that might change as the state takes a fresh look at the lowest-performing schools.
DTMB has proven itself with its work in housing the Center for Educational Performance and Information. Moving the School Reform Office to DTMB complements that work and will ensure the office has the latest data as it moves forward working with struggling schools.
The reform office also will review the status of the Education Achievement Authority. In 2011, 15 of the lowest-performing schools in the Detroit Public Schools were put under the EAA. The reform office will review the performance and structure of the schools to help determine next steps. The administration is also looking at how the EAA schools fit into the broader Detroit education reforms.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-354414--,00.html
