Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder appoints Marie Waalkes to lead Office of State Employer
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 8, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

The state will continue its focus on strong and inclusive employee relations with the selection of Marie Waalkes, of Lansing, to replace Jan Winters as Michigan's director of the Office of the State Employer (OSE), Gov. Rick Snyder said. Winters was selected by the Civil Service Commission as the state's new personnel director on Friday, March 27.
OSE oversees the state's employee relations, represents the governor in collective bargaining negotiations and recommends a comprehensive plan for rates of compensation and other conditions of employment for non-represented employees to the Civil Service Commission.
"Marie's work as a state trooper and major with the Michigan State Police as well as vast experience with employee relations in numerous settings makes her a perfect choice. I'm confident she will be a principled leader who will ensure an inclusive and constructive work environment that benefits our hardworking employees, Michiganders and taxpayers," Snyder said. "I also congratulate Jan on her new role and thank her for her continued service and commitment to the state employees and people of Michigan. Her human resources knowledge will be an invaluable asset to the Commission."
Waalkes has extensive background working in government and public administration. She is currently OSE's employee health management director. Before that, she served as a member of the Employment Relations Board of the Civil Service Commission. Waalkes has also held multiple leadership positions serving as director of security for the Michigan Court of Appeals and as director for the Ottawa County Department of Human Resources. She also worked as a practicing attorney in Lansing where she specialized in labor and employment law.
Waalkes began her career in law enforcement, serving 25 years with the Michigan State Police, rising from a trooper to ultimately a major. She earned a bachelor's degree in criminal justice from Michigan State University and law degree from Thomas M. Cooley Law School.

Source:
