Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: Healthy Michigan Plan has enrolled more than 600,000 people in first year
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 31, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

The Healthy Michigan Plan is now providing health care coverage for more than 600,000 enrollees in the year following its launch, helping hard-working Michiganders get the care they need, Gov. Rick Snyder said.
Enrollment for the Healthy Michigan Plan started on April 1, 2014, extending health care benefits to low-income residents and encouraging healthy behaviors. As of today, 605,000 Michigan residents have enrolled in the program which has resulted in more than 344,000 primary care visits.
"When the Healthy Michigan Plan launched, we set into motion a Michigan-specific plan to improve the health and wellness of our residents and strength of our economy," Snyder said. "A year later, we are seeing our residents step up to enroll in the plan so they can address potential health risks and get the care they need to lead healthy, productive lives."
One of the features that make the Healthy Michigan Plan unique is its focus on encouraging beneficiaries to take steps to improve their health through healthy behaviors. Since its launch, the Healthy Michigan Plan has already resulted in more than 344,000 primary care visits, 116,000 preventive care visits, 35,000 mammograms, and 17,000 colonoscopies.
"A year into the Healthy Michigan Plan program, the numbers show that Michigan residents are serious about taking the preventative measures necessary to improve health outcomes and reduce the risks of more serious, costly health complications," said Nick Lyon, director of the Michigan Department of Community Health. "Moving forward, we will continue our efforts to ensure that residents understand how to use the health benefits available to them."
As part of the ongoing effort to assess the goals and results of the Healthy Michigan Plan, MDCH commissioned the University of Michigan Institute for Healthcare Policy and Innovation to complete a recently begun five-year study of the plan's implementation. The study also satisfies a Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services federal waiver requirement to commission an independent evaluation of the Healthy Michigan Plan.
Snyder and MDCH announced that the Healthy Michigan Plan had surpassed its original two-year and total eligibility projection by reaching more than 477,000 enrollees on Dec. 11, 2014. Earlier in the year, on July 10, Michigan surpassed the entire first-year enrollment goal by reaching 323,000.
The plan was signed into law by Snyder in September 2013 to emphasize personal responsibility while reducing uncompensated care that shifts costs onto taxpayers and businesses. Beneficiaries are required to share in the costs, and the plan has incentives for individuals to maintain or improve their health.
Health coverage under the Healthy Michigan Plan includes both federally and state mandated Essential Health Benefits such as ambulatory patient services, emergency services, hospitalization, mental health and substance use disorder services. These benefits encompass behavioral health treatment, prescription drugs, rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices, laboratory services, preventive and wellness services and chronic disease management, pediatric services including oral and vision care, and other medically necessary services as needed.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-351257--,00.html
