Public Statements
Blog: The Numbers are in, and Michigan's Comeback Continues
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 25, 2015
Location: Unknown

By Brendan Geraghty
When Governor Rick Snyder took office in 2011, he inherited a crippled Michigan economy, a double-figure unemployment rate, and stagnant job growth.
But Michigan hired him to solve problems, and that's what he's done.
At his State of the State address earlier this year, Governor Snyder highlighted Michigan's 300,000 new private sector jobs and the state's declining unemployment rate.
Today, the new numbers are in, and we can say with confidence that Michigan's comeback has continued.
February reports show that nearly 400,000 private sector jobs have been created since Governor Snyder took office, making Michigan number five in the nation for job growth and surpassing Ohio for number one in the Midwest.
It doesn't stop there.
Michigan's unemployment rate is down to 5.9 percent, and from January 2014 to January 2015, only three other states saw their jobless rate decrease more than Michigan. The size of the state's workforce has also risen, increasing by 1.2 percent since December 2010.
"It's great to see more and more Michiganders going to work every day," Governor Snyder said. "We can't stop now, though. There's always more work to be done."
And that's why earlier this month, Governor Snyder officially launched the Michigan Department of Talent and Economic Development (TED). The new department demonstrates that Michigan is dedicated to further preparing and connecting talented individuals to the growing number of jobs in Michigan's reinvented economy. To continue the comeback, Governor Snyder has prioritized the skill trades, an area where Michigan can be an example for the rest of the nation.
"Leading in the field of career tech education and the skilled trades is how we're going to make Michigan number one again," the governor said. "The place that has the best, most talented people with the right training has a major economic advantage, and I want that place to be right here in Michigan."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_60279-350856--,00.html
