Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Taps Nick Khouri to Serve as State Treasurer
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 17, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Nick Khouri, of Plymouth, who has extensive experience in both state government and the private sector, has been named Michigan's new State Treasurer to replace outgoing Kevin Clinton, Gov. Rick Snyder said.
"Nick's expertise in tax policies and financial issues will be a great asset as we continue working to reinvent state government," Snyder said. "His strong track record of proven service in both the private and public sectors will be essential in this critical state role that directly works with and impacts Michiganders, communities and businesses."
Khouri returns to state government after serving as Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs at DTE Energy in Detroit, where he oversaw governmental and regulatory relations, community affairs and communications.
He also served as Vice President and Treasurer at DTE and a vice president of Public Sector Consultants, where he focused on economic development, public infrastructure, and state and local tax policy. In the 1990s, Khouri was the state's chief deputy treasurer and chief economist of the Senate Fiscal Agency.
He presently chairs the state's Investment Advisory Council. Khouri earned a bachelor's degree in economics from University of Michigan and a master's degree in economics from Michigan State University.
Khouri replaces Kevin Clinton who is returning to the private sector after serving as State Treasurer and Director of the state Department of Insurance and Financial Services.
"Kevin served the state with honor and distinction as a key part of our team, dealing with many tough challenges including helping financially distressed cities and significant tax policy changes," Snyder said. "We are sorry to lose him, but I'm confident he'll continue to bring great value to our state with his return to the insurance and financial industry."
Khouri's appointment is effective April 20. Clinton's last day will be April 17. They will work together in the interim to ensure a smooth, seamless transition. The appointment is subject to the advice and consent of the state Senate.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-350003--,00.html
