Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Supplemental Budget Bills, Maintains Commitment to Fiscal Responsibility
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 10, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation that reduces government spending to ensure Michigan's economy continues to grow stronger. The bills were crucial for the state to continue paying debts and honoring past commitments.
"These bills continue our efforts to fiscal responsibility by reducing spending to help to keep Michigan's economy growing," said Snyder. "I appreciate the partnership from the Legislature to identify reductions that make sense and protect our key priorities areas such as K-12 education, community colleges, higher education, and funding for locals. Protecting the education system was a top priority for everyone."
House Bills 4110 and 4112, sponsored by House Appropriations Chairman Rep. Al Pscholka, provide for more than $400 million in General Fund reductions for the current fiscal year.
"Michigan has come a long way since over the past four years and continuing to be responsible with the state budget ensures our comeback continues," Snyder said. "Making responsible decisions like this have led to key successes such as the creation of more than 300,000 private sector jobs, unemployment is at its lowest rate in 12 years, rising personal income growth, increasing housing values, and Detroit is emerging from bankruptcy with a stronger and brighter future."
The bills will take immediate effect and are now Public Acts 5 and 6 of 2015.
"The signing of these bills is a great accomplishment for the Legislature -- we successfully once again balanced the state's checkbook, without borrowing money or reducing funding to schools or local governments," Pscholka said. "A decade ago this would have been revolutionary. Today, it's the new normal."
For more information on this and other legislation, visit www.legislature.mi.gov.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-349596--,00.html
