Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Wraps Up Investment Mission to Israel, Promotes Tech Collaborations and Investment Opportunities
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Feb. 2, 2017
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder wrapped up his mission to Israel today after spending time on Wednesday with business executives and government leaders discussing opportunities for increased trade and investment between Michigan and Israel.
"Our meetings throughout the week focused on exploring opportunities for collaboration on cybersecurity matters, particularly in the area of connected, automated and autonomous vehicles," Snyder said. "We are continuing to work with Israel to foster economic growth and innovation through promotion and bilateral cooperation of industrial research and development."
Snyder began the trip's last day by visiting AT&T Foundry, an innovation center in Ra'anana that brings start-ups and developers together with AT&T and technology providers. The governor and his delegation also toured HARMAN/TowerSec, a global automotive cybersecurity company specializing in network protection for connected vehicles.
Snyder and his delegation later met with Team8 in Tel Aviv. The company's mission is to assist cybertechnology startups in developing long-term sustainable businesses that work on the biggest cybersecurity problems.
The final meeting of the day was an automotive roundtable at the GM Advanced Technologies Center in nearby Herzliya Pituach. There, Snyder and the delegation met with the head of the center, Gil Golan, as well as other business and government leaders to discuss the relationship between automotive and mobility, cybertechnology and potential bilateral investment opportunities.
"It's important that we focus on Michigan's robust and expanding technology ecosystem and how it is an integral part of the mobility industry," Snyder said. "This will allow Michigan to continue to set itself apart from other states and countries not only in the cybertechnology field, but as the leader in the mobility movement."
Snyder was joined on his mission by two department directors: Steve Arwood, CEO of the Michigan Economic Development Corporation, and David Behen, director of the Department of Technology, Management and Budget.
Snyder concluded the day by joining a separate delegation of business leaders from nine Michigan companies to discuss their meetings with prospective business partners, distributors and buyers that may lead to increased export opportunities.
The Israel mission was conducted at the invitation of the Israeli government and hosted by the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit. This is Gov. Snyder's second investment mission to Israel since taking office in 2011.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-403887--,00.html
