Public Statements
Governor's Economic and Education Summit Awards Focus on Educators, Businesses Working Together
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 3, 2015
Location: Detroit, MI

Educators, businesses and community leaders from across the state were honored today for their efforts to work together on opportunities for students to gain in-demand skills, part of Michigan's efforts to lead the nation in building a talented workforce.
The Collaborate, Connect, and Create awards are each presented to one of Michigan's 10 Prosperity Regions, which were created under the Gov. Rick Snyder to inspire collaboration and provide services more effectively and efficiently. The awards were presented by MEDC CEO Steve Arwood at the Michigan Governor's Economic and Education Summit in Detroit.
"Michigan has some of the best, brightest and most innovative entrepreneurs and educators in the nation," Snyder said. "These local businesses, schools, and organizations are working together in really exciting ways to build a talent pipeline that will keep Michigan's economy moving for generations."
Region 1 and the Upper Peninsula Education Partnership received the summit's 2015 Collaborate Award.
Led by the presidents of the Upper Peninsula's three universities, the partnership brings together community colleges, intermediate school districts and business leaders to achieve one common goal: meeting the unique talent needs of the Upper Peninsula.
The Great Lakes Bay Region Alliance STEM Impact Initiative earned the summit's 2015 Connect Award.
The program connects local job makers with education leaders and the nonprofit community to get Great Lakes Bay area students excited and prepared for tomorrow's careers in science, technology, engineering and math.
Region 4 and West Michigan's Talent 2025 was awarded the summit's Create Award. Talent 2025 brings together CEOs from across Grand Rapids, Holland and other parts of the region to build a talent development system to meet the unique demands of job-creators.
By focusing on results and serving personally as accountability partners, the group's members are committed to making West Michigan one of the world's top 20 economic regions and a magnet for both talent and jobs.
Prosperity Regions are part of the Governor's Regional Prosperity Initiative. The effort works to align around common boundaries to help leaders work more closely together and provide better services. The program also includes a local voluntary grant initiative to support collaboration where it is happening and encourage it where more can still be done. For more information on Prosperity Region, please visit www.michigan.gov/regionalprosperity.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-348883--,00.html
