Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder taps Karen McPhee to Guide Education Efforts as a Senior Policy Adviser
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 2, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Karen McPhee, a West Michigan educator with an extensive background in career readiness programs, has been named Gov. Rick Snyder's senior education policy adviser.
McPhee has been superintendent of the Ottawa Area Intermediate School District since 2004, and has worked with the district since 1984. Snyder announced McPhee's appointment at today's Governor's Economic and Education Summit in Detroit.
"We're focused on improving education for all Michigan students, developing life-long learners and a talented workforce that will help strengthen our state for decades to come," Snyder said. "Karen is passionate about helping young people reach their potential, and has been a leader in working collaboratively with districts, higher education and the business community to provide opportunities for students."
The Ottawa Area Intermediate School District is the sixth-largest in the state, supporting 55,000 students in 11 school districts, six charter schools and 18 parochial schools. The intermediate district's programs include the Careerline Tech Center; which provides training in 24 career areas to high school students; futurePREP'd, a community and business-driven partnership focused on providing students with career exploration and training; and the Thompson M-TEC, which partners with Grand Rapids Community College and businesses in the region to provide training for adults.
As senior education policy adviser, McPhee will help administration efforts to improve reading programs in early grades, work to help prepare high school students for college and careers and improve academics and transparency in all Michigan schools.
"I am humbled and excited to be joining the Governor's team. I look forward to working with educators, stakeholders, and policy leaders on behalf of Michigan's 1.5 million students," McPhee said. "The Governor has an ambitious plan for improving educational outcomes and investing in talent development and the citizens of our state deserve no less."
McPhee replaces Craig Ruff, who retired at the end of 2014.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-348768--,00.html
