Public Statements
First Lady Sue Snyder Partners With Shades of Pink Breast Cancer Foundation
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Feb. 9, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Eleven-year breast cancer survivor and First Lady Sue Snyder will support Southeast Michigan women battling cancer and serve as honorary chair of the Shades of Pink Foundation 8th Annual Zoo Walk in honor of the foundation's 10th anniversary.
Founded in 2005, the Shades of Pink Foundation provides temporary financial assistance to women experiencing monetary hardship as a direct result of breast cancer diagnosis and treatment. The foundation works to connect families with resources needed to cover daily living expenses including mortgage and rent payments, transportation costs, day care expenses, bills, and grocery payments.
"Breast cancer awareness has long been an issue close to my heart. When I first learned about the Shades of Pink Foundation I knew right away this was a cause I wanted to get behind," said Snyder. "Cancer is much more than just fighting for your health, a diagnosis starts an emotionally challenging journey for too many. The last thing families should have to worry about is how to pay medical bills, afford daycare and put food on the table. This organization helps families focus on what's truly important, spending time together, overcoming the cancer and healing."
In 2014, the foundation helped provide financial assistance to more than 100 women in Wayne, Oakland, Macomb, Livingston and Genesee Counties. Last year, the walk at the zoo raised $200,000 and is the organization's biggest fundraiser with 100 percent of the proceeds going directly to breast cancer patients and their families.
"Our goal is to help women continue to live as normally as possible while going through treatment. There is a real need in the community for the type of assistance we provide," said Shades of Pink Foundation Vice President and Medical Director Dr. Pamela Benitez. "We have received such a high number of applicants in January alone that we already have a number of requests we're unable to fulfill. It would be wonderful to help every woman in need."
The 8th annual zoo walk will take place at the Detroit Zoo on Saturday, April 25 with an opening ceremony beginning at 8 a.m. Participants will have the option to complete either a one, three or six mile course.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-347140--,00.html
