Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: New Department to Focus on People, Promote River of Opportunity
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Feb. 6, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder has signed an executive order to align family and health related services by creating the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS). Snyder first announced his plans for the department during his State of the State address on Jan. 20.
In the Governor's 2015 State of the State, he outlined his vision for focusing government on people rather than programs. He called this new perspective, "The River of Opportunity." Through this executive action, Snyder aims to better serve residents by promoting improved health outcomes, reducing health risks, and supporting stable and safe families while encouraging self-sufficiency.
"The River of Opportunity is about putting people first by delivering services in a smarter, person-centered way with less fragmentation," said Snyder. "We must do everything we can to ensure that all residents are treated with dignity and respect, and improve program coordination so we are positioned to ensure better outcomes for Michigan families."
In addition to the executive order, Snyder also announced today his appointment of Nick Lyon as the director of the new department. Lyon had previously and concurrently served as director of the Michigan Department of Community Health (MDCH) and interim director of the Department of Human Services (DHS).
"As director of the new Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, I remain steadfastly committed to protecting the safety, health and wellbeing of Michigan's most vulnerable populations," said Lyon. "Moving forward, our goal is to integrate and deliver services in a thoughtful way to best serve our residents."
The executive order establishes a framework to eliminate silos in state government and integrate services. Both the planning process and future department operations will be guided by Gov. Snyder's group executive model -- a structure that allows for productive dialogue between and within departments to ensure Michigan's children and families are being served in a way that is collaborative as well as efficient, effective and accountable.

Source:
