Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: Michigan Can Lead the Nation in Career Tech Education
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 21, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Michigan can lead the nation in developing a skilled workforce, and businesses are already working with colleges on innovative approaches to closing the skills gap, Gov. Rick Snyder said.
Snyder during Tuesday's State of the State address called for changing the way schools approach the skilled trades and increasing collaboration so students are graduating with in-demand skills.
Today, Snyder was joined by Lansing Community College President Brent Knight and students who have worked through an LCC apprenticeship program with leaders at Franchino Mold and Engineering on Grand River Avenue in Lansing.
"We are serious about leading the nation with new best practices in workforce development," Snyder said. "The skills gap is a national challenge and the state that best addresses this need will stand apart in fostering new business growth, attracting new businesses and creating more and better jobs. The next step in creating a great environment for business growth is to develop the most skilled workforce in the nation."
Franchino Mold and Engineering is a designer and manufacturer of plastic injection molds and die cast dies that was first established in 1955. The company has struggled to fill openings for skilled trade employees in CNC machinists, mold makers, tool & die makers, maintenance technicians and welders.
"One of the most important priorities -- and an obstacle to our future growth -- is finding, training and retaining a skilled work force," said Brad Rusthoven, Franchino human resources manager. "We can buy the best equipment and the most technological machinery available, but if we don't have any skilled and educated CNC machinists and moldmakers, we can't be successful and we certainly can't grow."
LCC has worked with Franchino and other local companies to develop an apprenticeship program to help workers get an education while gaining valuable job skills. The community college also recently joined the Michigan Advanced Technician Training program, and offering mechatronics and information technology as part of the program. MAT2 is a three-year training program that includes on-the-job training with pay at local employers for students and results in an associate degree in a high-demand trade.
"We are working hard to establish pathways that lead to sustainable careers through on-the-job training and apprenticeship programs," said LCC President, Dr. Brent Knight. "Employers have repeatedly spoken about the difficulty of finding workers with the skills needed for today's jobs. If we can bridge the gap between what students learn in school, and what companies need from their employees, it will be a win-win for all involved."
Snyder was joined by Stephanie Comai, the new director of the state's Talent Investment Agency, who outlined additional state workforce programs that will be housed in the new Michigan Department of Talent and Economic Development announced last month.
"Talent is the new currency of economic growth," Snyder said. "We can create a river of opportunity improving talent capacities through better matches of our programs to the needs of industry and our workforce, those in it now and those who will move into these much needed careers in the future."
Comai pointed to the state's Skilled Trade Training Fund and the Community College Skilled Trades Equipment Program as fresh initiatives that will support the governor's goals.
"We are making $50 million available to community colleges to upgrade their facilities with new machinery and technologies for their students to learn on," she said. "Franchino is one of the numerous Michigan companies that have received funds from STTF to train their workforce in new processes or on new equipment."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-345897--,00.html
