Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Issues Executive Order to Reduce Homelessness in Michigan
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 16, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed two executive orders working to support Michigan residents who are homeless or facing mental health issues.
"It's important to provide all Michiganders with the support they need to improve their quality of life," Snyder said. "These executive orders help ensure that advancing mental health and wellness and ending homelessness remain priorities moving forward."
Executive Order 2015-2 creates the Michigan Interagency Council on Homelessness. The council, which was a recommendation of the Mental Health and Wellness Commission, will update a 10-year plan to end homelessness and monitor and participate in its implementation. According to the Michigan State Housing Development Authority, more than 86,000 people are homeless and thousands of those individuals have a mental illness, developmental disability or substance use disorder.
The council will include representatives from the Michigan departments of Military and Veterans Affairs, Community Health, Corrections, Education, Human Services, Natural Resources, Technology, Management and Budget and the Michigan State Housing Development Authority. The council also will include a representative from the courts and four members of the public.
Executive Order 2015-3 dissolves the Michigan Mental Health and Wellness Commission, which has completed its duty to provide recommendations on how to improve lives of and outcomes for individuals and families living with mental illnesses, developmental disabilities and substance use disorders in the state.
The commission made great progress in identifying ways the state can make measurable improvements for those dealing with mental health issues. The Legislature and the Michigan Department of Community Health will continue to work to carry out its recommendations.
"The commission has done great work to execute recommendations that increase independence, promote self-determination and improve the quality of life for those Michiganders affected by mental illness, developmental disabilities and substance use disorders," said Lt. Gov. Brian Calley, chair of the commission. "I thank each of the commission members for their service and know we all look forward to seeing the outstanding recommendations become a reality in the near future."
The full text of the executive orders is available at www.michigan.gov/snyder.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-345567--,00.html
