Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Legislation to Help Keep Families in Homes, Prevent Foreclosure
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 14, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation to help homeowners meet their tax obligations, prevent foreclosure and encourage fair and honest purchase of previously foreclosed properties.
The bills aim to reduce the foreclosure rate in Wayne County which is foreclosing on more than 76,000 residential, commercial, and industrial properties throughout the county with 62,000 located in Detroit.
"Helping homeowners overcome financial hardship and meet their legal responsibilities will help keep families in their homes in a responsible way, lessen the number of vacant buildings and improve public safety while generating tax dollars to provide vital services to city and county residents," Snyder said. "Developing a more transparent foreclosure system also ensures previously foreclosed property does not return to the hands of delinquent taxpayers."
House Bills 4882 and 5421, sponsored by former state Reps. Phil Cavanaugh and John Walsh, respectively, allow homeowners facing financial hardship to use a payment plan to meet tax responsibilities and avoid foreclosure. The payment plan will be created by the foreclosing governmental unit and agreed upon by the landowner. The bills also allow county treasurers to waive additional monthly interest accrued in delinquent tax cases once the payment plan is completed, allowing individuals to maintain ownership of their property.
"Thanks to this collaborative effort between Governor Snyder, the legislature, Mayor Duggan, and our office; we will be able to assist distressed taxpayers, stabilize communities, and address blight in a manner never before possible. This is a great day for Detroit, Wayne County, and Michigan," said Wayne County Treasurer Raymond J. Wojtowicz.
Senate Bill 295, sponsored by former state Sen. Tupac Hunter, was a response to the Governor's call in his 2012 Public Safety Special Message to prohibit individuals with unpaid taxes on blighted properties from buying more property at public auctions. The bill prevents bidders with outstanding tax payments or unpaid blight fines from acquiring more properties by requiring an affidavit indicating they don't have any unresolved violations. Local governments can cancel sales to bidders who file false affidavits, after which their purchases are considered void.
"With the Governor enacting this important legislation today, more than 20,000 Detroit homeowners now have the ability to restructure their property tax debts to avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes. We will be working closely with the Wayne County Treasurer Raymond Wojtowicz and the Detroit Land Bank to make sure Detroiters facing possible foreclosure are aware of this important opportunity," said Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan.
HB 5398, sponsored by state Rep. Jon Bumstead, allows a foreclosing governmental unit for a county (other than the State) to acquire property owned by the State, the Federal government, a land bank fast track authority, or another governmental entity, to facilitate the sale of tax-reverted property.
The bills are now Public Acts 499-502 of 2014, respectively.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-345331--,00.html
