Public Statements
Gov. Snyder, Attorney General Schuette Announce That Progress Has Been Made on U.P. Energy Solution
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 13, 2015
Location: Lansing, MI

A series of agreements that lay the groundwork for elimination of a costly utility rate payment for Upper Peninsula families and job providers, while providing the region with long-term, cost-effective energy reliability and ensuring the U.P.'s energy independence were announced today by Gov. Rick Snyder, Attorney General Bill Schuette, Wisconsin Energy Corp. (We Energies), Upper Peninsula Power Co. (UPPCO), Invenergy, and Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (Cliffs).
The proposed solutions meet two key goals for policymakers: 1) protecting U.P. ratepayers from years of costly System Support Resource (SSR) payments for the Presque Isle Power Plant in Marquette, and 2) providing replacement electric generation in the U.P. to avoid a likely federal mandate to pay half a billion dollars or more to remain dependent on out-of-state coal plants.
"This is a critical development for the Upper Peninsula and our entire state. I commend all involved parties for their commitment to finding a solution and thank them for their many efforts in reaching this accord," Snyder said. "The solution these agreements advance ensures reliability, rids the U.P. of years of unaffordable charges, improves the environment, and most of all gives the U.P. the power and ability to adapt to the future."
"Our primary goal is to protect U.P. families from unreasonable rate increases to the greatest extent possible," Schuette said. "We remain committed to vigorously opposing any short-term rate increases due to the costs of maintaining the Presque Isle Power Plant, but this agreement will help avoid long-term burdens on U.P. ratepayers while increasing energy reliability and the opportunity for future economic growth."
While the effect on different U.P. electric customers will vary widely, they will see a reduction on their bills after the SSR payments cease, which likely will be in July.


Source:
