Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Bill Ensuring State Debts are Repaid Before Lottery Winnings are Awarded
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Dec. 22, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation adding additional accountability within the lottery system by guaranteeing certain state debts are repaid before winnings are awarded.
Senate Bill 528, sponsored by state Sen. Mike Nofs, streamlines how the Department of Treasury collects certain state liabilities from lottery winnings. Treasury already offsets lottery winnings for liabilities owed to the state such as child support and unemployment insurance claims.
"It's essential that the state has a strong, reliable safety net for Michiganders who need our help," Snyder said. "At the same time, it's also important to have procedures in place to make sure help is given to those who need it most."
It is now PA 388 of 2014.
Snyder also signed five other bills:
SB 845, sponsored by state Sen. Goeff Hansen, grants district court magistrates the authority to issue arrest warrants electronically from any location in the state. The bill is part of a packaged of bills the governor signed on Thursday, Dec. 18. It is now PA 389.
SB 903, sponsored by state Sen. Dave Hildenbrand, raises money and awareness to support the bone marrow donor registry by creating a fundraising license plate. All proceeds will benefit the newly established "Be the Match" fund, which will be allocated for research, patient support, education, and enrolling new bone marrow donors. It is now PA 390.
SB 940, sponsored by state Sen. Jim Ananich, gives contractors and shipping companies more flexibility when transporting pipes in Michigan. The bill now allows exemptions for ductile pipes in addition to concrete pipes. It is now PA 391.
House Bill 5192, sponsored by state Rep. Andrea LaFontaine, updates the Preferred Mortality Tables that are used by actuaries within the life insurance industry to determine insurance premiums and reserves. The bill helps insurers determine adequate reserve levels to pay claims. It is now PA 392.
HB 4998, sponsored by state Rep. Wayne Schmidt, requires the Michigan Strategic Fund president to appoint a group of volunteer entrepreneurs who will be responsible for helping small-business owners better connect with government economic development programs. The bill also requires department directors to work with entrepreneurs to increase efficiency, improve communications and further enhance the state's economic climate. It is now PA 393.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-344076--,00.html
