Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Legislation Increasing Courtroom Efficiency in Michigan
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Dec. 18, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation streamlining the district court system by creating more flexibility for magistrates.
Senate Bill 931, sponsored by state Sen. Rick Jones, allows court magistrates to electronically authorize search warrants for their district from any location in the state. The bill also calls for a police officer to file search warrant documentation directly with district judges or magistrates rather than through the court.
"These bills help modernize our district court system to enable our magistrates to be more efficient and better serve Michiganders," Snyder said.
SB 932, also sponsored by Jones, grants magistrates the authority to hear, preside over and decide certain motions for civil cases.
The bills are Public Acts 383 and 384 of 2014, respectively.
Snyder also signed three other bills:
SB 880, sponsored by state Sen. Vincent Gregory, extends the timeline for psychology doctoral programs to apply for accreditation. The bill provides continued stability for students and employees by allowing additional time for programs to obtain designation from the National Register or accreditation from the American or Canadian psychological associations. It is now PA 385.
SB 1092, sponsored by state Sen. Tom Casperson, clarifies rules for placement of traffic lights in their relationship to Michigan roadways. This legislation gives local governments and the Michigan Department of Transportation the ability to consider using temporary traffic signals on roadsides, which can be less costly. It is now PA 386.
House Bill 5230, sponsored by state Rep. Phil Cavanagh, adds to strengthened penalties for human trafficking signed this fall by Gov. Snyder. The bill allows additional locations related to human trafficking to be declared a nuisance. This includes dangerous buildings, vehicles, boats, aircraft or any other location where human trafficking is conducted or a firearm or dangerous weapon is unlawfully used. It is now PA 387.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-343854--,00.html
