Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Says State Receiving $70 Million for Health Care Innovations to Better Serve Families
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Dec. 16, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today announced that Michigan will receive $70 million in federal funding during the next four years to support innovative health care system enhancements that benefit families.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services dollars will fund Michigan's Blueprint for Health Innovation, a plan that guides the state as it pursues better coordination of care, lower costs and improved health outcomes.
"This is exciting news that will make a meaningful difference in the lives of many residents," Snyder said. "These innovative approaches will help ensure better outcomes for patients while providing value to individuals and businesses who pay for health care."
The Blueprint for Health Innovation is Michigan's final product of the State Innovation Model planning process, which enjoyed the support of partners in the health care and business communities during the last year.
The funding will support multipayer payment and health care delivery system transformation to improve health system performance for residents and reduce costs. The model also recognizes that better health requires a comprehensive approach involving safe and healthy communities, workplaces, homes and lifestyles.
The Blueprint for Health Innovation will focus on transforming service delivery and payment models by focusing on patient- and family-centered health homes; coordination and accountability of the medical neighborhood; a care-bridge to behavioral health and long-term care; and integration between and among health care and community resources, including the Pathways community hub model.
The state will align the program and outcome metrics across payers, prioritize investments in health information exchange and data analytic capacity, incorporate commitment to population health in line with the National Quality Strategy, and identify steps to support future implementation.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-343615--,00.html
