Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Applauds Project Recommendations of Michigan Natural Resources Trust Fund Board
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Dec. 8, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today applauded the Michigan Natural Resources Trust Fund board of trustees' recommendation to the Legislature that 69 recreational development projects and land acquisitions totaling $24.7 million be funded in 2015.
The board considered a total of 156 applications seeking $44.7 million in funding. In a competitive process, all eligible applications were evaluated on scoring criteria developed by the Trust Fund board.
"Broader public access to plentiful, quality outdoor recreation opportunities plays a central role in Michigan's economy and quality of life for residents and visitors," said Gov. Rick Snyder. "The Michigan Natural Resources Trust Fund continues to support active, healthy lifestyles for people of all abilities, and has done so for nearly 40 years, funding recreational opportunities in every county in Michigan."
The Trust Fund board recommends funding to both state and local agencies for development projects and land acquisitions that will further access to public outdoor recreation.
This year, the board recommended $18.2 million for acquisition grants and $6.4 million for development grants. Sixteen acquisition grants were awarded to local units of government for a total of $8.8 million, while nine acquisition grants went to the Department of Natural Resources for projects totaling $9.3 million. The Trust Fund board also recommended a total of $5.5 million in 40 development grants be awarded to local units of government while four DNR projects garnered a total of $940,000.
"This year's recommended grants reflect the Trust Fund board's strong engagement with local communities and add to Michigan's world-class network of trails," said DNR Director Keith Creagh. "Opportunities for outdoor recreation enhance a community's ability to attract residents, businesses and tourists. That's an essential component of reinventing Michigan."
The MNRTF is a restricted fund established in 1976 to provide funding for public acquisition of lands for resource protection and outdoor recreation, as well as for public outdoor recreation development projects. It is funded through interest earned on funds derived from the development of publicly owned minerals. Over the past 39 years, the Trust Fund has granted more than $1 billion to state and local units of government to develop and improve recreation opportunities in Michigan.
The Trust Fund board's recommendations will go to the Legislature for review as part of the appropriations process. Upon approval, the Legislature forwards a bill to the governor for his signature.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-342685--,00.html
