Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Legislation to Help Ensure Higher Quality of Care for Michigan's Veterans
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 11, 2017
Location: Lansing, MI

All of Michigan's veterans will be ensured safe and quality long-term care under legislation signed today by Gov. Rick Snyder that establishes the Michigan Veterans' Facility Authority.
In October, Gov. Snyder also signed legislation requiring quarterly reports on the conditions of state veterans' homes.
"Michigan's veterans deserve to receive the highest standards of care in the places they call home," Snyder said. "Establishing this Authority helps ensure that all of Michigan's veterans who live in state-operated facilities receive quality long-term care in a safe environment."
Senate Bill 1100, sponsored by state Sen. Dave Hildenbrand, creates the Michigan Veterans' Facility Authority, a semi-autonomous state authority within the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs. It is now Public Act 560 of 2016.
The nine-member Authority will include the director of the DMVA and eight members appointed by the Governor for four-year terms. It will be able to solicit funds and issue bonds for the purpose of purchasing or leasing land and facilities to construct new veterans' homes, or renovate existing facilities. The Authority also will be responsible for administering any veterans' homes built or acquired, ensuring that the state's veteran facilities are incorporating industry best practices, which will lead to higher quality long-term care for Michigan's veterans.
The Grand Rapids and D.J. Jacobetti Homes for Veterans would remain under the authority of the Board of Managers established under the Michigan Veterans' Facility Act, unless the Board relinquishes control to the Authority.
Senate Bills 1097, 1098 and 1099, sponsored by state Sens. Peter MacGregor, Dave Hildenbrand and Jim Stamas, respectively, make various amendments to the Michigan Veterans' Facility Act for the purposes of aligning that act with the new act created by SB 1100. The measures are now Public Acts 561--563, respectively, of 2016.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-401997--,00.html
