Public Statements
Snyder on First Day of China Investment Mission: Michigan Is Open for Business, Travel
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Nov. 21, 2014
Location: Beijing, China

Gov. Rick Snyder kicked off the first day of his investment mission in China today by promoting Michigan travel and meeting with government officials and business executives to strengthen relationships and promote the strong economic climate and business opportunities in Michigan. He also highlighted state companies producing high quality manufactured and food and agricultural products.
"Michigan is a great place to visit, a great place for business investment, and home to companies who are world-class leaders in countless goods and services," Snyder told Chinese reporters at media roundtables. "Michigan's natural beauty is matched by a manufacturing base that is recognized across the globe for technology leadership and a skilled workforce unmatched anywhere in North America."
Snyder hosted a forum to promote Michigan to the Chinese tourism market, delivering the message that Michigan's comeback continues and encouraging Chinese travelers to include Michigan in their visits. He also participated in a forum with auto and business reporters, addressing the state's economic surge and Detroit's exit from bankruptcy, saying the plan going forward will lay new groundwork for a dynamic and vibrant city.
"The future of Detroit is bright. The city is already seeing an amazing, positive transformation as new businesses and young talented people are moving there," Snyder said. "With the continued success of Pure Michigan across the United States, we are here to encourage Chinese travelers to visit Michigan and experience its vast offerings as a travel destination firsthand."
Following the media events Snyder and his delegation met with new U.S. Ambassador to China Max Baucus and Wang Jiong, president of global wheel manufacturer CITIC Group. Snyder delivered remarks and witnessed a deal signing ceremony formally celebrating the partnership between Michigan and CITIC Dicastal. The company has chosen Greenville for its first U.S. site as the location of its new aluminum alloy wheel manufacturing plant, a project that will generate a total capital investment of $140 million and create 300 jobs. Birgit Klohs, president and CEO of The Right Place in west Michigan was on hand for the signing.

Source:
