Public Statements
Snyder Leads Mission to China to Promote Travel and Business Investment in State
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Nov. 17, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder will lead a state delegation on a seven-day investment mission to China this week. The team will promote tourism to Michigan and build upon recent successes in attracting new job-creation business investments during meetings with government officials, business leaders and news media in that country.
"New business investment in Michigan from China has surged since we reopened relations there in 2011," Snyder said. "China makes a great opportunity for Pure Michigan tourism with its growing middle class in a population four times larger than ours in the U.S. We see broad export opportunities for Michigan in China and will be working to expand on our recent successes in this realm as well."
While in China, Snyder will host media events in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou in addition to numerous company visits and meetings with government officials. He will promote tourism and Michigan business opportunities in each of the cities and meet with auto industry leaders at the Guangzhou International Auto Show. Snyder also will address Detroit's emergence from bankruptcy with Chinese reporters.
The investment mission, Snyder's fourth to China, will be led by the Michigan Economic Development Corp. (MEDC) concurrent with MEDC's trade mission with nine Michigan companies that are looking to increase business opportunities there.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
The trip marks the Snyder administration's 11th investment mission since taking office in January 2011. Other missions led by Snyder or Lt. Gov. Brian Calley have been to Japan, South Korea, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Brazil, Mexico, Israel and Canada.
Pure Michigan is a brand representing business, talent and tourism initiatives across Michigan. These efforts are driven by the MEDC, which serves as the state's marketing arm and lead advocate for business growth, jobs and opportunity with a focus on helping grow Michigan's economy.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-341569--,00.html
