Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: Southeast Michigan Storm Survivors Granted More Time to Seek Assistance
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Nov. 17, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Michiganders with homes damaged in the August severe storms and flooding will have more time to file for federal assistance after the Federal Emergency Management Agency granted Gov. Rick Snyder's request for an extension.
FEMA extended the application period by 20 days, giving disaster survivors until Dec. 14 to register. The previous deadline was Nov. 24. President Obama in September granted Snyder's request for a federal disaster declaration for Macomb, Oakland and Wayne counties.
"The storms were devastating for so many Michiganders, and there is help available as winter sets in," Snyder said. "Affected individuals may be able to get help recovering and covering damages from the flooding -- from temporary housing and repairs to low-cost loans. But they need to register to be eligible. Don't wait."
Snyder announced the extension at an event Monday at the FEMA Disaster Recovery Center on the Wayne County Community College campus with Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan and representatives from FEMA and the Michigan State Police.
"We are working to make sure every Detroiter affected by the flooding has access to this FEMA aid to assist in their recovery," Duggan said. "We are grateful that our residents now have some additional time to register, but they shouldn't wait. My office will continue its community outreach and we are asking residents to make sure that their friends and loved ones get registered, as well."
More than 115,000 Michiganders who suffered during the August flooding have already registered. FEMA has approved more than $119 million in individual assistance.
People seeking assistance through the federal Small Business Administration also will receive additional time. The SBA application period is automatically extended through Dec. 14, though the SBA will accept applications for another 15 days if the applicant can demonstrate extenuating circumstances.
Federal funding may be available to homeowners and renters for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses. A toll-free hotline -- 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) -- is currently available from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. seven days a week. Affected Michiganders can also apply online at www.disasterassistance.gov. More specific details are available at www.fema.gov/disaster/4195.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-341496--,00.html
