Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: Michigan Taking Aggressive Steps to Prepare for Potential Ebola Case
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Oct. 22, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Michigan is aggressively planning and working with hospitals across the state to protect residents should there be an Ebola virus case in the state, Gov. Rick Snyder said.
Snyder on Wednesday was joined by the state's two designated leads in the Ebola effort --Michigan Department of Community Health Director Nick Lyon and Chief Medical Executive Matthew Davis -- as well as hospital leaders David Seaman, executive vice president of the Michigan Health and Hospital Association and Barbara Medvec, senior vice president and chief nursing officer, for Oakwood Healthcare, Inc. as well as Cabinet officials from the Michigan State Police Emergency Management & Homeland Security Division and the departments of Agriculture & Rural Development, Environmental Quality, Military & Veterans Affairs, and Natural Resources to discuss the state's preparation and coordination efforts.
Across the state, hospitals have confirmed that they are ready to identify and isolate patients with potential Ebola virus infection. MDCH coordinates with hospitals to provide updated information, encourage training, and assess their respective levels of preparedness.
"Our No. 1 priority is protecting Michiganders, their families and the health care workers who care for them. Our state agencies and health care community are working together to respond if a patient who may be at risk for Ebola virus infection is identified in one of our hospitals," Snyder said. "Coordinated care means anticipating potential gaps and addressing them head on, and that is exactly what Michigan is doing."
In the rapidly evolving situation concerning Ebola, state agencies maintain active communication with the public health and medical community to protect residents and ensure adequate training, education and equipment for health care workers.

Source:
