Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Signs Bill Giving Terminally Ill Residents More Treatment Options
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Oct. 17, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation giving Michigan residents with advanced illnesses who have exhausted all other options the opportunity to try experimental treatments under the care of a physician.
"Allowing Michiganders dealing with extremely difficult medical situations to try alternative treatment options could extend or save their lives," Snyder said.
Senate Bill 991 and House Bill 5649, sponsored by state Sen. John Pappageorge and state Rep. Nancy Jenkins, respectively, create the Right to Try Act in Michigan. This act allows those suffering from advanced illnesses in Michigan to receive experimental treatments outside of FDA-approval, if all approved procedures have failed to help the patient. The treatments would only be allowed under their doctor's supervision. Under the law, medical professionals and health care facilities are protected from liability if the experimental treatment does not have a positive result for the patient. The bills are now Public Acts 345 and 346 of 2014.
The governor also signed seven other bills:
HBs 4638 and 4640, sponsored by state Rep. Peter Pettalia, and HB 4639, sponsored by state Rep. Marilyn Lane, streamline recording requirements for mortgage filings, property conveyance, and related affidavits. The legislation makes the recording process uniform statewide. The bills are now PAs 347, 348 and 349.
HB 4867, sponsored by state Rep. Tom Leonard, updates criminal sentencing guidelines to ensure offenders can be convicted for all attempts to engage in predatory conduct, even if the intended target turns out to be an undercover law enforcement officer. Previously, offenders caught by law enforcement in these situations could not receive full punishment since the officer was not actually a vulnerable resident. It is now PA 350.
HB 5107, sponsored by state Rep. Joseph Graves, streamlines the process Michigan property owners need to go through to apply to repair or replace a failed seawall on their property, while maintaining environmental standards. If these changes are approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, they will help speed up the permitting process and ensure residents repairing or replacing a seawall aren't required to go through the same process as if building a new seawall. It is now PA 351.
HB 5785, sponsored by state Rep. John Walsh, restores the ability for local courts to require convicted criminals to pay costs related to their court proceedings. The legislation clarifies the language in the Code of Criminal Procedure, since the Michigan Supreme Court determined in June that the law did not directly state that courts could require reimbursement. These fees are heavily relied upon by local courts. It is now PA 352.
HB 5798, sponsored by state Rep. Hugh Crawford, is a technical fix clarifying existing guidelines within the Michigan Liquor Control Code. The bill clarifies the MLCC and previous changes made to the law, along with updates to the definition of alcoholic liquor and regulation for new alcoholic products. It is now PA 353.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-339631--,00.html
