Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Bills Emphasizing Importance of Safety While Sharing Michigan's Roads
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Oct. 14, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation focused on keeping drivers safe on Michigan roads. Under the legislation, law enforcement will have additional tools to combat drugged driving, and sharing the road with alternate vehicles will be emphasized during drivers training.
"Keeping Michigan motorists and travelers safe is always a priority," Snyder said. "This legislation will help law enforcement crack down on all kinds of impaired driving. I'm proud that we're also making sure new drivers receive the necessary training to understand how to safely share our roads with motorcycles and bicycles. These common-sense bills will help save lives and raise awareness of the need to be alert and responsible when behind the wheel."
House Bill 5385, sponsored by state Rep. Dan Lauwers, replaces references to the traditional breathalyzer test with a preliminary roadside analysis which can be used to detect the presence of alcoholic liquor, a controlled substance, or other intoxicating substance. A person whose ability to drive is affected by a controlled substance or other intoxicating substance will be subject to the same testing requirements and driver's license restrictions as those that are currently in place for driving with an unlawful alcohol content. It is now PA 315.
Senate Bill 863, sponsored by state Sen. Phil Pavlov, creates stronger consequences for drugged driving by giving court officials the authority to decide bail conditions for all driving impairments in the same manner. This legislation allows law enforcement to treat drugged driving the same as drunken driving as it relates to criminal procedures. It is now Public Act 316 of 2014.
HB 5438, sponsored by state Rep. Terry Brown, known as "Nathan's Law" requires all new drivers to be given instruction on how to share the roads with motorcycles and bicycles to prevent accidents. The bill is named after Nathan Bower, who lost his life when his motorcycle was struck by a driver who had recently completed the Graduated Driver's License program. It is now Public Act 317 of 2014.

Source:
