Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Urges Southeast Michigan Flood Victims to Apply for Assistance
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Oct. 6, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

The major federal disaster declaration for severe flooding and storms requested by Gov. Rick Snyder and granted by President Obama on Sept. 25, 2014, offers individual and public assistance to Southeast Michigan, specifically Macomb, Oakland and Wayne counties through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
Victims must register for assistance within 60 days of the federal disaster declaration, making Nov. 24, 2014, the deadline to apply and be eligible for federal disaster relief.
"With winter not far away, I strongly encourage residents in Southeast Michigan harmed by the flooding to apply for potential assistance and arrange for inspections as soon as possible," Snyder said. "This is a key way that affected home and business owners, renters and communities may be able to help recover and cover damages from the flooding -- from temporary housing and repairs to low-cost loans. Do not wait, apply now."
Assistance that may be available for individuals:
Federal funding may be available to homeowners and renters for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals, as well as business owners, recover from the effects of the disaster.
A toll-free hotline -- 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) -- is currently available from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. seven days/week.
Affected Michiganders can also apply online at www.disasterassistance.gov or by visiting one of the 13 recovery support sites that have been set up in the three counties for the week of Oct. 6-10. More specific details available at www.fema.gov/disaster/4195.
When registering and applying, have the following information prepared to help ensure best and fastest possible service:
-Social Security number
-Phone number where can be reached
-Address of damaged property as well as current mailing address
-Brief description of flooding related damages and losses
-Private insurance information
-Direct deposit information to help speed delivery of funds if approved
Small Business Administration assistance
Home and business owners as well as renters may also be eligible for assistance through the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA).
Specifically, homeowners and renters may be eligible to receive up to $40,000 to repair or replace disaster damaged or destroyed personal property while home loans for real estate are allowed up to $200,000.
Additionally, businesses and private non-profit organizations of any size may borrow up to $2 million to repair or replace disaster damaged or destroyed real estate, machinery and equipment, inventory and other business assets.
By registering with FEMA above, eligibility for Small Business Administration assistance will also be checked. Affected residents and businesses can also:
-Apply online using the ELA - Electronic Loan Application - at disasterloan.sba.gov/ela
-Call the SBA Customer Service Center at 800-659-2955 or by emailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov.
Unemployment benefits
Individuals living or working in Macomb, Oakland or Wayne counties and whose employment was lost or interrupted due to the severe storms and flooding on August 11-13, may be eligible for federal Disaster Unemployment Assistance (DUA).
Before applying for the federal DUA benefits, individuals must first apply for regular state unemployment benefits online at the unemployment agency website at www.michigan.gov/uia. This deadline is Nov. 3, 2014.
Assistance that may be available for Michigan municipalities, nonprofits:
Local units of government and nonprofit organizations may be eligible for grant dollars via "Public Assistance" to partially cover some costs from emergency work, debris removal and damage to public buildings and infrastructure like roads and schools.
The Michigan State Police, Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division and FEMA will be holding applicant briefings with communities Tuesday, Oct. 7 - Thursday, Oct. 9 to explain the process for submitting requests for federal reimbursements for disaster repairs as a part of public assistance. These briefings will not address disaster assistance to individuals.
For updates and latest information regarding additional dates, times and locations FEMA teams will be available to provide in-person support, visit www.fema.gov/disaster/4195.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-339093--,00.html
