Public Statements
Healthy Michigan Plan Enrollment Surpasses 400,000
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 25, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

The Michigan Department of Community Health (MDCH) today announced that the Healthy Michigan Plan has reached more than 400,000 enrollees.
"The milestone of 400,000 enrollees reached by the Healthy Michigan Plan means that we are well on track for improving the quality of life for our residents," Snyder said. "By ensuring the health and wellness of all Michiganders we are helping create a healthier, stronger Michigan and driving our state's continued comeback."
Since the April 1 launch, MDCH, the Michigan Departments of Human Services (DHS), and Technology, Management & Budget (DTMB) have monitored and led the implementation efforts for the Healthy Michigan Plan to keep program systems running smoothly.
"Enrolling more than 400,000 people in less than six months shows that Michiganders are ready to make real changes to improve their health and wellness," said MDCH Director Nick Lyon. "Based on these early results, we know that the Healthy Michigan Plan is making a real difference in the lives of Michigan's residents. The continued upward trend in enrollment is great news for the future physical and financial health of our state."
On July 10 of this year, Snyder and MDCH announced that more than 323,000 Michigan residents enrolled in the program, surpassing the entire first-year enrollment goal. The Healthy Michigan Plan is projected to eventually provide care for 477,000 Michiganders.
The plan was signed into law by Snyder in September 2013 to emphasize personal responsibility while reducing uncompensated care that shifts costs onto taxpayers and businesses. Beneficiaries are required to share in the costs, and the plan has incentives for individuals to maintain or improve their health.
Health coverage under the Healthy Michigan Plan includes both federally and state mandated Essential Health Benefits such as ambulatory patient services, emergency services, hospitalization, mental health and substance use disorder services. These benefits encompass behavioral health treatment, prescription drugs, rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices, laboratory services, preventive and wellness services and chronic disease management, pediatric services including oral and vision care, and other medically necessary services as needed.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-338204--,00.html
