Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder's Request for Disaster Declaration Covering Southeast Michigan Approved by President Obama
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 25, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

President Obama has declared a major disaster for the state of Michigan as a result of the historic storm and flash flooding that occurred in Macomb, Oakland and Wayne counties on Aug. 11, Gov. Rick Snyder said.
The president's declaration immediately opens the door for assistance to people, businesses and governments in the affected area.
"In the wake of August's historic storm and flash flooding, Michiganders have been tested and tried as they recover their lives," Snyder said. "We are a resilient state that bands together to help each other when it's needed the most. This presidential declaration will provide assistance as people, businesses and governments recover. I appreciate the federal government's recognition of the severity of this incident."
People who need assistance can immediately apply for grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs to recover from the effects of the flooding. Disaster survivors and business owners must register for assistance online at www.disasterassistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362).
Obama also approved public assistance to help cover some of the costs incurred by state and local governments during emergency response and due to damages to public facilities and infrastructure, such as schools and roads.
The Michigan State Police, Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division and federal partners will schedule applicant briefings in the affected area to help communities understand and start the application process.
Communities statewide are also eligible for the hazard mitigation assistance program to help reduce or eliminate long-term risk to people and property from natural hazards. Mitigation measures can help reduce personal loss, save lives, and lessen the cost of responding to and recovering from future disasters.
"I strongly encourage our communities to seize the opportunity for hazard mitigation assistance to enhance the safety of Michigan's citizens," said Capt. Chris A. Kelenske, commander of the MSP/EMHSD. "With federal aid, our communities can initiate projects to save lives and protect public property and health."
Based on information provided by the MSP/EMHSD, state leaders requested a joint preliminary damage assessment with federal and local leaders to review and validate the most severely damaged homes, businesses, and public facilities across the Southeast Michigan.
The teams conducted their assessments from Aug. 26 to Sept. 9. State officials reviewed the results and determined the extent of damage reached the level for applying for federal help.
Snyder declared a state of disaster on Aug. 13 for Macomb, Oakland and Wayne counties. The declaration makes available all state resources in cooperation with local response and recovery efforts in the disaster area as outlined in the Michigan Emergency Management Plan.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-338244--,00.html
