Public Statements
Governor Signs Order to Better Serve Deaf, Deafblind, and Hard of Hearing
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 24, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed Executive Order 2014-10 renaming the Division on Deaf and Hard of Hearing to the Division on Deaf, Deafblind and Hard of Hearing. The executive order also renames the Advisory Council on Deaf and Hard of Hearing to the Advisory Council on Deaf, Deafblind and Hard of Hearing.
"This update will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the division while helping to ensure we are serving all deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing Michiganders in the best way possible," Snyder said. "I am pleased to be able to make this needed change and recognize the good work of the council and division during Deaf Awareness Week."
The division is housed in the Michigan Department of Civil Rights and works to improve the quality of life for Michigan's deaf, deafblind and hard of hearing residents by ensuring they have access to secure and effective methods of communication. The division also facilitates conversation between the deaf community and the state through the use of interpreters, policy discussions and assistive listening devices.
"I want to thank Gov. Snyder for responding to the advisory council's recommendation and changing its name to better reflect its mission and all the individuals it serves," said Matt Wesaw, director of the Michigan Department of Civil Rights. "The deafblind community deserves to be recognized in the title of the agencies responsible for helping meet their needs, and we're grateful to the governor for making this change a priority."
The Division of Deaf, Deafblind and Hard of Hearing will continue to receive recommendations and guidance from the Advisory Council on Deaf, Deafblind and Hard of Hearing, composed of 13 members appointed by the governor. The advisory council must include seven members who are deaf, deafblind, or hard of hearing.
The order does not affect any programs serving deafblind persons or the state agency responsible for maintaining such programs.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-338158--,00.html
