Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: Expanded College Dual Enrollment Opportunities Helping Students, Families
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 22, 2014
Location: Battle Creek, MI

Community colleges play a vital role in Michigan, offering a quality and cost-effective approach to higher education through dual enrollment and opportunities for people looking for new or better jobs to gain new skills, Gov. Rick Snyder said.
Snyder today accepted an associate of arts degree from Kellogg Community College, where he earned 25 credits as a Lakeview High School student in the 1970s. Snyder at the time was pursuing the first of his three degrees from the University of Michigan. He gained the remaining 37 credits needed for the associate degree through a reverse transfer agreement with the university.
Snyder said he was grateful for the chance to earn college credit while at Lakeview High.
"Taking community college classes while still in high school was a wonderful opportunity for me and my family," Snyder said. "I'm proud to be awarded my associate degree from Kellogg Community College. And I'm more proud that we've expanded opportunities for more Michigan high school students to take college classes, making higher education more affordable and exposing high-achieving students to college-level work."
Snyder in 2012 signed into law an expansion of dual enrollment opportunities for students in public and private schools starting in ninth grade, based on eligibility determined largely through Michigan Education Assessment Program and Michigan Merit Exam scores. Some students could complete up to a year of college work while still in high school.
All 28 Michigan community colleges offer dual enrollment in both general and career-technical courses through classes on college campuses, online and in high schools. In 2012-2013, nearly 20,000 students earned credit in more than 72,000 courses, according to the Michigan Community College Association. Last year, nearly 2,000 high school freshman and sophomores participated.
Snyder said community colleges also play an important role for older students, allowing them to gain new and in-demand skills needed for more and better jobs. Of the nearly 450,000 people enrolled in Michigan community colleges last year, about two-thirds were part-time students.
Snyder was awarded his associate degree by KCC President Dennis Bona and board of trustees Treasurer Matt Davis in a ceremony this morning. KCC and the Michigan Community College Association invited Snyder to use Michigan's reverse transfer process to obtain his degree. Snyder accepted the invitation, completed a graduation application and submitted his University of Michigan transcripts.
"We appreciate the example that Gov. Snyder is setting for all high school and community college students, who can earn credits while in high school and complete an associate degree even after they've transferred to a university," Bona said. "We're also proud that the governor of Michigan is proving something we know to be true already: once a Bruin, always a Bruin."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-337906--,00.html
