Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Seeks Presidential Disaster Declaration to Help Residents, Businesses After Southeast Michigan Flooding
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 17, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today requested President Obama declare a major disaster for the state of Michigan as a result of the flash flooding that occurred in Macomb, Oakland and Wayne counties on Aug. 11. The request comes at the conclusion of in-depth, two-week long assessment of damage to the area.
Snyder requested supplementary federal aid in the form of Individual Assistance and Public Assistance to help eligible residents and state and local goernment entities because of the severity and magnitude of the flooding.
If federal aid is granted, assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs to help people and businesses recover from the effects of the flooding. Public assistance helps cover some of the costs incurred by state and local governments due to damage to public facilities and infrastructures, such as schools and roads.
"So many communities were devastated by the historic flood, and we're looking for every available resource to help them recover," Snyder said. "I was proud of the way Michiganders pulled together to help neighbors and family members. The state was able to provide assistance, and I'm asking the federal government for additional resources as the recovery efforts continue."
Based on information provided by the Michigan State Police, Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division, state leaders requested a joint Preliminary Damage Assessment with federal and local leaders to review and validate the most severely damaged homes, businesses, and public facilities across Southeast Michigan.
The teams conducted their assessments from Aug. 26 to Sept. 9. State officials reviewed the results and determined the extent of damage reached the level for applying for federal help.
Snyder's request will be reviewed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which will advise President Obama whether a disaster declaration should be granted. Ultimately, the president will determine whether to provide federal assistance.
Snyder declared a state of disaster on Aug. 13 for Macomb, Oakland and Wayne counties. The declaration makes available all state resources in cooperation with local response and recovery efforts in the disaster area as outlined in the Michigan Emergency Management Plan.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-337709--,00.html
