Public Statements
Michigan Recognized as National Leader in Digital Government
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 3, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

The state of Michigan earned its third consecutive "A" grade in the Digital States Survey. The biannual survey, conducted by e.Republic's Center for Digital Government evaluates each state government's ability to improve internal processes and better serve citizens.
"Michigan has clearly established itself as an innovator in government information technology," Gov. Rick Snyder said. "We continue to make smart investments in technology, furthering the efficiency and effectiveness of state government and providing better services for our residents."
Michigan was one of only two states to earn A's in three consecutive surveys, also taking top honors in 2010 and "12. The judges noted the state's significant investment to upgrade old technology systems and modernize processes as reasons for the high mark. The commitment to transparency through the state's online dashboard and ability to track project costs and progress were also mentioned as contributing factors.
"Gov. Snyder's commitment to technology and understanding of the role it plays in creating efficient, effective government services is second to none," said David Behen, director of the Department of Technology, Management and Budget. "This recognition of our efforts by a national organization validates the strides we've made to provide world-class service to the state's residents and businesses."
The survey also recognized Michigan's efforts in creating a centralized IT operation more than 10 years ago, which has allowed the state to share resources and lead the way in enterprise technology deployment.
"The successes we've had thus far would not have been possible without strong executive leadership and support from the Legislature, state agencies and our private sector partners," said Behen. "We have laid the groundwork and we will continue to push the envelope to create integrated end-to-end digitalization of government."
The Digital States Survey is the nation's original and only sustained assessment of state use of information and communications technology. For more information about the survey, visit http://www.govtech.com/cdg/digital-states/Digital-States-Survey-2014-Results.html.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-336600--,00.html
