Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Applauds Huntington Bank & Michigan Health Endowment Fund for Flood Donations
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 22, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today applauded Huntington Bank for its $250,000 donation to the American Red Cross and the Michigan Health Endowment Fund's $300,000 commitment to the United Way for Southeastern Michigan to provide relief for Southeast Michigan flood victims.
"Last week's flooding in Southeast Michigan left parts of Wayne, Oakland and Macomb counties devastated and returning to normal will not be easy," Snyder said. "While visiting the affected areas and meeting with residents, it has been encouraging to see neighbors, friends, family, and businesses helping one another during this difficult time."
"A team effort is exactly what we need to help affected Michiganders get back on their feet and today I am encouraged that a local business and organization are stepping up to help out. Huntington Bank and the Michigan Health Endowment Fund's significant contributions will help make a real difference," Snyder said.
"Huntington is delighted to help to those in our community who have suffered damage to their homes as a result of the recent flooding," said Michael Fezzey, Huntington's southeast region president. "We welcome businesses in the community to join us as we seek ways to repair the water damage so that families can resume their normal activities as we head into the fall season."
"A sincere thanks to both of these entities for their generosity and commitment to helping with recovery from this disaster. Hopefully this contribution can inspire more local businesses to help affected residents get back on their feet," Snyder said.
Residents are reminded to continue to report property damage to their local officials by the end of the week so the state can request federal assistance. Details on where to report damage and other information is available at www.michigan.gov/miflood.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-335656--,00.html
