Public Statements
Gov. Snyder Requests Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment for Macomb, Oakland and Wayne Counties
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 22, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today officially requested the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to conduct a joint Preliminary Damage Assessment (PDA) with state and local officials to review damages and response costs caused by last week's torrential rain and flooding in Macomb, Oakland and Wayne counties.
Snyder's request follows completion of initial local damage assessments and is the next key step toward requesting and being eligible for federal assistance.
"By requesting a joint Preliminary Damage Assessment, we are continuing on the path toward the potential request of a presidential disaster declaration for Southeast Michigan," Snyder said. "This assessment is critical to help confirm reported damages and make our case to the federal government for assistance to our affected communities and Michiganders."
A joint PDA estimates the extent, severity and impact of the disaster on individuals, businesses and public facilities. Joint PDA teams comprised of personnel from the FEMA, Michigan State Police, Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division (MSP/EMHSD), local governments, and the U.S. Small Business Administration, will be in affected communities gathering information for several days.
Teams will collect estimated response and recovery costs, including the number of damaged buildings, displaced individuals and any threats to health and safety caused by the torrential rain and flooding. This information will be used in any potential request for federal assistance.
Snyder declared a "state of disaster" on Aug. 13 for Macomb, Oakland and Wayne counties. By declaring a "state of disaster," the state of Michigan will make available all state resources in cooperation with local response and recovery efforts in the disaster area as outlined in the Michigan Emergency Management Plan. Snyder's declaration authorizes the MSP/EMHSD to coordinate state efforts.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-335625--,00.html
