Public Statements
Snyder Leads Effort for Federal Emergency Relief for Southeast Michigan
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 13, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Following the state declaration of disaster for Wayne, Macomb and Oakland Counties, Gov. Rick Snyder today issued this statement regarding his efforts to secure federal emergency relief for Southeast Michigan due to recent flooding:
"In addition to the state declaration of disaster, we are actively pursuing all potential avenues of assistance, including applicable federal relief programs to ensure that all appropriate resources are secured for our hardest hit communities in Southeast Michigan. I specifically want to thank U.S. Reps. Candice Miller, Sandy Levin, John Dingell, and Gary Peters who have reached out to us, offered support and are working with our state team in a bipartisan effort to ensure that all federal, state, and local resources are available to those in need. I am most concerned about the citizens who have sustained substantial damage to their homes and we will target all available means to help with property damage, service disruptions and health and wellness issues during this difficult time.
"In addition, my team and I have had multiple conversations with local officials in the affected areas including Macomb County Executive Mark Hackel, Oakland County Executive Brooks Patterson, Wayne County Executive Bob Ficano, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, and Warren Mayor Jim Fouts. We will continue to work with those local leaders to aid the citizens in their communities.
"Once again, I want to commend and thank the local and regional emergency coordinators, local first responders, the hardworking members of the Michigan State Police, the Michigan Department of Transportation crews, and Michiganders throughout our state for their efforts in supporting those hurt by the flooding. This again proves that our interaction between state and local government systems can work in sync and stand ready to assist in times of great emergency."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-335039--,00.html
