Public Statements
Update on Flooding in Metro Detroit
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 12, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

State resources continue to actively respond to the flooding situation in the
Metro Detroit area, including crews with the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) and troopers with the Michigan State Police (MSP). The State Emergency Operations Center (SEOC) remains activated to coordinate state agency response efforts and remains in contact with local emergency management personnel.
"We are seeing progress with receding water levels and MDOT crews continue to work tirelessly alongside local county road commissions to open roadways for the morning commute," said Gov. Rick Snyder. "The state remains committed to working with local first responders to address any remaining threats to public health and safety."
MDOT crews continue to pump water from flooded roads and clear debris blocking roadways. Crews will be working throughout the night to open roads as soon as possible, but some roads may still remain closed due to flooding or while safety inspections occur. Motorists are reminded to only travel as needed and to obey all traffic restrictions and traffic barriers.
Some roads may still be closed during the morning commute. Motorists should expect longer commute times during the morning rush-hour. Motorists are encouraged to check local media and visit www.michigan.gov/drive for updated road closure information.
Drivers are asked to continue to avoid the area due to impassible roads. Even if the roadway looks safe, the substructure may have eroded and is unsafe to drive or walk on. If you must drive, citizens are encouraged to monitor roads by going to www.michigan.gov/drive and monitoring Twitter at @MDOT_MetroDet.
Stranded vehicles are being towed away from the affected areas as water recedes. Owners of stranded vehicles should contact their local law enforcement agency or the MSP Metro Post at (248) 584-5740, to determine where their vehicle was towed.
Residents and business owners are asked to report any property damage to their local emergency management office. A contact list for local emergency management offices is available at www.michigan.gov/emhsd.
Local Declarations:
-Wayne County declared a local state of emergency and requested a Governor's
declaration on August 12 for financial assistance for impacted homeowners; state
officials are reviewing the request for a Governor's declaration.
-The Cities of Ferndale and Warren declared a local state of emergency and activated
their emergency operations plan. Additional state resources were not requested.
-The local emergency operations centers in the counties of Macomb, Oakland and
Wayne, and the cities of Dearborn Heights, Detroit and Warren are also activated.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/documents/msp/News_Release_No_3_-_Flood_update_8.12.14_465237_7.pdf
