Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Says Healthy Michigan Plan Surpasses First-Year Enrollment Goal of 322,000
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: July 10, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today announced that after less than four months, enrollment for the Healthy Michigan Plan already has surpassed its first-year goal of 322,000.
As of today, July 10, Michigan has 323,022 Michigan residents enrolled in the program. The Healthy Michigan Plan extends health care benefits to a half-million low-income residents. Enrollment for the plan began April 1.
"The Healthy Michigan Plan is providing hard-working Michiganders with the health care coverage they need to lead healthy, productive lives," Snyder said. "Reaching our first-year goal in only 14 weeks shows that we are well on track for improving the quality of life for our residents as Michigan's comeback continues."
Snyder commended the Michigan departments of Community Health (MDCH), Human Services (DHS) and Technology, Management & Budget (DTMB) for their leadership in implementing the Healthy Michigan Plan, and the host of health and human services and business organizations for the help and hard work in spreading the word and helping Michiganders enroll.
"Enrolling more than 322,000 people shows that Michiganders are ready to make positive changes for their health and their communities," said MDCH Director James K. Haveman. "Reaching our goal ahead of schedule is great news for the physical and financial health of our state. Thank you to our business and health care partners for helping us meet the demand in our communities."
MDCH, DHS and DTMB continue to monitor systems, but overall, enrollment continues to go smoothly. Of the 323,022 new enrollees, more than 230,000 already have enrolled in a Medicaid health plan.
Just three weeks ago, the Healthy Michigan Plan reached the milestone of 300,000 enrollees. The plan was signed into law by Snyder in September 2013 to emphasize personal responsibility while reducing uncompensated care that shifts costs onto taxpayers and businesses. Beneficiaries are required to share in the costs, and the plan has incentives for beneficiaries to maintain and improve a healthier lifestyle.
Health coverage under the Healthy Michigan Plan includes both federally and state mandated Essential Health Benefits such as ambulatory patient services, emergency services, hospitalization, mental health and substance use disorder services. These benefits encompass behavioral health treatment, prescription drugs, rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices, laboratory services, preventive and wellness services and chronic disease management, pediatric services including oral and vision care, and other medically necessary services as needed.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-332691--,00.html
