Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Signs Bills Designating Pure Michigan Trail Network
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 26, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation establishing the Pure Michigan Trail Network enhancing Michigan's reputation as the Trail State.
The governor called for approximately 200 miles of additional trails in the Lower and Upper Peninsulas to connect already existing pathways in his energy and environment special message in November 2012.
"The Pure Michigan Trail designations will help showcase the unlimited outdoor recreation activities and many great resources our state has to offer to residents and visitors alike," Snyder said. "We have had great success with the Pure Michigan Tourism campaign and this designation will continue that momentum."
The six-bill package redefines the designation process of special trails in the state and supports the development of a statewide network of multiple use trails and water ways. The bills give the director of the Department of Natural Resources the authority to name trailways as "Pure Michigan Trails," water ways as "Pure Michigan Water Trails" and towns as "Pure Michigan Trail Towns," pending approval from the Michigan Economic Development Corp. They also allow statewide volunteer activities to include trail enhancement programs in support of trail upkeep and maintenance.
"The Pure Michigan Trails designation will help showcase the unlimited outdoor recreation activities and many great resources our state has to offer to residents and visitors alike," Snyder said. "We have had great success with the Pure Michigan Tourism campaign and this designation will continue that momentum."
The bills update existing language in a variety of locations to reflect the new designations. Outdated mentions of "trailways" will be redefined as "trails."
The package includes Senate Bills 873 and 875-877, sponsored by state Sens. John Moolenaar, Dave Hildenbrand, Goeff Hansen, and Tom Casperson, respectively, and House Bills 5553 and 5559, sponsored by state Reps. Ray Franz and Dave Pagel.
The bills are now Public Acts210-215 of 2014, respectively.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-331803--,00.html
