Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder: School Budget Includes Increased Investment in Education at All Levels
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: June 24, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

A solid public education is an essential part of Michigan's continuing comeback, and the state's increased investment in education at all levels reflects a priority to best prepare our children for success, Gov. Rick Snyder said.
Snyder on Tuesday signed HB 5314, also known as the School Omnibus Bill, sponsored by state Rep. Bill Rogers. The bill represents a $1.1 billion increase in state support for K-12 districts from fiscal year 2011.
This is the fourth straight year the state has completed the budget in June, giving school districts the information they need to plan their budgets.
"This is the right budget to move Michigan forward and continue our comeback," said Snyder. "The administration and the Legislature have worked together to develop a budget that funds education and Michigan's other key priorities while maintaining the core principles of fiscal responsibility."
Snyder signed the bill surrounded by -- and with the help of -- students who were part of the national and state champion FIRST Robotics teams. The program pairs students and professionals in science, technology, engineering and math fields to build in-demand skills.
The budget provides significant investment at all academic levels, including:
Early EducationGov. Snyder and the Legislature continue to focus on early childhood education to establish a strong foundation for effective learning that will last throughout a child's life. The budget includes an additional $65 million, ensuring that Michigan is a "no wait" state for eligible families.
K-12 EducationThe budget includes $11.8 billion in state funding for K-12 education. This budget includes $177 million for a per-student funding increase, which equates to a range of $50 to $175 per student, closing the foundation allowance gap and setting the new minimum per student allowance to $7,251.
Higher EducationThe budget also includes a 3 percent increase in operations funding for community colleges and a 5.9 percent increase for state universities. Universities will be required to limit tuition increases to 3.2 percent or less in order to receive their funding increase.
These funds also invest in innovative ways to improve and enhance education, whether it's expanding the learning calendar year, helping teachers enhance their skills, or improving the infrastructure to meet online learning needs.
Senate Majority Leader Randy Richardville said the early approval shows the culture has changed in Lansing.
"We've now balanced the budget four years in a row well ahead of schedule," Richardville said "This is a perfect indicator that our government is running far more efficiently than it has in the past. This dedication to responsible governing has allowed us tackle major issues that have eluded previous legislatures."
House Speaker Jase Bolger said the budget shows lawmakers are responsive to the needs of Michigan residents.
"For the fourth year in a row, we have delivered a budget with the priorities citizens have asked of us - balanced, finished early, and with increased spending on education," Bolger said. "Our economic recovery is continuing, and because of the right investments, each day is brighter for Michigan families."
FIRST Robotics students participating in the bill-signing ceremony included national and state champions and their sponsors. The budget includes $2 million to support the program, which helps inspire and prepare students for careers in STEM fields.
The bill is now Public Act 196 of 2014.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-331686--,00.html
