Public Statements
Six Counties Added to Governor's Disaster Declaration Due to Severe Weather, Flooding
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: May 7, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today directed the Michigan State Police to amend a recent disaster declaration for Newaygo and Osceola counties to include six additional Lower Peninsula counties after severe storms, snowfall and heavy rains caused widespread flooding and wind damage from April 12 to present.
In addition to Newaygo and Osceola counties, the amended disaster declaration adds Isabella, Mecosta, Missaukee, Muskegon, Roscommon and Wexford counties.
"The severe weather and flooding that affected our communities last month has taken a toll on our homes, businesses and public roads and buildings," Snyder said. "We are looking at all options to assist with the recovery and rebuild our communities."
The six counties requested a governor's declaration after determining local resources are insufficient to address the situation and state assistance is required to protect public health, safety and property to lessen or avert the threat of a crisis. The Michigan Emergency Management Act allows the director of the Michigan State Police, or his or her designee, to amend a declaration with the concurrence of the governor.
Lower Peninsula communities have been severely impacted by flooding and wind damage, affecting hundreds of homes, businesses and public facilities and infrastructure. Public health and safety is a concern due to damaged roads and bridges causing increased emergency response times.
Snyder declared on April 17 a "state of disaster" for Newaygo and Osceola counties due to severe weather and widespread flooding, making available state aid and assistance to communities in the disaster area. The governor's declaration authorizes the Michigan State Police, Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division to coordinate state response and recovery efforts.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-327966--,00.html
