Public Statements
Snyder Announces Statewide Recycling Initiative
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 14, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today announced a statewide plan designed to increase residential recycling access statewide. He also announced appointments to a nine-member Michigan Recycling Council to guide the plan's implementation.
In his November 2012 Special Message on Energy and the Environment, Snyder called on the Department of Environmental Quality to assemble a stakeholder group tasked with developing a plan. The governor presented his plan today during a tour of Clean Tech Inc., Michigan's largest plastic bottle recycling plant, near Monroe.
"Michigan has a strong tradition of protecting and enhancing its environment," Snyder said. "But when it comes to recycling, we must do better. Michigan trails other Great Lakes states and much of the nation in residential recycling. It's a complex challenge but one that we can address. This plan puts us on the right path."
Michigan's recycling rate for residential household waste is about 15 percent. The national average is 35 percent. A recent study concluded more than $435 million in recyclable metal, glass, paper and plastics goes from Michigan households to Michigan landfills each year.
"States with healthy recycling programs have found that, in addition to reducing pressure on landfills and helping the environment, recycling creates jobs and opens markets for recovered materials," Snyder said. "We've been throwing away money for decades. Addressing this issue is simply the right thing to do, and I am pleased to announce we are committed to making Michigan a recycling leader."
The 15-point plan focuses on four key areas:
Benchmark and measure progress -- including developing ways to better track Michigan's recycling rate and document the progress of the state's effort.
Public education and technical assistance for communities -- other states report that an informed and supportive public is a key to increasing recycling, along with providing tools for local governments to develop local programs.
Provide convenient access -- successful recycling programs feature convenient access at the local level.
Develop markets -- stimulation of market opportunities for recycled products will be addressed with grants and other economic incentives.
The DEQ drafted the plan in cooperation with 45 key stakeholders including recyclers, landfill operators, manufacturers, waste haulers, bottlers, grocery store operators and others.
"This plan represents a real breakthrough for the myriad interested stakeholders around recycling," said Michigan DEQ Director Dan Wyant. "What we celebrate today is their leadership, our partnership and the sustained commitment from everyone to keep "Pure Michigan' pure in the years ahead."
The effort is supported by a $1 million appropriation in the governor's recommended fiscal year 2015 budget, along with $500,000 in DEQ pollution prevention grants that will be committed to support local recycling programs over the next two years.
"The Michigan Recycling Coalition is pleased with the governor's leadership on this issue," said Kerrin O'Brien, executive director of the Michigan Recycling Coalition. "This initiative recognizes that we can and should do more to fully achieve the economic and environmental rewards that a comprehensive residential recycling program will bring to Michigan."
To learn more about residential recycling opportunities in Michigan or see Michigan's plan, go to www.Michigan.gov/MIrecycles .

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-326217--,00.html
