Public Statements
Healthy Michigan Open Enrollment to Begin April 1
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 20, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder and the Michigan Department of Community Health (MDCH) today announced that the state's Healthy Michigan Plan is prepared to begin accepting applications on April 1, 2014, ultimately providing healthcare coverage to nearly half a million more Michigan residents.
"This is a significant step in our ongoing efforts to ensure the health and wellbeing of all Michiganders," Snyder said. "A healthier Michigan is an important part of our state's continued comeback. It will help improve health and quality of life, save money for taxpayers and job providers and boost our economy. I appreciate the support of our legislative partners in this initiative and the tremendous work of our departments of Community Health, Human Services and Technology, Management and Budget to help ensure all systems are go and there's a smooth enrollment process. I encourage eligible residents to mark the date and go online, call or visit a local DHS office on or after April 1."
The Healthy Michigan Plan was signed into law by the governor on Sept. 16, 2013. Since then, MDCH staff has worked closely with the federal government and Michigan partners to get the necessary information technology, federal approval and program operations in place. Extensive IT testing and progress has been made to assure the necessary system requirements are ready for enrollment. Beginning April 1, Michigan residents will be able to apply for the Healthy Michigan Plan online, by phone, or in person at their local Michigan Department of Human Services (DHS) office to quickly and easily determine if they are eligible.
In the first year, the Healthy Michigan Plan is anticipated to cover 320,000 Michiganders, eventually providing care for 470,000. The plan emphasizes personal responsibility and beneficiaries will be required to share in the costs. There also will be incentives for individuals to take responsibility for their lifestyle choices and to maintain or improve their health.
Applicants for the Healthy Michigan Plan must be between the ages of 19-64, not currently eligible for Medicaid, not eligible for or enrolled in Medicare, and earning up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level (approximately $16,000 for single person and $33,000 for a family of four).
Health coverage under the Healthy Michigan Plan includes both federally and state mandated Essential Health Benefits such as ambulatory patient services, emergency services, hospitalization, mental health and substance use disorder services, including behavioral health treatment, prescription drugs, rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices, laboratory services, preventive and wellness services and chronic disease management, pediatric services including oral and vision care, and other medically necessary services as needed.
In the process of operationalizing the Healthy Michigan Plan, MDCH received approval from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) on Dec. 30, 2013. This approval allowed MDCH to transition roughly 60,000 individuals from the Medicaid Adult Benefits Waiver (ABW) program into the new Healthy Michigan Plan, with coverage beginning April 1, 2014.
"Throughout the process of making the Healthy Michigan Plan a reality, our primary concern has been ensuring our systems are fully prepared for Michigan residents as they apply and once they are enrolled," said James K. Haveman, Director of the MDCH. "As the Healthy Michigan Plan includes a strong personal responsibility focus, we are encouraged by the promising results we've seen so far with the ABW population and look forward to improving the health of all residents eligible for the Healthy Michigan Plan."
For more information about the progress of the Healthy Michigan Plan or more details regarding enrollment, visit www.michigan.gov/healthymichiganplan. Stay tuned for specific enrollment site and hotline number details.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-324110--,00.html
