Public Statements
Governor Issues Statement on Budget Supplemental
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 12, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today said that a $330 million budget supplemental approved by the Legislature that, among other things, includes up to $215 million for priority road projects and winter road maintenance, is a positive step toward improving the state's roads and that he is looking forward to a comprehensive solution to our transportation needs.
"I appreciate the Legislature's working together to approve this budget supplemental that provides much needed funding to help fix Michigan's deteriorating roads. This has been a significantly harsh winter on many fronts, and particularly devastating in terms of potholes. While this funding will be of great benefit in the short-term, Michigan still very much needs a comprehensive long-term solution to fix our state's aging roads and bridges. This remains a priority and I am confident that we can work together on a solution.
"I'm also thankful the supplemental includes funding for other priorities, including ensuring that more than 52,000 residents will be able to keep receiving mental health services. Michigan has made great strides over the past three years to increase support for residents who have mental health issues and this funding will make sure that progress continues. Also, funding included in the supplemental will, importantly, provide assistance for Michiganders in need who have been dealing with home heating issues this winter. Additionally, I am pleased the Office for New Americans has received legislative support as we work to attract more immigrants with advanced academic degrees or entrepreneurial aspirations to help create more and better jobs in our state.
"I thank the House and Senate for working together to craft this supplemental, and look forward to continuing that positive relationship as we work to approve the state's next budget."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-323610--,00.html
