Public Statements
Governor Issues Executive Order to Improve Customer Service
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 10, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today issued Executive Order 2014-6 making several changes to enhance state government's effectiveness and provide better customer service.
"Customer service is a high priority and no matter how large or how minor, we are constantly looking for ways to improve customer service to Michiganders," Snyder said. "This order provides numerous effective changes to the management and oversight of state government, which will improve customer service."
The executive order makes the following changes:
Emergency Medical Services
The order transfers all authority and responsibility of the regulation of Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT) from the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs (LARA) to the Department of Community Health (DCH). The department already regulates other emergency medical services in the state.
Michigan Compensation Appellate Commission
The order makes a small technical change to the number of required members on the commission. Whereas previously the commission was required to have nine members, the order now requires up to nine members. The change gives LARA and the commission more flexibility to better match its needs with fluctuating caseloads.
Michigan Citizen-Community Emergency Response Coordinating Council
The order makes a minor change to the membership requirements of the Michigan Citizen-Community Emergency Response Coordinating Council. The state fire marshal may now designate a person to serve as his or her representative on the council. Previously the marshal was the only state agency member not permitted to do so.
Grape and Wine Industry Council
The order recreates the Grape and Wine Industry Council to update the terms of appointment of members so they are staggered, which will provide more continuity on the council.
The council will consist of 12 members, including three winemakers; a wine grape grower; the chief executive officer of the Michigan Economic Development Corp., or a designee; the director of the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development or a designee who will act as chair; a staff person from Michigan State University as appointed by the dean of the school's College of Agriculture and Natural Resources; the chair of the Liquor Control Commission or a designee; a person who operates a retail food establishment that holds a specially designated merchant license and sells Michigan wine or a person who operates a restaurant that holds a Class C license and serves Michigan wines; a beer and wine wholesaler marketing Michigan wine; and two members of the public.
Initial appointments are effective from today until Feb. 1, 2016, except for the three winemakers, who will serve initial appointments until Feb. 1, 2017. All appointments for terms beginning after Jan. 1, 2016, will be for three years, and members cannot serve more than two consecutive terms.
P-20 Longitudinal Data System Advisory Council
Previously, the governor was responsible for appointing a number of members to the council, and the order transfers that authority to the state budget director. The role and responsibilities of the council remain unchanged.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-323431--,00.html
