Public Statements
Snyder Extends Energy Emergency to March 1
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Feb. 11, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today issued Executive Order 2014-4, extending a State of Energy Emergency in Michigan until March 1. The energy emergency continues due to a shortage of propane in the state.
The executive order extends hours of service waivers for those who deliver heating oil and propane, enabling these individuals to exceed the number of hours and consecutive days in which they can work. The previous order was to expire this evening at 11:59 p.m. Last week, Snyder announced further steps the state is taking to help Michiganders who have been affected by the shortage, including additional heating and financial assistance, and efforts to increase supply.
"We understand that families and businesses continue to be impacted by this shortage, and we're committed to providing all possible assistance," Snyder said. "This latest step will help to ensure that propane deliveries continue as we do our best to ease the burden on consumers through other initiatives such as heating and financial assistance."
The propane shortage and severe winter weather have caused delivery delays and unusually high prices for customers in the state who rely on heating oil and propane. Efforts by the governor's administration have helped to increase propane supply. More than a million gallons of propane have been delivered via rail to storage facilities in Marysville over the past week and more is expected to continue arriving. Additionally, supplies in the Upper Peninsula have also improved since a facility in Rapid River went back online in January, and unprecedented amounts of propane are now being delivered to facilities in Kincheloe.
Representatives of several state agencies were in the Upper Peninsula on Monday, listening to and sharing information with consumers, propane providers and legislators.
However, the shortage is still making an impact, and residents in need of heating assistance are asked to call 211 or visit michigan.gov/heatingassistance for help. The Michigan Veterans Trust Fund also provides help for combat veterans who are in need of heating assistance. They should visit the website or call 517-284-5299 for help. Propane dealers and distributors who are interested in the Michigan Economic Development Corp.'s loan assistance program should call 1-888-522-0103 or visit michiganbusiness.org. For more information about being prepared before, during and after an emergency or disaster, visit michigan.gov/beprepared.
Motor carriers or drivers who are currently subject to an out-of-service order, in which operations are prohibited, are not eligible for the exemption and suspension until the out-of-service order expires or the conditions for rescission have been satisfied. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the Michigan State Police require that drivers for motor carriers operating under the Declaration of Energy Emergency must have a copy of the declaration in their possession.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-321807--,00.html
