Public Statements
Snyder's Budget Proposal Enhances Investment in Core Areas to Continue Michigan's Comeback
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Feb. 5, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder's proposed fiscal year 2015 budget -- the product of three consecutive years of strict fiscal discipline -- continues Michigan's comeback by significantly investing in core priorities that will drive job creation, student success in the classroom, stronger communities, increased public health and safety, and tax relief for low- to middle-income families.
The governor today also offered a 2016 projected budget, continuing his practice of ensuring that Michigan maintains a long-range planning focus with an emphasis on fiscal responsibility.
"This is more than just a budget," Snyder said. "It's the story of Michigan's comeback. These investments would not be possible without the strong foundation of fiscal responsibility that we have laid, as well as the job-creating policies that are helping our economy to grow. We're proud to offer for consideration this strategic investment plan that reflects Michigan's values and priorities. We appreciate the Legislature's role in Michigan's success and look forward to once again finalizing the budget with our legislative partners well in advance of the new fiscal year."
"This is a taxpayer's budget," Calley said. "Many of the investments we're making in areas such as transportation, public safety and human services will save money in the long run. Our growing economy also allows us to give many Michiganders significant tax relief through our initiative to enhance the Homestead Property Tax Credit. This is a responsible, forward-looking budget that recognizes the needs of taxpayers and continues Michigan's exciting momentum."
The tax relief plan expands the Homestead Property Tax credit to provide nearly $103 million of additional property tax relief, primarily to low- and middle-income working families, seniors and residents with disabilities. It is expected to increase tax refunds for 1.3 million taxpayers.
"Michigan is operating from a very strong budget position," Nixon said. "We have taken action to address our long-term liabilities and we are saving for the future by building reserves in our Rainy Day Fund. These are recognized best practices when it comes to fiscal responsibility and the Wall Street rating agencies have taken note of the good things that are happening here and this all benefits Michiganders."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-321371--,00.html
