Public Statements
Gov. Snyder: Detroit Institute of Arts, W.K. Kellogg Foundation Applauded for Stepping Up to Help City
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 29, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder issued the following statement about the plan offered today by Detroit Institute of Arts and Tuesday's financial pledge from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation:
"There are many parties coming together, focused on the shared -- and essential -- goal of restoring Detroit.
"I applaud Detroit Institute of Arts leaders for showing commitment and leadership by coming to the table to help Detroiters and our state as a whole. The DIA's plan to raise $100 million to support these efforts reflects its dedication to the city and the people the museum serves.
"The museum joins Michigan's generous philanthropic community, which already has made a major commitment to this effort, and I'm gratified that the W.K. Kellogg Foundation of Battle Creek pledged their strong support too. With the Kellogg Foundation's $40 million contribution, our philanthropic community has so far committed about $370 million toward preserving pensions and protecting the DIA's treasures.
"My administration also is committed to playing a major role. We're working with our partners in the Legislature on a plan to allocate up to $350 million over the next 20 years to protect and reduce the impact on pensioners.
"This collaboration and the proposed $820 million fund shows our city and state coming together to find solutions that will allow Detroit to regain its financial footing, help Detroiters and Michiganders, ultimately save taxpayers millions of dollars, and build a sustainable, long-term path for growth that will help fuel the city, region and state.
"I'm hopeful that the commitments from the DIA and the foundations encourage the parties to the bankruptcy continue their efforts in the mediation sessions to reach agreements.
"We know that the eyes of the nation, if not the world, are on us as we work to ensure Detroit's turnaround and reverse a problem that was 60 years in the making. I believe the unprecedented support we are seeing from our partners shows all those eyes that Michiganders -- and Detroiters in particular -- are a proud and resilient people who can work together to find solutions in difficult times."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-320786--,00.html
