Public Statements
Snyder Encourages Focus on Fiscal, Tax, Immigration, Cultural Reforms in State of Union
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 28, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder issued the following statement in advance of President Barack Obama's State of the Union address:
"The president has a prime opportunity to set the stage for action on key issues of genuine concern to American families. First and foremost is our economic future. Washington must come to grips with fiscal reality. The ongoing failure to balance our national budget, coupled with the staggering long-term debt, continues to stand in the way of America's true economic potential. Americans also continue to wait for long overdue reform to our federal tax code that focuses on the principles of being simple, fair and efficient. Tackling these issues will lead to more and better jobs for workers and enhanced opportunities for our children as they prepare for this global economy.
"Washington should focus on simple addition, not complex subtraction or long division. Let's grow the economy, and grow personal incomes, especially for those most vulnerable and struggling. Economic growth is the best driver of economic equality. One effective way to create jobs is through common-sense immigration reform. There's no doubt that highly skilled, legal immigrants with advanced academic degrees or entrepreneurial talents create jobs for Americans.
"Americans know what needs to be done. Unfortunately, the broken political culture in Washington remains a barrier to meaningful progress on these critical reforms. It doesn't have to be that way. Michigan is the comeback state because we're tackling the tough issues. Michiganders are working together with relentless positive action to achieve great things. There's no reason that can't happen in Washington.
"I'm pleased that Lieutenant Governor Calley will be representing our state and fellow Michiganders Mary Barra of General Motors and Andra Rush of Rush Trucking and Detroit Manufacturing Systems will be honored guests."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-320577--,00.html
