Public Statements
Letter to Barack Obama, President of the United States - Urging Action on Propane Shortage
Letter
By: Scott Walker John Kasich Mark Dayton Mike Pence Rick Snyder Sam Brownback Terry Branstad
Date: Jan. 27, 2014
Location: Unknown

The Honorable Barack Obama
President of the United States
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
Washington, DC 20500
Dear President Obama:
We write to express our concern regarding the shortage of propane fuel across Iowa, the entire Midwest, and expanding to other parts of the United States. With the lack of supply and increased demand due to recent cold weather, propane prices have drastically increased. This has negatively impacted Iowa families, businesses, and agricultural producers across the State of Iowa. Prices in some Midwest locations have now exceeded $5 per gallon. Such prices are unsustainable for families, farmers, and businesses. Iowa, like many states across the nation, have taken actions to address the situation and now your Administration's leadership is needed to ensure that the necessary propane fuel is available for our fellow citizens to heat their homes, livestock producers to warm their animals, and businesses to fuel their operations.
We urge the U.S. Department of Transportation to expand the exemption to the hours-of-service regulations to ease the movement of propane fuel to customers in states facing shortages. We would also welcome actions by the U.S. Department of Energy to reduce regulatory barriers to expedite the shipments of propane via all modes of transportation, including rail and pipeline. In addition, we urge you and your Administration to examine current propane market forces and consider exercising your authority outlined in 42 U.S.C. ยง 6212 to ensure there is a sufficient domestic supply. We are closely monitoring needs of communities throughout the state. If emergency deliveries of propane are deemed necessary, we would ask for your Administration's help in addressing such an emergency situation through close coordination and adequate Federal resources. Further, if propane prices do not return to sustainable levels in the very near future, it will be necessary to explore the adequacy of current resource allocations in Federal programs such as the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and the Rural Energy for America (REAP) programs. Finally, we would echo requests for the Federal Trade Commission to remain vigilant in its oversight responsibility to prevent anti-competitive behavior or illegal manipulation.


Source:
