Public Statements
Governor Declares Energy Emergency Due to Temporary Heating Oil and Propane Shortage
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 10, 2014
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today issued Executive Order 2014-1, declaring a State of Energy Emergency in Michigan due to temporary shortages of heating oil and propane.
This energy emergency is a new, separate declaration from the one the governor made in December.
"The extreme cold and hazardous winter weather of the past week continues to impact our communities," Snyder said. "This executive order will ensure there is enough heating oil and propane in the coming days and weeks to protect the health, safety and welfare of Michigan residents and visitors."
The heating oil and propane shortage was caused by increased demand due to subzero temperatures and uncharacteristically heavy snowfall that delayed deliveries of heating oil and propane. Transporters have been encountering frequent equipment failure and hazardous road conditions, resulting in longer driving times and working hours and an increased effort to deliver individual loads.
The executive order suspends state and federal regulations relating to hours-of-service for motor carriers and drivers transporting heating oil and propane within Michigan, enabling these individuals to exceed the number of hours and consecutive days in which they can operate a commercial motor vehicle.
Motor carriers or drivers currently subject to an out-of-service order, in which operations are prohibited, are not eligible for the exemption and suspension until the out-of-service order expires or the conditions for rescission have been satisfied. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the Michigan State Police require that drivers for motor carriers operating under the Declaration of Energy Emergency must have a copy of the declaration in their possession. It is available at www.michigan.gov/snyder.
EO 2014-1 is effective immediately and remains in effect until it is rescinded or until 11:59 p.m. Jan. 31, 2014, whichever first occurs.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-319321--,00.html
