Public Statements
Issue Position: Talent and Jobs
Issue Position
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Rick Snyder believes that Michigan must better align the talent of its people with the needs of job providers to ensure success in the new economy.
The Governor's Special Message to the Legislature on Talent Development offers strategies to reinvent the way in which we prepare children for fulfilling careers, reshape how Michiganders look for work and redesign the way in which employers obtain the skills they need. "Tomorrow's opportunities cannot be realized with yesterday's skills," Snyder said. "It's time to develop the next generation of talent. Today's young employees will have multiple careers in their lifetimes. The skills they attain must be marketable and transferrable. We need to align the aptitudes and career passions of job seekers with the current and evolving needs of employers."
The launch of an online tool will help ensure the state's economic development and talent enhancement are occurring in tandem. Pure Michigan Talent Connect is a talent marketplace available at www.MiTalent.org. It eliminates the need for the multiple websites that now exist, many of which are duplicative or incomplete.
The site features tools that job creators and job seekers need to make better-informed decisions. Users are able to assess their skills, evaluate the return on investment for an education or training program, browse careers and connect with mentors. The site is being launched in phases for a June 2012 completion.
Other initiatives include promoting mentorship by asking the Michigan Jaycees to continue its leadership through a collaboration with the state Community Service Commission's Mentor Michigan program; redesigning Michigan's Jobs, Education and Training (JET) program to include meaningful performance measures; modernizing the Michigan Works! program; urging greater flexibility in the federal Work Investment Act; creating a Governor's Talent Investment Board that will bring citizen involvement and oversight to Michigan's talent enhancement effort; asking legislative partners to enact a work-sharing law that lets Michigan retain more of its talent; and asking lawmakers to allow the Unemployment Insurance Agency to let displaced Michiganders pursue entrepreneurship through self-employment assistance.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-61409_61414---,00.html
