Public Statements
Governor Snyder Sets Goals for "No Regrets" Energy Future by 2025
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Dec. 19, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Governor Rick Snyder today laid out his vision for a "no regrets" energy future by 2025, calling for an emphasis on eliminating energy waste, and replacing coal with newer, cleaner technologies -- natural gas and renewables.
"Michigan needs an energy policy that ensures we can be adaptable, have energy that is reliable and affordable, and protect our environment," Snyder said. "We should set a reasonable, achievable, and efficient range of goals for 2025."
Snyder laid out several key goals for the state's energy policy.
Adaptability. As part of the foundation of adaptability, eliminate energy waste and reduce coal and replace it with newer, cleaner technologies -- natural gas and renewables.
Reliability. Michigan should become a leader in reliability in both reducing the average number of outages and their length. Additionally, ensure that our state never experiences massive outages due to lack of supply.
Affordability. In the area of affordability, Michigan residential customers should spend less on their combined energy bills (electric and natural gas) than the national average. In addition, Michigan needs to ensure that energy-intensive industries can choose Michigan for job and investment decisions to better compete.
Protection of the Environment. Michigan's energy generation needs to be part of a healthier future, reducing mercury emissions, pollution that creates acid rain, and particles in the air for the health of Michigan. Finally, Snyder called for an increase in the renewable portfolio based on relative cost, reliability and environmental benefits.
The Governor's recommendations come after his Special Message on Energy and the Environment in November last year and after the submission last month of four energy reports by MPSC Chairman John D. Quackenbush and Michigan Energy Office Director Steve Bakkal.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-318423--,00.html
