Public Statements
Snyder Announces New IT Career Training Program For Veterans
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Nov. 15, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today announced a new public-private partnership that will provide information and technology training and certification to Michigan veterans.
"Military service members are among the most highly trained talent in the country, but they often struggle to transfer their military skills into civilian job qualifications and miss great opportunities to secure rewarding careers," Snyder said. "This program will provide vets who worked in IT fields with the fast-track training they need to successfully transition into civilian employment."
The Michigan Shifting Careers: IT Networking Certifications Program for Military Servicemembers pilot program is offered by the Workforce Development Agency -- Veterans' Services Division in partnership with New Horizons, Cisco, Futures, Inc., Pearson VUE, Davenport University, and Capella University. The program will provide, at no cost to veterans, ANSI-accredited Cisco training and preparation leading to the Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA®) certification to veterans with IT skills, as well as virtual access to Cisco Learning Labs.
"Thousands of U.S. military personnel have built technical, leadership and other valuable skills during their time of service," said Jeanne Beliveau Dunn, vice president and general manager, Learning@Cisco. "Despite risking life and limb, finding employment when they return stateside is a battle that veterans should not have to fight alone. This program will leverage and validate the unique skills, experience, and qualifications that veterans hold by fast-tracking veterans to obtain the industry-recognized Cisco CCNA certification, and pairing them with high-demand IT jobs. Cisco is pleased to stand side-by-side with the state of Michigan, New Horizons, Futures, Inc and our many partners to offer a brighter future for our veterans."
As veterans complete the training, pass the exams and earn their certifications, an extensive partner and employer network will help them secure full-time employment. Participants will also have the option of using their credit toward a two- or four-year degree program at Davenport University or Capella University.

Source:
