Public Statements
Snyder Signs Tax Relief Legislation for Families of Disabled Veterans
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder Dave Hildenbrand
Date: Nov. 12, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation that extends the current homestead property tax exemption for disabled military veterans to a veteran's spouse if the veteran passes away before the tax break is granted.
The existing property tax exemption eases the cost of home ownership for military veterans who were honorably discharged and are disabled and unable to work.
"Michigan's military veterans, particularly those who are disabled, have sacrificed more for us than we can ever repay," Snyder said. "They have served to protect our way of life and our freedom. This property tax break will be available to their families will help them afford homes and stay right here in Michigan."
Senate Bill 352, sponsored by state Sen. Dave Hildenbrand, is now Public Act 161 of 2013. It also requires that the spouse would need to remain unmarried for the exemption to continue.
"Michigan's disabled veterans have served our state and nation valiantly and selflessly," Hildenbrand said. "We owe our freedom to these individuals and should provide the tax relief necessary for them to be successful homeowners. This legislation improves the current property tax exemption by streamlining the process and guaranteeing this benefit for these veterans and their spouses."
Michigan is home to nearly 700,000 veterans and state agencies are working to help ease their transition from military to civilian life and to provide veterans access to the critical resources they need to succeed now that they have come back home.
The governor created the Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency in January to better connect veterans to services and benefits and to coordinate the efforts of state agencies.
On Monday, Snyder participated in a ribbon-cutting ceremony for the second phase of the Silver Star Apartment complex on the campus of the Battle Creek Veterans Affairs Medical Center. The 101-unit supportive housing apartment community will serve homeless veterans.
The governor also is hosting the Governor's Summit on Veterans Talent on Wednesday. That event, in Taylor, will help connect job providers with talented and skilled veterans.
The governor also signed two unrelated bills.
SB 372, sponsored by state Sen. Bruce Caswell, excludes agricultural property from sales studies if, upon a transfer of ownership, an affidavit attesting that the property would remain agricultural had not been filed. It is PA 162.
House Bill 4937, sponsored by state Rep. Aric Nesbit, does away with a requirement where gas and electric utility companies had to transfer funds from annual uncollectibles allowance recovery funds to the Michigan Clean Air Fund. The bill also transfers the government fund to the Michigan Public Service Commission and the commission will reimburse the remaining balance of the fund to companies that paid into the fund. It is now PA 163.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-316325--,00.html
