Public Statements
Healthy Michigan Plan Waiver Submitted
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Nov. 8, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Michigan Department of Community Health (MDCH) today submitted the waiver for approval of the Healthy Michigan Plan to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). Gov. Rick Snyder signed the plan into law on Sept. 16, which will make health care benefits available to 477,000 low-income Michigan residents under 133 percent of the Federal Poverty Level in early spring 2014.
"As Michigan continues its comeback, today we are another step closer to having a healthier, more productive workforce," Snyder said. "The Healthy Michigan Plan will ensure access to affordable health care, save money for the state's taxpayers and job providers, help control medical costs, improve the state's business climate, and boost our economy."
MDCH has been in contact with CMS throughout the process of drafting the plan and the waiver. Once approval is received by CMS, MDCH will begin to establish the enrollment process for those who will become eligible.
"The submission of the Healthy Michigan Plan waiver is another significant step in the progress towards providing coverage to nearly half-million hard-working, low-income adults," said MDCH Director James K. Haveman. "Once we receive approval from CMS, we are committed to working swiftly on ensuring the plan is ready for implementation around April 2014."
The Healthy Michigan Plan will encourage healthy behaviors and personal responsibility, help low-income Michigan residents access affordable health coverage, and reduce uncompensated care that shifts costs onto businesses and taxpayers. To be eligible to apply for the Healthy Michigan Plan you must be between the ages of 19-64, not currently eligible for Medicaid, not eligible for or enrolled in Medicare, and earning up to 133 percent of the Federal Poverty Level (approximately $15,000 for single person and $34,000 for a family of four).
The Healthy Michigan Plan will provide a combination of federal and state mandated Essential Health Benefits such as ambulatory patient services, emergency services, hospitalization, mental health and substance use disorder services, including behavioral health treatment, prescription drugs, rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices, laboratory services, preventive and wellness services and chronic disease management, oral and vision care, and other medically necessary services as needed.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-316197--,00.html
