Public Statements
Snyder Commends Senate for Passage of Healthy Michigan Plan
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 27, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder issued the following statement commending the state Senate for its action on House Bill 4714, the Healthy Michigan plan:
"The Senate should be commended for approving the Healthy Michigan plan, which will make a difference in the lives of nearly half-a-million Michiganders along with saving tax dollars and boosting our economy.
"Healthy Michigan reflects the values and needs of Michigan and its people. It will provide health care coverage to 470,000 Michiganders, most working but earning less than $15,000 a year.
"The Healthy Michigan plan emphasizes personal responsibility. Those covered by the plan will be required to share in the costs through premiums. There also will be incentives for them to take responsibility for their lifestyle choices and to maintain or improve their health.
"Healthy Michigan will make our state healthier and stronger. It also will save money for the state's taxpayers and job providers, help control medical costs, improve the state's business climate, and boost our economy. All of these are crucial to continue Michigan's comeback.
"I want to thank Majority Leader Randy Richardville and Sens. Roger Kahn and Gretchen Whitmer for their leadership on this issue. I also want to thank members of the Senate workgroup from both parties who helped improve the bill.
"Members of the House, including Speaker Jase Bolger, Minority Leader Tim Greimel, and Reps. Mike Shirkey, Matt Lori and Al Pscholka, also should be commended for continuing to work on this legislation.
"This issue has prompted strong opinions and the debate has been intense at times. Vigorous discussions are a natural part of our form of government and I respect everyone who has been involved in this process and appreciate the positions and views that they put forward. That vigorous discussion has resulted in an improved Healthy Michigan plan that will better serve the state and its people.
"The House approved a version of this bill earlier this year on a strong bipartisan vote. I look forward to the representatives considering the Senate's changes as soon as possible and presenting the bill for my signature."

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-311455--,00.html
