Public Statements
Regional Initiative to Coordinate Service Delivery, Grow Economy Through Local Collaboration
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Aug. 8, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder and advocates of regional collaboration are aligning Michigan's statewide service delivery structure, which will create greater efficiencies and effectiveness, and strengthen local economies by providing communities with more opportunities to control their economic futures.
The effort is part of the Regional Prosperity Initiative, a voluntary, competitive grant process for existing state-designated planning regions and Metropolitan Planning Organizations. The initiative, unveiled in Snyder's fiscal year 2014 budget, empowers local and regional partners to develop a consensus vision and implementation plan for economic success.
Under the initiative, the current system of delivering state services is being revamped by state departments, which was among the recommendations of a broad-based stakeholder group that came together to discuss how Michigan can support local partners by eliminating overlapping goals and competing priorities. For example, more than 80 state services now are provided in a regional fashion with almost none of the regions sharing common boundaries.
"We're investing in the success of our regions and their local communities," Snyder said. "This initiative does so in ways that are meaningful to the people who live, work and play there every day. We recognize that local partners -- not Lansing -- are best equipped to create strong regional strategies for prosperity. By supporting our local partners and their visions for vibrant economies, we can help put them in the best positions for long-term success. I appreciate the outstanding work of our local and regional partners from across the state who volunteered their time to help move Michigan forward."
The absence of a common economic vision and coordination of services for our regional economies creates both redundancies and gaps. This causes confusion for local, state, federal, private and nonprofit partners seeking to support a region.

Source:
