Public Statements
Snyder Signs Bill to Strengthen Penalties for Elder Abuse
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: May 21, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed legislation that further protects Michigan's vulnerable adults by strengthening the ability of judges to impose stricter sentences for criminals who embezzle from seniors or the mentally ill.

"This is a good bill that will help in our efforts to combat the abuse of vulnerable citizens in Michigan," Snyder said.

House Bill 4264, sponsored by state Rep. Tom Leonard, allows judges to impose sentences consecutively on defendants convicted of multiple offenses under the Vulnerable Adult Embezzlement Statute. The measure brings the vulnerable adult embezzlement statute up to date with the state's general embezzlement statutes.

In 2012, Snyder signed a 10-bill package to protect Michigan's senior citizens and vulnerable adults. The measures encourage the reporting of elder abuse and the strengthening of penalties for those who are convicted.

HB 4264 is now Public Act 34 of 2013.

In addition, the governor signed the following two bills:

Senate Bill 97, sponsored by state Sen. John Proos, revises current law to help stem the abuse of an exemption regarding the safety of child passengers. Current law lets drivers penalized for operating a vehicle with a child passenger who is not properly secured in a child safety seat to have the fine automatically revoked if the driver later shows proof of having a safety seat. The imposition of the penalty is now left to a judge's discretion. SB 97 is now PA 35.

HB 4254, sponsored by state Rep. John Walsh, bans the use of a hand-held mobile telephone to talk while operating a commercial motor vehicle or school bus. It also allows a former horse-drawn carriage that has been modified and fitted with an electric motor to operate as a taxi. It is now PA 36.

Visit michiganlegislature.org for more information.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-303817--,00.html
