Public Statements
Executive Order Promotes Administrative Efficiency, Transfers Michigan Land Bank, State Building Authority
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: May 20, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today issued Executive Order 2013-8, which transfers the Michigan Land Bank Fast Track Authority (MLB) from the Michigan Strategic Fund to the Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSHDA). Both Entities are currently housed in Michigan Strategic Fund.

"This strategic reorganization allows MSHDA to strengthen its partnership with the Michigan Land Bank as the agencies continue to work jointly on redevelopment initiatives to improve our communities," Snyder said. "It is important to make the most efficient use of our resources as we continue to ensure the most responsive, best customer service state government."

The MLB and MSHDA work closely on many efforts to revitalize Michigan communities, including blight elimination and the successful Neighborhood Stabilization Programs. The MLB was established in 2003 and promotes economic growth in Michigan through the acquisition and sale of public property, and the support of local land bank operations.

The order also transfers the State Building Authority (SBA) from the Department of Technology, Management, and Budget to the Department of Treasury.

The SBA was organized in 1964 and its purpose is to acquire, construct, equip and renovate buildings and equipment for the use of the State of Michigan, including public universities and community colleges. The SBA is governed by a five-member Board of Trustees appointed by the governor, with advice and consent of the Senate. A total of three full-time positions will transfer to Treasury, which better positions the SBA within state government and consolidates most of the bonding functions within one department. This transfer creates operational efficiencies and improves coordination of state bonding activity.

The full text of E.O. 2013-8 is at www.michigan.gov/snyder.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-303681--,00.html
