Public Statements
Snyder Signs Bills to Simplify RV Licensing
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 23, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today signed a pair of bills that simplifies the licensing process for certain recreational vehicles in Michigan.

"As warmer weather approaches, this is a common-sense change that reduces regulation to better allow residents to get out and enjoy Pure Michigan," Snyder said.

House Bills 4052 and 4053, sponsored by state Rep. Ken Kurtz, change the classification of non-motorized recreational vehicle sales to the same classification for motorized RVs under the Motor Vehicle Sales Finance Act (MVSFA). The new laws simplify the licensing process by eliminating extra paperwork and policies for dealers who sell both motorized and non-motorized RVs. Dealers who only sell non-motorized RVs will have the option to be licensed under the MVSFA or the Retail Installment Sales Act.

HBs 4052 and 4053 are now Public Acts 16 and 17 of 2013.

Snyder also signed the following two bills:

HB 4045, sponsored by state Rep. Hugh Crawford, amends the licensing process for fire alarm technicians by removing a requirement that apprenticeship training programs for fire alarm specialty apprentice technicians be equivalent to federal standards. Removing the provision will separate the training requirements for electricians and fire alarm technicians, bringing Michigan in line with other states. Fire alarm technicians work mainly on low-voltage projects that do not require the same training as an electrician. It is now PA 18.

HB 4123, sponsored by state Rep. Roger Victory, places limits on lawsuits where injury, death or property damage occurred if propane gas equipment was modified or repaired by an unqualified third party, or used in an inappropriate fashion without the propane company's knowledge or consent. The bill is now PA 19.

For more information on legislation, visit michiganlegislature.org.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-300960--,00.html
