Public Statements
Snyder joins social media iMarch for immigration reform
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: April 17, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder has joined a nationwide effort to urge Congress to enact forward-looking immigration reform that would allow Michigan and other states to create jobs by attracting innovators and entrepreneurs from other countries.

The effort - The March for Innovation - is an online "virtual march" on Washington. In addition to Snyder, the effort also is being supported by other government and business leaders, who are focusing on the economic potential of bringing more skilled workers to the United States.

In a newly released video, the governor announced his participation in The March for Innovation and explained how Michigan can benefit from smarter immigration policy. View the video at: http://youtu.be/p8PX9D5_FdM

"If you made a short list of what made America great, immigration would be on it," Snyder said. "In Michigan, some of our biggest job-creators were founded by immigrants. Companies like Dow, Meijer and Masco. That's true all across the country. Forty percent of Fortune 500 companies were started by immigrants or their children. They employ 10 million people around the globe.
"Unfortunately, we're turning that talent away. International students come to our country to study in our schools. Then they're forced to leave and they're taking jobs with them."
Other participants in The March for Innovation include New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and leaders of technology and innovation companies from Silicon Valley startups to companies across America. They include David Karp, of Tumblr; Hilary Mason, of Bit.ly; Gary Shapiro, of the Consumer Electronics Association; Craig Newmark, of Craigslist; Steve Case, former chief executive officer and chairman of America Online; and Josh Linkner, of Detroit Venture Partners.
Learn more about The March for Innovation at http://www.marchforinnovation.com/

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-300362--,00.html
