Public Statements
Snyder Issues Statement on Immigration Reforms
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 30, 2013
Location: Unknown

Gov. Rick Snyder today issued the following statement regarding federal discussions on immigration law reform:
"Achieving bipartisan immigration reform at the federal level would be a great example of relentless positive action by Washington," Snyder said. "For too long, America has focused on differences and disagreements on immigration. I am pleased to see that the President and a bipartisan group of congressional leaders are moving forward on this issue, focusing on areas of agreement to reform U.S immigration policy in a comprehensive manner.

"For America to be competitive in the 21st century, it's critical that we implement an effective system for legal immigration. It should be a system that honors our country's heritage and also one that recognizes immigrants as valuable members of our communities who have long fueled our economic engine.
"Our current immigration system is inflexible and broken. It has hurt our economy by deterring foreign investment and making it harder for our companies to find the talent they need to grow and create more jobs. In Michigan, we know we must continue to welcome innovators, entrepreneurs and skilled workers from around the world. They can help our core industries - automotive, agriculture and tourism - continue to drive Michigan's comeback, and help our nation remain an economic superpower.
"I am looking forward to working with the President, Congress and my fellow Governors to see that legislation is enacted this year to ensure our borders are secure, that employers have an adequate system by which to verify employees are in the country legally, and that there is a tough, but fair, path to citizenship for qualified undocumented immigrants which would include background checks, restitution and other steps. Let's work together to achieve a sustainable long-term immigration policy that will make the legal immigration process the only viable path to working and living in the United States."

Source:
