Public Statements
Governor declares energy emergency due to temporary U.P. propane shortage
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 25, 2013
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today declared a State of Energy Emergency in Michigan under Executive Order 2013-3, due to temporary shortages of propane in areas of the Upper Peninsula and Wisconsin caused by increased demand due to the colder weather and a pipeline repair at a propane terminal in Rapid River, Mich.

The pipeline repairs, coupled with increased demand for propane due to extremely cold temperatures, have affected the transportation of propane. Carriers must seek alternate product terminals, resulting in longer driving distances and difficulty meeting supply needs in concert with state and federal hours-of-service regulations.

"The safety of Michigan residents and visitors is our highest priority," Snyder said. "This executive order will help ensure that propane supplies remain sufficient, especially during this period of cold weather."

The executive order suspends state and federal regulations relating to hours-of-service for motor carriers and drivers transporting propane within Michigan, enabling these individuals to exceed the number of hours and consecutive days in which they can operate a commercial motor vehicle.

Motor carriers or drivers currently subject to an out-of-service order, in which operations are prohibited, are not eligible for the exemption and suspension until the out-of-service order expires or the conditions for rescission have been satisfied. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the Michigan State Police require that drivers for motor carriers operating under the Declaration of Energy Emergency must have a copy of the declaration in their possession. It is available at www.michigan.gov/snyder.

EO 2013-3 is effective immediately and remains in effect until it is rescinded or until Feb. 3 at 11:59 p.m., whichever first occurs.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-293696--,00.html
