Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Leading Sixth Mission to China to Promote Business Investment, Tourism in Michigan
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Nov. 10, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder is leading an eight-day investment mission to China, focusing on promoting job-creating business growth and attracting investment in Michigan, plus pushing the state as a tourism destination.
Snyder will meet with government officials, industry executives and key media in China, departing Michigan on Thursday, Nov. 10, and returning Saturday, Nov. 19.
"We have built strong relationships in China since our first mission in 2011. We are excited to continue telling the Michigan comeback story and making the case that there is no better place in North America for Chinese companies to expand and create jobs than in Michigan," Snyder said. "As Chinese travelers are now going all over the world and the United States more, this is a great opportunity to tell people about Pure Michigan tourism."
For part of the mission, Snyder will be joined by a delegation led by Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan. This will be the first trade mission featuring both the governor and a mayor joining together to make the case for investing in Michigan.
"The economic and physical landscape of Detroit is being transformed, with auto suppliers opening new facilities in the city and the real estate market at an all-time high," Snyder said. "I look forward to working with Mayor Duggan and sharing Detroit's comeback story."
Snyder will visit Shanghai, Hangzhou, Chongqing, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Beijing, and Nanchang, where he will promote Michigan business opportunities, make a series of company visits and connect with senior government leaders. As part of the trip, he will visit Shanghai Auto City and join several events with the University of Michigan. Snyder also plans to meet with business media while in those cities and will hold a Michigan press conference in Beijing to talk about the state's efforts in mobility, the continuation of Detroit's comeback and tourism in Michigan.
The investment mission will be led by the Michigan Economic Development Corporation. Concurrent with the governor's mission, MEDC is leading 11 Michigan companies to China to meet with prospective business partners, distributors and buyers to increase export opportunities from Michigan to China.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-397208--,00.html
