Public Statements
Snyder Applauds 1,500 New GM Jobs Coming to Warren
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Oct. 8, 2012
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder today praised General Motors' decision to locate its new Innovation Center project in Warren, saying the auto manufacturer is demonstrating once again that Michigan is where the world looks for automotive leadership.

"GM's impressive recent growth can only be enhanced by the new Innovation Center going into the Warren Tech Center campus and we applaud this world-class auto company for tapping the technology talents of the world's premier manufacturing work force," Snyder said. "Our strength in engineering, research and development is a core Michigan asset that will mean good jobs in an innovative and exciting industry for all who pursue careers in scientific and technology fields. We as a state, and we as parents, must commit to training our kids to do these jobs."

General Motors announced the new Innovation Center, which will develop and review new programs or processes for any aspect of GM operations. GM plans to staff the new facility with up to 1,500 new jobs with no additional investment needed for this project as it will use available facilities on the GM Technical Center campus in the city of Warren.

"The next generation of IT workers, the talented visionaries we want contributing at the Michigan Innovation Center, are being trained at top computer science schools in Michigan and surrounding states," GM Chief Information Officer Randy Mott said. "The Michigan Innovation Center and its employees are critical to our overall IT business strategy and transformation."
Today's announcement is the first of three new projects expected to result in the creation of 2,000 jobs in Michigan from up to $300 million in additional new investment by the company for the combined projects. The Michigan Strategic Fund last month approved an increase to the maximum allowance on the company's 2009 Global Retention Michigan Economic Growth Authority tax credits to 33,000 jobs from 30,000 jobs.

Michigan Economic Development Corp. President and CEO Michael A. Finney said the company's decision to expand in Michigan demonstrates Michigan's strong advantages as a great place to do business.

"GM's commitment to further expand here means the company has invested nearly $3 billion in our state since 2009, and today's announcement sends a strong message around the world that Michigan's highly competitive business climate and tremendous work force capabilities mean real opportunities for world-class businesses," Finney said.

General Motors Co. and its partners produce vehicles in 30 countries. More information on the company and its subsidiaries can be found at http://www.gm.com.

Source:
