Public Statements
Busting State Bureaucracy
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 5, 2012
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder is inviting state government employees to become Bureaucracy Busters by using social media tools to offer innovative ideas for enhancing efficiency, customer service and their workplace.

The Bureaucracy Busters initiative is a takeoff on the Discovery Channel's "MythBusters" television program, which investigates the validity of rumors and myths, and "busts" those that aren't true.

"It's clear from my conversations with employees across state government that they're often bogged down with reports, procedures or processes that have little value or should be reinvented," Snyder said. "If we're doing something that doesn't need to be done, or could be accomplished more efficiently, then this is the type of bureaucracy that needs to be busted. The best way to do that is to tap the creativity and insights of the outstanding men and women who deliver quality customer service each day. They should be empowered to help reshape state government so that it not only fulfills its mission to Michigan taxpayers, but provides a professionally satisfying work experience for all employees as well. I look forward to many creative, constructive ideas coming from our state government team."

Bureaucracy Busters addresses the third goal of the governor's 10-point plan for reinventing Michigan, which is to reinvent our government. Spearheaded by Lt. Gov. Brian Calley, a focused pursuit of good government was launched in January's State of the State address. Today, individuals and organizations are working together in unprecedented ways across four primary areas: performance management, service and process optimization, employee engagement and change management. Bureaucracy Busters is designed to improve customer service and eliminate barriers to effectiveness while creating meaningful engagement of employees.

"The key to improving Michigan's government is engaging our talented work force," Calley said. "We must build a culture of leadership, excellence and teamwork. To do that, we must knock down barriers to change, encourage innovation and make sure employees know their ideas for improvement are respected. Bureaucracy Busters is a fun but important tool that shares this vision across state government."

Bureaucracy Busters is based on the concept of "crowdsourcing" in which solutions to a challenge are solicited from large groups of people, generally through social media. It features an Intranet website that allows employees not only to offer ideas for reinvention but to vote for their favorites as well.

Ideas that have potential for improving services and processes will be implemented.

Visit www.michigan.gov/snyder for more information on the governor's work to reinvent Michigan.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-285526--,00.html
