Public Statements
Snyder Continues Investment Mission by Meeting with German Auto Suppliers
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: March 21, 2012
Location: Kunzelsau, Germany

Gov. Rick Snyder today met with executives of German automotive suppliers whose companies operate in Michigan, seeking to strengthen relationships and attract new job-creating investments.
"Michigan is the best place for German companies, and particularly auto suppliers, that are interested in expanding in North America," Snyder said. "We offer a more business-friendly environment, a strong manufacturing base, research and development opportunities, and a highly skilled, highly productive work force that provide Michigan companies a great advantage over their competitors."
Snyder met with executives from several German companies including Herzing+Schroth in Obertshausen, Brose Fahrzeugteile in Wurzburg and the Würth Group in Kunzelsau.
Herzing+Schroth, which designs and manufactures transmission and engine parts, established its U.S. operations with the opening of the company's Troy office where it will manufacture high-precision engine and powertrain components.
Brose Fahrzeugteile's U.S. headquarters is in Auburn Hills, with a manufacturing facility in Warren. The automotive supplier has over 650 employees between the two locations.
The Würth Group has more than 400 companies in 84 countries and employs 66,000 people worldwide. A division of Wurth, Dokka Fasteners Inc., established a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Auburn Hills in 2010. Dokka produces fasteners for wind turbines, drilling rigs, cranes and steel construction.
Snyder has traveled Europe in a one-week investment mission to Italy and Germany. State business leaders and economists see great potential growth opportunities for Michigan:
- Michigan exports to Europe totaled $6 billion in 2011, with transportation equipment and chemicals accounting for nearly half of the total.
- Michigan exports to Italy totaled $394 million in 2011, with transportation equipment accounting for more than half of the total. Italy accounted for 6 percent of the state's total exports to Europe in 2011.
- Michigan exports to Germany totaled nearly $1.8 billion in 2011, led by transportation equipment, nonmetallic mineral products and primary metal manufacturing. Germany accounted for nearly 30 percent of Michigan exports to Europe in 2011.
- Approximately 80,000 Michigan residents are employed by German- and Italian-owned companies that operate here. These companies, representing a wide range of industry sectors, are heavily concentrated in advanced automotive manufacturing and research and development, sectors well known for producing high-wage jobs.
The mission is Snyder's second since taking office in 2011. Last September, he led an eight-day trade mission in Asia, where he and a Michigan delegation met with Japanese, Chinese and Korean government officials and major company executives to promote business opportunities in Michigan.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-273904--,00.html
