Public Statements
The Detroit News - Snyder: Mitt Romney is the Best Choice
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Feb. 16, 2012
Location: Unknown

By Governor Rick Snyder
A little more than a year ago, Michigan voters put their trust in a businessman to serve as their governor. They were looking for someone who understands the private sector and has a plan for reversing the economic decline that had befallen our great state.
Our reinvention of Michigan is under way, and the future of the Great Lakes State is bright. But our state is not an island unto itself. The American economy as a whole remains in difficult straits. Our next president must understand how markets work and know how to get our nation back on track. Mitt Romney is the man for the job.
Let's start with one important fact. Our country has never elected a president born and raised in Michigan. Mitt Romney was born in Detroit. His father served with distinction as governor. Before that, he was president of American Motors. Mitt grew up with the prospects of the auto industry and of Michigan discussed around the dinner table.
He has deep ties to our state. Mitt understands the challenges confronting Michigan as few Americans do.
Mitt Romney is not a career politician. He stands alone among the candidates, Democrat and Republican alike, with his extensive experience in business, having spent two decades helping to start companies and turn around failing ones. Most important, he has a credible plan for jumpstarting the economy and putting it on the path of sustained growth.
Michigan has laid out an impressive game plan for success. Across both peninsulas, Michiganians are working together with relentless positive action to move our state forward. We've made the tough decisions and bold reforms that are rejuvenating our state, such as restoring Michigan's fiscal integrity.
By eliminating a nagging $1.5 billion budget deficit last year, we're now in the position of recommending strategic, long-term investments in priority areas such as education, economic development and infrastructure. Simply put, we're getting it right and we're getting it done.
In contrast to Michigan's blueprint, Washington is still at the drawing board. Deficit spending continues to run rampant. For the first time since World War II, the nation's total debt burden exceeds the size of our entire economy. With Washington running trillion-dollar annual deficits, our nation's recovery has been the slowest since the 1930s.
Washington is not on a sustainable course. Mitt Romney will change the direction.
What Gov. Romney is proposing is not a wish list drawn in the air, but something that can actually be accomplished collaboratively with Congress. As governor of Massachusetts, he balanced the budget while cutting taxes 19 times, even as he was working with a Legislature that was overwhelmingly Democratic.
Upon taking office, his state had a $3 billion deficit. By the end of his term, it had accumulated a $2 billion "rainy day" fund. Both in the public and private sectors, Mitt Romney has a remarkable record of getting things done.
As president, Gov. Romney has pledged to work in partnership with states so they have the freedom to devise their own health policies.
He will move immediately to reduce non-defense discretionary spending by 5 percent. He also sees a clear path to bring spending below 20 percent of Gross Domestic Product in four years, which is in line with historical precedent.
The country can't afford to do business as usual. It's time for collaboration, fiscal courage and innovation to take root in Washington. Given his accomplishments, background, character, experience, ideas and intellect, Mitt Romney has what it takes to build a foundation for America's success in this global economy.
I hope all Michiganians will join me in supporting the candidacy of this favorite son of our great state.
Rick Snyder took office as Michigan's 48th governor on Jan. 1, 2011.

Source: http://www.mittromney.com/blogs/mitts-view/2012/02/detroit-news-snyder-op-ed-mitt-romney-best-choice
