Public Statements
Gov. Rick Snyder Issues Executive Order to Help Better Protect Health and Safety of Michiganders
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Sept. 22, 2016
Location: Lansing, MI

The state's Chief Medical Executive is being elevated to a cabinet-level position that reports to the Governor and Gov. Rick Snyder is creating a Public Health Advisory Commission through an executive order he signed today.
The establishment of a new cabinet-level post focused on public health and the creation of the commission were both recommendations of the Flint Water Advisory Task Force.
"We are continuing our efforts to improve the way state government works and ensure that we put people first across all departments and agencies of state government," Snyder said. "The Chief Medical Executive and this commission will help us better protect the public health and safety of all Michiganders."
The Office of Chief Medical Executive will serve within the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services but will report directly to the Governor. The office will help disseminate critical public health information, advocate for disease prevention, promote various health initiatives, and work with stakeholders to preserve the health of Michigan residents.
The Public Health Advisory Commission will serve as an advisory board within the Executive Office and will be tasked with providing input regarding public health issues, reviewing best practices across the nation, and recommending ways to improve public health in Michigan. The 24-member commission must complete its work and issue a final report to the Governor no later than April 1, 2017.
Membership will consist of the Chief Medical Executive, who will chair the Commission, the director of the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, or his or her designee, the director of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, or his or her designee, the director of MDHHS, or his or her designee, the director of the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, or his or her designee, and the director of the Michigan Department of State Police, or a designee from the Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security, as well as 18 gubernatorial appointees.














Source:
