Public Statements
Snyder Encourages President to Talk Jobs, Fiscal Responsibility, Innovation
Statement
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Jan. 24, 2012
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder issued the following statement in advance of the president's State of the Union address:
"The president has a crucial opportunity to assure our state that the federal government will be a collaborative, supportive partner in Michigan's reinvention. Michiganders have come together to enact the bold reforms that are getting our state back on its feet. While we can take pride in the fact that the rest of the nation is taking notice of our shared accomplishments, our work is far from complete. We need Washington to show responsible leadership so Michigan's needle can continue moving in the right direction.
"During last week's State of the State address I said that Job One in Michigan is still jobs. I encourage the president to echo that theme for the entire country. Too many American families are still looking for work and too many working families still face uncertainty. Michigan can help drive the nation's economic recovery. In fact, we've laid out a blueprint for success that Washington should follow.
"Michigan's commitment to fiscal responsibility and innovative thinking is creating an environment conducive to job growth. We've got our eye toward the future as well, reshaping the way we educate our children and rethinking the way in which we connect the talents of our workers with tomorrow's opportunities. But we also know there's plenty of talent beyond our own borders. That's why we want to work with the federal government to make our state more inviting to global investors and talented professionals with advanced academic degrees. I look forward to sharing Michigan's proposals on these critical issues when I testify before Congress next week.
"All Michiganders should be honored that our state will be well represented during the president's speech. Alicia Boler-Davis of Detroit and Bryan Ritterby of Holland are the first lady's guests during the event. Both are wonderful examples of how we're all moving forward together. I'm proud to say that Mr. Ritterby's employer, Energetx Composites of Holland, was the first recipient of our state's Reinventing Michigan award. The company's innovative approach underscores the creativity and energy that define Michigan.
"Michigan is ready to continue driving forward with relentless positive action. I look forward to our federal partners joining us so Michigan and America can reach their full potential. We know what needs to be done. Let's work together at all levels to make it happen."
Editor's note: The governor will testify before the House Education and Workforce Committee in Washington on Feb. 1.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-269866--,00.html
