Public Statements
Governor's Signature Removes Road Blocks to Regional Cooperation; Local Governments Given Greater Flexibility in Sharing Services
Press Release
By: Rick Snyder
Date: Dec. 14, 2011
Location: Lansing, MI

Gov. Rick Snyder has signed a package of bills that removes longstanding obstacles for local governments working to consolidate services.
The new public acts give municipal leaders greater flexibility to work together. They also bring much needed clarity to existing state law. The changes were long sought by local officials and were called for by the governor in his Special Message to the Legislature on Community Development and Local Government Reform.
"Local governments, willing to share common services are often held back by the very laws intended to help them" Snyder said. "The reforms I have signed into law offer municipal leaders a clear path to common sense collaborations. By reaching across historical boundary lines, dynamic communities are built and valuable taxpayer dollars are saved."
The governor signed the following six bills:
House Bill 4309, sponsored by state Rep. Eileen Kowall; H.B. 4311, sponsored by state Rep. Paul Opsommer; and H.B. 4312, sponsored by state Rep. Thomas Hooker amend various acts relating to locally consolidated services. These bills specifically lift the requirement of maintaining prior labor contracts, staff seniority levels and benefit packages.
Senate Bills 8 and 9, sponsored state Sen. Mark Jansen create the Municipal Partnerships Act that authorizes municipalities and public entities to enter into contracts to provide common services. The Municipal Partnership Act also defines what a shared service contract can or cannot contain, excludes shared service contracts from being subject to a local referendum under a charter or ordinance and sets guidelines for funding joint ventures.
S.B. 493, sponsored by state Sen. Arlan Meekhof, amends the Public Employment Relations Act (PERA) to prohibit bargaining of agreements that limit a public employer's ability to enter into an intergovernmental agreement. The bill does not eliminate the ability to collectively bargain on the effect of an intergovernmental agreement that results in consolidated services.
These bills are now Public Acts 258-263. More detailed analysis can be found at legislature.mi.gov.

Source: http://www.michigan.gov/snyder/0,4668,7-277-57577_57657-267457--,00.html
