Public Statements
Burgum, Baesler applaud innovative education bill
Press Release
By: Doug Burgum
Date: April 11, 2017
Location: Bismarck, ND

Gov. Doug Burgum, Superintendent of Public Instruction Kirsten Baesler, state legislators and others participated today in a ceremonial signing of Senate Bill 2186, which promotes innovative approaches to education in North Dakota.
"This bill takes a crucial step in the right direction, empowering local school districts to better shape educational delivery to meet the needs of the 21st century," Burgum said. "We are excited to put control of education back where it belongs -- in the hands of teachers, students and parents."
The bill allows teachers and schools -- with the approval of their school board -- to submit a request to waive sections of law related to K-12 education, provided their plan improves education delivery or administration, increases educational opportunities or improves the academic success of students. After review, the state superintendent may approve or deny the plan.
"This bill promotes the sharing of creative education practices among our schools," Baesler said. "This bill gives our schools the opportunity to prepare multi-year innovation plans, with the support of the school board, teachers, school staff, parents and members of the community. Innovation requires us to take a close look at our current practices, and think about ways to make them better."
The bipartisan bill was backed by the Department of Public Instruction (DPI), North Dakota United, the North Dakota Council of Educational Leaders, the North Dakota School Boards Association, the governor's office and parents seeking innovative, student-centric education.
The bill's prime sponsor, Sen. Nicole Poolman, R-Bismarck, an English teacher at Century High School, said education has changed dramatically over the last 20 years in terms of content and instructional methods, but what hasn't changed are the state rules and structures by which schools must abide.

Source:
