Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper, Lt. Gov. Garcia to Commemorate Second Anniversary of 2013 Floods
Statement
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Sept. 10, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper, Lt. Gov. Joe Garcia and the Colorado Resiliency and Recovery Office will commemorate the 2013 floods through Colorado United community service events on Saturday, Sept. 12, 2015.
"It's been two years since those historic floods that took lives, washed away roads, and damaged businesses, neighborhoods and homes," said Hickenlooper. "The work that has been done to rebuild our communities is extraordinary, and while we know there is still more to do, Saturday is an opportunity to take a moment and reflect, remember and recognize the resilient Colorado spirit."
Twenty-four counties were affected in 2013 floods, causing nearly $4 billion in damages, displacing more than 18,000 residents, and impacting countless lives. Local governments, state agencies, voluntary organizations and many Coloradans continue to undertake rebuilding, recovery and resiliency efforts throughout the flood impacted areas. Both Drake and Lyons and community partners will be holding events on Saturday, Sept. 12:
8:00 a.m. -- Wildlands Restoration Volunteers is hosting a river restoration day along the lower North Fork of the Big Thompson River. Location: Lower North Fork, Big Thompson River.
2:00 p.m. -- Gov. Hickenlooper will attend the Sounds of Lyons music festival to celebrate and dedicate the completed Clarifier Mosaic Project. The program will begin with a viewing of the Clarifier Project, followed by a community celebration with music and choreography by Mayama Movement Studio. Location: Black Bear Hole and Sandstone Park, Lyons.
2:30 p.m. -- Lt. Gov. Garcia and local volunteers will be working on a rehab project to help homeowners get back into homes that were impacted by the 2013 floods. Location: 1607 Hwy 34, Drake.
9:00 p.m. -- Oskar Blues Grill & Brew is hosting the All-Star Funk Band as part of Viva Lyons, a celebration commemorating the 2013 flood and celebrating two years of rebuilding Lyons Strong. Location: Oskar Blues Grill & Brew, 303 Main St., Lyons.
"The state continues to partner and support our communities with a sense of urgency and diligently works to find additional resources to help our state recover," said Molly Urbina, executive director at the Colorado Resiliency and Recovery Office.  "Coloradans continue to rebuild their communities and have shown amazing perseverance and leadership over the last two years."

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-lt-gov-garcia-commemorate-second-anniversary-2013-floods
