Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper announces Red Rocks Park and Mount Morrison Civilian Conservation Corps Camp named National Historic Landmark
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Aug. 4, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today Red Rocks Park and Mount Morrison Civilian Conservation Corps Camp has been named a National Historic Landmark by the National Park Service and Department of the Interior.
The designation recognizes sites that possess exceptional value and quality in illustrating or interpreting the heritage of the United States.
"This designation reinforces Red Rocks Park and its remarkable landscape of red sandstone monoliths as a true icon for Colorado," said Gov. Hickenlooper. "It's renowned as the only naturally-occurring, acoustically perfect amphitheater in the world, and the diverse landscape attracts thousands of outdoor enthusiasts and even dinosaur fans. The Mount Morrison CCC camp is another historical treasure in the park, and one of the few surviving camps in the nation. It's the perfect time to rediscover the park, see a show under the stars, and enjoy all it has to offer."
According to the announcement by the National Park Service, "The outstanding architecture and landscape architecture of Red Rocks Park and Mount Morrison Civilian Conservation Corps Camp illustrate the principles and practices of New Deal-era naturalistic park design and master planning in a metropolitan park as well as the use of Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) labor to develop such a park. Mount Morrison CCC Camp is one of the few surviving camps in the nation that retains a high concentration of original resources. The amphitheater in the park is one of America's best known performing arts venues, famous for its natural acoustics, design, and setting."
Established in 1935, the National Historic Landmarks Program is administered by the National Park Service on behalf of the Secretary of the Interior. If designated, property ownership remains the same, but each site receives a plaque and is eligible for technical preservation advice.

Source:
