Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Named to the National Governors Association Economic Development and Commerce Committee
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: July 25, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper today was named a member of the National Governors Association (NGA) Economic Development and Commerce Committee by NGA Chair Utah Gov. Gary Herbert and NGA Vice Chair Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe.
The Economic Development and Commerce Committee handles issues dealing with transportation infrastructure, telecommunications, international trade promotion, financial services regulation, science and technology development, and affordable housing. Members of the committee ensure that the governors' views are represented in the shaping of federal policy.
"Colorado continues to be a leader in economic development and business with one of the fastest growing economies in the country," said Hickenlooper. "I look forward to serving on the NGA Economic Development and Commerce Committee where as governors, we will be positioned to further influence federal legislation and regulations that affect economic development and commerce policies."
Hickenlooper was elected Chair of the National Governors Association last summer and completed his one year term this week. His chair initiative, Delivering Results, focused on good government, developing a guide on how to recruit and hire, formulating efficient regulations and using data to drive results in government.
Founded in 1908, NGA is the collective voice of the nation's governors and one of Washington, D.C.'s most respected public policy organizations. Its members are the governors of the 55 states, territories and commonwealths. NGA provides governors and their senior staff members with services that range from representing states on Capitol Hill and before the Administration on key federal issues to developing and implementing innovative solutions to public policy challenges through the NGA Center for Best Practices.

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-named-national-governors-association-economic-development-and-commerce
