Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Adopts Colorado Resiliency Framework
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: June 1, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. Hickenlooper today announced the adoption of the Colorado Resiliency Framework, a plan that represents Colorado's long-term investment and commitment to a more resilient future following the natural disasters that have impacted the state.
The Framework was created through the engagement of thousands of Coloradans, identification and analysis of risks and vulnerabilities from hazards and changing conditions, and the identification of action items for state implementation. It also represents a call to action for those with a stake in resiliency to participate in making it an ongoing priority and reality.
"Communities throughout the state have been impacted by blizzards, wildfires, floods, tornadoes, and even an earthquake in the past decade," Hickenlooper said. "Through these disasters, Coloradans have shown great resolve to build back stronger which we want to continue to empower. The Framework is one more example of Colorado developing innovative solutions to build a better future."
Chief Resiliency and Recovery Officer, Molly Urbina, whose office coordinated the development of the Framework said, "Through the Framework, the state seeks to not only support efforts to build back, but to support communities in their efforts to thrive in the face of threats from hazards and changing conditions."
With the adoption of the Framework, Hickenlooper also announced that the Colorado Recovery Office has been renamed the Colorado Resiliency and Recovery Office. The office will hold the dual responsibility of continuing its recovery mission, as well as coordinating the long-term implementation of the state's resiliency efforts in partnership with state, federal and local agencies, non-profits and the private sector.
Coloradans can view the Framework and the accompanying Resiliency Roadmap, which lays out the initial actions the State is taking to enhance Colorado's resiliency, at www.coloradounited.com.

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-adopts-colorado-resiliency-framework
