Public Statements
Joe Neguse Named Executive Director of the Department of Regulatory Agencies
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: May 11, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today Joe Neguse will be the executive director of the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies (DORA) effective June 1, 2015. He will replace Barbara Kelley who has served in the role since 2009.
"Joe's experience as an attorney, civic leader and public servant will be an invaluable asset to DORA," said Hickenlooper. "Our business friendly environment is an essential part of Colorado's economic success, and Joe will champion that effort to further grow our vibrant business community and protect consumers."
Neguse is currently an associate at Holland & Hart LLP, the state's largest law firm, where he he works as a litigator representing clients in employment, commercial and regulatory matters.
"I am deeply honored for the opportunity to be part of Governor Hickenlooper's administration, and look forward to continuing DORA's important work in creating a fair and competitive business environment and reducing regulatory burdens for businesses and consumers alike," said Neguse.
Before joining Holland & Hart, Neguse was elected to serve on the CU Board of Regents, the second African-American to be elected Regent in Colorado history. He served a six year term representing the 2nd Congressional District on the Board, which oversees the University of Colorado System (the third largest employer in the state with an operating budget of $3.4 billion). Prior to his election as Regent, Neguse was appointed by the Boulder City Council to serve as a Commissioner on the Boulder Housing Authority. He ran for Colorado secretary of state in 2014.
Neguse holds a bachelor's degree in economics and political science from the University of Colorado where he graduated summa cum laude and also served as student body president. He received his juris doctorate from the University of Colorado Law School, where he served as class president.
Neguse was selected for inclusion in the 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015 Colorado Super Lawyers--Rising Stars list and the National Black Lawyers Top 40 Under 40 in 2015, and received the University of Colorado Law School's Distinguished Recent Alumnus Award in 2012. He has been widely recognized for his community service, including receiving the Arches of Hope Community Service Award in 2012. He currently lives with his fiancée, Andrea, in Broomfield.
Kelley has served in the role since her appointment by Gov. Bill Ritter in 2009, and reappointed by Hickenlooper in 2011. She led several projects including "Pits and Peeves," where she led DORA to work with businesses and communities in identifying ways to eliminate red tape and streamline regulations. She has been chair of the Governor's Task Force on Wildfire Insurance and Forest Health, hosted the Veterans License, Credential and Employment workshop and continued to increase employment and training services for Colorado's veterans.
"Barbara was instrumental in amending and cutting thousands of unnecessary rules and regulations for businesses across the state, creating a pro-business environment that has been a building block for growing our economy," said Hickenlooper. "We are indebted to Barbara for her service and know she will continue to be successful in her future role."
"My service as executive director of DORA has been an amazing experience, and I appreciate the opportunity to have been a part of such an important organization," said Kelley.

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/governor/news/joe-neguse-named-executive-director-department-regulatory-agencies
