Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper names Irv Halter as Executive Director of Department of Local Affairs
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: April 28, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today Irving "Irv" Halter, Jr., will be the executive director of the Department of Local Affairs (DOLA) effective May 1, 2015.

"Irv Halter has a distinguished career in the public and private sector. His vast experience and passion for good government will greatly benefit the State of Colorado," said Hickenlooper. "We are thrilled he will be leading the agency and joining our team."

Halter, a retired major general in the U.S. Air Force, joins the state after a distinguished military career with more than 32 years as an Air Force Officer. Halter served as a fighter pilot in the Air Force, leading more than 35,000 airmen and managing assets valued in the billions. As vice director of operations, Halter also advised the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in his duties as principal military advisor to the Secretary of Defense and the President.

From 2009-2013, he was vice president of Computer Sciences Corporation for Air and Space, where he was responsible for leading key programs valued at over $750 million annually for the U.S. Air Force, NASA and the Missile Defense Agency.

"I am honored to join Governor Hickenlooper's team and look forward to working with the Department of Local Affairs professionals to strengthen and support Colorado communities," Halter said.

He replaces Reeves Brown who resigned in March, having served since 2011, and Kevin Patterson, chief administrative officer, who filled the interim role.

Halter grew up on a family farm in rural southern New Jersey. He graduated with a degree in history from the United States Air Force Academy, and a masters degree in international affairs from Troy State University. He and his wife Judy, a graduate of the University of Denver, have lived in Colorado Springs for the past six years. He is a member of the Colorado Springs Regional Business Alliance, and a former vice Chairman of the Military Affairs Committee. He ran for Congress in Colorado's District 5 in 2014.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251662511463&pagename=CBONWrapper
