Public Statements
June Taylor named Executive Director of Department of Personnel and Administration
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today June Taylor will be executive director for the Colorado Department of Personnel and Administration. She will assume this role on May 11, 2015.
Taylor is now Senior Manager of Culture, Diversity and Equal Opportunity Programs for Lockheed Martin Space Systems Company, managing all equal opportunity, affirmative action and diversity programs for the national business operations.
"June has a wealth of personnel experience in both public and private sector. She has successfully managed critical human resource initiatives that include bringing in top talent, driving performance initiatives, and creating best practices for equal opportunity," said Hickenlooper. "With her experience and leadership, we will raise the bar even higher for the state."
Prior to joining Lockheed Martin, Taylor spent more than a decade as an attorney with the federal government, litigating complex cases in the areas of energy, telecommunications and employment law. She also served in multiple leadership roles for the Federal Communications Commission, including chief of staff where she was responsible for bureau operations which included policy, outreach and mediating consumer complaints and inquiries within the Commission.
"I am excited to have this opportunity to work for Governor Hickenlooper and to join such a distinguished team," said Taylor. "I look forward to working shoulder to shoulder with the employees of DPA who are dedicated to providing the highest quality service to Coloradans."
Taylor graduated cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from the University of New Mexico, and earned her JD from the University of Denver College of Law. She is a member of the Colorado Asian Pacific American Bar Association and Lockheed Martin's Council of Asian American Leaders.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251662489682&pagename=CBONWrapper
