Public Statements
Colorado receives $7.6 million award from HUD to assist vulnerable Coloradans
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper joined the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Deputy Regional Administrator Eric Cobb, and other nonprofits, mental health centers, and housing authorities today to celebrate the announcement of a $7.6 million award to the Colorado Division of Housing from HUD. The award is designed to provide rental vouchers for up to 411 vulnerable individuals.

The Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Project Rental Assistance (PRA) Program allows low-income individuals with significant and long-term disabilities to live independently by providing affordable housing linked with voluntary services and supports.

"We see dramatically improved health outcomes and reduced emergency spending when we work together to identify, refer, support and connect those who are homeless or at risk for homelessness with rental assistance and access to services," said Hickenlooper.

This announcement, which follows a previous $1.6 million HUD award for 120 permanent supportive housing vouchers for homeless individuals, creates an increased incentive for the development of new permanent supportive housing projects across Colorado.
These federal dollars will also help Colorado further the goals of the State Olmstead Plan by allowing individuals to leave nursing homes and other long-term care facilities in order to live more productive and fulfilling lives in the community.
"HUD is committed to preventing and ending homelessness in Colorado," said Cobb. "This funding will assist very low-income residents with disabilities across the state find decent and safe housing that they can afford. Persons living with a disability should never have to worry about being able to find a safe place to live."
Through collaboration with federal and state partners, Colorado will continue to meet the needs of individuals with disabilities and move one step closer to ensuring that every individual has a place to call home.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251661282489&pagename=CBONWrapper
