Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Names Don Brown as Agriculture Commissioner
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Jan. 29, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today Don Brown will be the Commissioner of Agriculture, effective Feb. 17, 2015. He replaces John Salazar who retired last month, having served since 2011.
"We are fortunate to welcome Don Brown to the team and thrilled to add his experience and leadership to Colorado's thriving agriculture industry," said Hickenlooper. "Agriculture is a critical sector for our economy, contributing $40 billion and providing nearly 173,000 jobs annually. Having Don at the helm, we know agriculture across Colorado will continue to grow."
As commissioner, Brown will lead the department's daily operations, direct its 300 employees, and oversee the agency's seven divisions: Animal Health; Brand Inspection; Colorado State Fair; Conservation Services; Inspection and Consumer Services; Markets; and Plant Industry.
"It's an honor and a privilege to have an opportunity to work with Gov. Hickenlooper and the Department of Agriculture. To be able to contribute to the industry which I have so greatly benefited from is incredibly rewarding," said Brown. "I have lived the life of those who the commissioner is to serve and I am committed to doing all I can to see that the industry continues to grow and that farmers and ranchers have every opportunity to succeed."
Brown, a third-generation farmer in Yuma County, has run several successful businesses while spending most of his career managing and growing his family's extensive farm operations. He has also been active in water conservation, energy development and technology innovation issues within the industry.
Brown is a recipient of the Bill Seward Memorial Award - Lifetime Achievement for Outstanding Cattle Producer. He is active in the National Cattlemen's Association, Colorado Cattlemen's Association, National Corn Growers and the Colorado Corn Growers Association and has also served as president of the Yuma County Cattlemen's Association and state president of the Future Farmers of America.
Brown graduated with a degree in agriculture from Northeastern Junior College in Sterling, and received a vocational agriculture education degree with honors from Colorado State University.
About the Department of Agriculture
The mission of the Department of Agriculture is to strengthen and advance Colorado agriculture; promote a safe, high quality, and sustainable food supply; and protect consumers, the environment, and natural resources. The vision of the Department of Agriculture is that Colorado agriculture be strong and vibrant, a key driver of the state's economy, and recognized worldwide for its safe, affordable, and abundant supply of high quality food and agricultural products.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251660793158&pagename=CBONWrapper#
