Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Distribution of Nearly $151 Million in Grants Awarded to Local Governments
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Jan. 26, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today that
since July 2012, $150,632,084 million in Energy and Mineral Impact Assistance Fund grants has been awarded to 549 projects across the state that address key public improvements ranging from courthouse renovations and libraries to water and wastewater systems.
In addition, in 2014, more than $78 million in direct distributions were made to 507 local governments and nearly $7.4 million has helped support community needs in areas impacted by the devastating floods of 2013.
"This grant program is a valuable tool for Colorado's smaller and rural communities," said Hickenlooper. "With these funds, communities are able to plan for and implement substantial capital improvements, essential public projects and other services."
Types of projects funded by the program include construction of or improvements to water and sewer systems, roads, recreation centers, senior centers and other public facilities, fire protection buildings and equipment, and local government planning.

The Department of Local Affairs (DOLA) administers the grant program, which assists local governments that are socially and/or economically impacted by the development, processing, or energy conversion of minerals and mineral fuels. Funds come from the state severance tax on energy and mineral production and from a portion of the state's share of royalties paid to the federal government for mining and drilling of minerals and mineral fuels on federally-owned land.
The program was created by the legislature in 1977 although the competitive grant program was temporarily suspended from August 2010 until July 2012 when funds were redirected to offset state General Fund shortfalls.
"We are so pleased this program is available to support public improvements in communities across Colorado," said Reeves Brown, executive director of DOLA. "Many local governments depend on these funds for essential public infrastructure and we understand the importance this fund plays in helping to achieve community goals."
"These dollars strengthen communities and represent partnership between all levels of government and the energy industry. Our department takes great pride in administering these funds," Brown said.
Susan Alvillar, community affairs representative for WPX Energy and a member of the Energy and Mineral Impact Advisory Committee said, "Energy Impact Funds are an important source of funding for local governments that helps offset the fiscal challenges facing communities. We are excited and happy to partner with Gov. Hickenlooper through the energy impact program."
Direct distribution is based on the number of production employees in the energy impacted communities, as well as permits, production, population and highway user miles (HUTF).

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251660739324&pagename=CBONWrapper
