Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Presents First Draft of Colorado's Water Plan
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Dec. 10, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper today presented the first draft of Colorado's Water Plan, praising the work of hundreds of participants across the state for their role in building a collaborative approach for navigating Colorado's water challenges.
"The collaborative and comprehensive nature of this plan marks a new way to conduct our water business, said Hickenlooper. "We owe a great debt to the hundreds of volunteers who've dedicated enormous amounts of their time and energy to this process, and to the thousands from every corner of the state who provided their thoughtful comments to our basin roundtables and the Colorado Water Conservation Board."
Gov. Hickenlooper issued an executive order in May of 2013 directing creation of Colorado's Water Plan. The plan draws on nine years of unprecedented discussion and consensus-building from a wide cross-section of interests participating in roundtables within every river basin in Colorado, as well as through the Interbasin Compact Committee, a statewide group with participants from every basin roundtable.
"This plan represents hundreds of conversations and comments involving people in our cities, our rural communities, from both sides of the Continental Divide. It benefited from the engagement of farmers, ranchers, environmentalists, utilities and water districts, industry and business, and the public at large," said James Eklund, director of the Colorado Water Conservation Board. "This extraordinary level of dialogue has helped every interest gain a greater understanding and appreciation for the values of fellow stakeholders and created an environment where all parties can work more productively together to develop solutions."
The initial draft of the water plan aligns with the governor's executive order in working to strike the right balance between many important and competing interests. At the same time, the plan upholds key Colorado water values that ensure water is available to support a strong economy, vibrant and sustainable cities, productive agriculture, a thriving natural environment and world-renown recreational opportunities.
"The completion of the draft plan represents not only the countless staff and roundtable hours invested in its development but also the beginning of a new process of review, refinement and ultimately implementation of the important concepts and challenges facing Colorado's water future," said Eric Kuhn, general manager of the Colorado River District. "Now is the time for all of those involved - to focus collectively and collaboratively on how to meet Colorado's current and future water needs in a manner that works for all Coloradans."
"With strong leadership and hard work, grand ideas can become reality, said Jim Lochhead, chief executive officer of Denver Water. "We know collaborative efforts can work because we've seen it first-hand through the Colorado River Cooperative Agreement. We look forward to working with the Governor's Office and water interests across the state to chart a course for our water future."
Colorado's Water Plan reflects agreement from water interests statewide on broad, near-term actions needed to secure our water future. These include efforts to conserve and store water, additional re-use and recycling of water and providing more options to agriculture to avoid the permanent dry-up of our farm and ranch land.

"The release of the draft Colorado Water Plan is a great milestone in planning for the state's future," said Eric Wilkinson, general manager of the Northern Colorado Water Conservancy District. "It is imperative that the statewide collaboration, cooperation, compromise, and problem solving discussions represented by the draft Water Plan continue if Colorado is to find ways to best manage our available water resources for the benefit of the generations that follow."

Colorado's Water Plan doesn't prescribe specific projects, but outlines how various interests across basins can attain locally driven, collaborative solutions, and how balanced approaches can garner the broad support needed to accelerate environmentally sound projects and shorten the federal regulatory process often associated with water-related actions in Colorado. The plan does not do anything to change the status of water rights as a property right, nor prevent the buying and selling of those rights. Nor does it affect Colorado's longstanding Prior Appropriation Doctrine.

"This draft Colorado plan is a milestone in the mapping of alternatives to meet Colorado's diverse current and future demands of our limited water resources within the framework of the prior appropriation system," said Bruce Whitehead, executive director of the Southwestern Water Conservation District. "Multiple interests in southwest Colorado and throughout the state have participated in the development of the plan, resulting in a balanced and detailed draft that will continue to evolve as it is finalized by the partners in the process."

Work on Colorado's Water Plan will continue as the public and stakeholders are encouraged to comment upon the draft plan (comments can be submitted here) as revisions continue ahead of a finalized version to be submitted to the governor next year. The plan itself is not intended to be formally completed, however, as public priorities and evolving conditions continue to shape its future.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251659031098&pagename=CBONWrapper
