Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Federal Approval on State Action Plan for $199.3 Million in Recovery Funds
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Nov. 12, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today that the state's most recent action plan for disbursements of recovery funds has been approved by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).

Specifically, HUD approved Colorado's Community Development Block Grant - Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Substantial Amendment to the Action Plan which outlines how Colorado will distribute $199.3 million in grant dollars received from HUD for flood and fire recovery programs.
"We are grateful to HUD for approval on our action plan which will provide even greater support to Colorado's most impacted communities devastated by last year's floods," said Hickenlooper. "We remain committed to continuing our work with local communities to build workable and meaningful plans for a successful, more resilient recovery, and we are pleased to be able to continue bringing much needed funds to aid in these efforts."
The $199.3 million is the second allocation of grant dollars that the state has received from HUD for disaster relief. In April, HUD approved the state's plan for its first allocation of $62.8 million. The state must follow HUD guidelines that 80 percent of the funds approved will be targeted in the three most impacted counties of Boulder, Weld and Larimer. The majority of the funding is intended to address the remaining disaster recovery and resiliency needs from the September flooding, while a second allocation will also target funds to other especially hard-hit areas from the 2012 High Park and Waldo Canyon wildfires and the 2013 Black Forest wildfires. The substantial amendment expands the current programs and includes new, innovative resiliency activities based on feedback from communities and the public.
"HUD commends the governor and the state on moving quickly to get these second round disaster recovery funds to the most flood impacted communities," said HUD Rocky Mountain Regional Administrator Rick M. Garcia. "These CDBG Disaster Recovery dollars are critical to rebuilding infrastructure and affordable housing and providing economic development support in the wake of last year's devastating floods."
Recovery plans that have been approved are available online at http://dola.colorado.gov/cdbg-dr/content/action-plans. Information on the implementation of any new programs or applications periods will also be posted online at the address above by Friday, Nov. 14, 2014.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251658160496&pagename=CBONWrapper
