Public Statements
In Final Debate, Hickenlooper Wins on Economic Growth, Bipartisan Leadership
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 24, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

During the final gubernatorial debate, Governor John Hickenlooper remained focused on issues that will move Colorado up including building and diversifying the economy, improving public education, and bipartisan leadership - in spite of opponent Rep. Bob Beauprez's continued attacks. While Colorado has endured 13 federally declared natural disasters, the state continues to be stronger than neighboring states with unemployment falling to 4.7 percent, $650 million dollars in the state's budget reserve fund, and an agriculture industry that has nearly doubled its exports and provides over $40 billion dollars annually to the economy.
"This is the last debate and so we really want to take the opportunity to demonstrate the stark contrast between myself and my opponent," Hickenlooper said. "Our campaign is, and will continue to be, positive and issue driven, not like the gutter muck we have recently witnessed. We are committed to building and expanding the state's economic growth, strengthening our public schools, diversifying our energy economy and working together and that's what we're going to remain focused on."
Hickenlooper took a strong stance on women's health issues, emphasizing his support for the Colorado Family Planning Initiative which has provided 30,000 women free or reduced IUDs or implants through 68 health clinics around the state. This has resulted in a 40 percent decrease in the teen birth rate and a 35 percent decrease in the teen abortion rate in the counties served by those health clinics.
Hickenlooper also addressed the issue of public safety and despite repeated attacks, he highlighted the work that has been done by his administration to reduce violent crimes and expand services to help people with mental health issues. He spoke of SB13-266 which created Strengthening Colorado's Mental Health System; a Plan to Safeguard all Coloradans. In August of this year the Colorado Department of Human Services launched a first-ever statewide 24 hour mental health crisis line as part of this bill. This service is now receiving over 200 daily calls and anticipates that number to double by next year.
Hickenlooper took a clear position on the importance of education, emphasizing the role that his administration has taken to fight for equal opportunities for every child in the state. Colorado currently has one of the nation's most educated populations and is home to a number of prestigious universities, and our economy will continue to thrive with a strong educated workforce.
The contrast between the candidates on the issues was clear, and Hickenlooper was steadfast in his position regarding each topic. Through Gov. Hickenlooper's leadership, Colorado has grown stronger, seeing a rebounding economy, significant decreases in unemployment, and an incredible recovery despite 13 federally declared natural disasters. Hickenlooper remains relentlessly pro-business while cultivating entrepreneurship and promoting innovation.
As Governor, John Hickenlooper has supported commonsense policies that strengthen and diversify Colorado's economy, including an all of the above plan for Colorado's energy future. Colorado's Governor also spoke of the steady energy sector growth seen throughout the state with traditional energy jobs up 20 percent and renewable jobs up 20 percent as well. From investing in research and innovation to supporting commonsense energy policies, Hickenlooper worked with industry and environmental groups to create local fracking controls and disclosures, has encouraged wind and solar development, and has increased natural gas demand. Hickenlooper remains relentlessly pro-business while cultivating entrepreneurship and promoting innovation.

Source: http://www.hickenlooperforcolorado.com/news/press/in-final-debate-hickenlooper-wins-on-economic-growth-bipartisan-leadership
