Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Launch of CDOT Online Tool to Monitor Conduit, Fiber, Utility Trenching Projects
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 23, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper and the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) today announced that the launch of a new webpage and notification service to alert broadband companies of future conduit, fiber, and utility trenching projects on state highway rights-of-way.
"Through a collaborative effort, we updated our telecommunications laws with the goal of making Colorado investment ready while expanding broadband," said Hickenlooper. "This online service allows our private sector partners to more easily identify and plan for infrastructure investments, which improves access to broadband internet statewide."
Earlier this year, Gov. Hickenlooper signed into law a package of bi-partisan telecommunications bills that included House Bill 14-1327. The bill makes many changes to update state broadband laws and encourage infrastructure build-out in rural areas of Colorado. One of the bill's provisions directs CDOT to launch an online service in which telecommunications companies may receive information on upcoming state highway projects that involve trenching operations.
"Aligning our infrastructure investments with CDOT trenching projects can help us reduce costs, increase efficiencies and speed delivery of new and improved services to our customers," said Rich Jennings, Regional Senior Vice President, Comcast. "This is a common sense effort that makes Colorado an even better place to invest."
This new service, available at www.coloradodot.info/projects/broadbandopentrench-notification-form, will better enable businesses to partner with the state to expand broadband infrastructure, with the goal of accelerating and improving delivery of telecommunications services throughout the state. Companies wishing to sign up to receive future trenching notices may do so online immediately.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251657925205&pagename=CBONWrapper
