Public Statements
Hickenlooper Focuses on Economy, Leadership at CACI Debate
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 23, 2014
Location: Unknown

During today's Colorado Association of Commerce and Industry (CACI) debate in Denver, Governor Hickenlooper highlighted Colorado's accomplishments over the past four years and emphasized his top priorities as governor of Colorado, including job creation, diversifying Colorado's economy, cutting red tape and finding bipartisan solutions.
"This debate provided an excellent opportunity to cut through the rhetoric and politics to talk directly to voters about the issues they care about,"Hickenlooper said. "We are proud of what Coloradans have accomplished together despite historic flooding, fires and drought including building the nation's fastest growing economy, reducing unemployment to 4.7 percent and witnessing our 35th straight month of job growth. We have run a clean, positive issue driven campaign, and I think there is a real, clear contrast between myself and my opponent."
As Governor, John Hickenlooper has supported commonsense policies that strengthen and diversify Colorado's economy, including an all of the above plan for Colorado's energy future. Colorado's Governor also spoke of the steady energy sector growth seen throughout the state with traditional energy jobs up 20 percent and renewable jobs up 20 percent as well. From investing in research and innovation to supporting commonsense energy policies, Hickenlooper worked with industry and environmental groups to create local fracking controls and disclosures, has encouraged wind and solar development, and has increased natural gas demand.
The contrast between the candidates on the issues was clear, and Hickenlooper was steadfast in his position regarding each topic. Through his leadership, Colorado has grown stronger, seeing a rebounding economy, significant decreases in unemployment, and an incredible recovery despite 13 federally declared natural disasters. Hickenlooper remains relentlessly pro-business while cultivating entrepreneurship and promoting innovation.

Source: http://www.hickenlooperforcolorado.com/news/press/hickenlooper-focuses-on-economy-leadership-at-caci-debate
