Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Launch of Study Designed to Examine the Military Value of Colorado
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 15, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

Governor John Hickenlooper today joined Major General Michael Edwards, adjutant general and executive director of the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs (DMVA), members of the Colorado Springs Business Alliance and other industry leaders to announce the selection of Whitney, Bradley & Brown, Inc. and subcontractor, Summit Economics of Colorado Springs, to conduct a statewide study to examine the military value of Colorado and the state's important role in national defense.
"Colorado's military and defense industry is an important and diversified anchor in our statewide economy, employing tens of thousands across the state while driving innovation, aerospace, engineering, technology and advanced manufacturing," said Hickenlooper. "Colorado has long been a vital contributor to the nation's defense and with the data from this study, we will be better able to protect installations and build related industry as national budgets continue to shift."
Colorado is home to a diverse mix of Department of Defense military installations including Fort Carson, Peterson Air Force Base, Buckley Air Force Base, and the United States Air Force Academy. These installations foster important synergies between the private sector and the government. Colorado has five major military installations and five strategic commands, including U.S. Northern Command (USNORTHCOM), North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD, and Air Force Space Command.
The military in Colorado employs nearly 75,000 personnel from military, civilian, and contract ranks with an economic impact of more than $7 billion. The study authorized by Senate Bill 14-157 will help fully identify the scope of the economic impact generated by this military presence and should be complete by April 2015.
Senate Bill 14-157 which was created in response to the national changes to the defense and military industry, including the restructuring of the defense budget. The study will provide the state with data that will help to assess, protect and build upon Colorado's military installations and defense industry. Bill sponsors include Senators Carroll and Cadman and Representatives Ryden and Nordberg.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251657772544&pagename=CBONWrapper
