Public Statements
Hickenlooper Focuses on Economy, Disaster Recovery, Public Safety and the Military Economy During Tonight's Debate in Colorado Springs
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 15, 2014
Location: Colorado Springs, CO

During tonight's debate in Colorado Springs, Governor John Hickenlooper emphasized the state's accomplishments over the past four years. Despite 13 federally declared natural disasters, the state continues to be stronger than neighboring states with a 42 percent decrease in unemployment, $650 million dollars in the state's budget reserve fund, and an agriculture industry that has nearly doubled its exports and provides over $40 billion dollars annually to the economy. El Paso county has seen unemployment drop from 9.1 percent to 5.1 percent in the past four years.
Colorado's Governor also spoke of the steady energy sector growth seen throughout the state with traditional energy jobs up 20 percent and renewable jobs up 20 percent as well. Through collaboration and compromise, Hickenlooper worked with industry and environmental groups to create local fracking controls and disclosures, has encouraged wind and solar development, and has increased natural gas demand. The industry has become more balanced while still protecting the environment for future generations.
Hickenlooper also took a strong stance on women's health issues, emphasizing his support for the Colorado Family Planning Initiative which has provided 30,000 women free or reduced IUDs or implants through 68 health clinics around the state. This has resulted in a 40 percent decrease in the teen birth rate and a 35 percent decrease in the teen abortion rate in the counties served by those health clinics.
The contrast between the candidates on the issues was clear, and Hickenlooper was steadfast in his position regarding each topic. Through his leadership, Colorado has grown stronger, seeing a rebounding economy, significant decreases in unemployment, and an incredible recovery despite 13 federally declared natural disasters. Hickenlooper remains relentlessly pro-business while cultivating entrepreneurship and promoting innovation.
During the debate, Hickenlooper also addressed the issue of public safety and despite repeated attacks, he highlighted the work that has been done by his administration to reduce violent crimes and expand services to help people with mental health issues. He spoke of SB13-266 which created Strengthening Colorado's Mental Health System; a Plan to Safeguard all Coloradans. In August of this year the Colorado Department of Human Services launched a first-ever statewide 24 hour mental health crisis line as part of this bill. This service is now receiving over 200 daily calls and anticipates that number to double by next year.
The Governor spoke about the Fort Lyon Supportive Residential Community that opened one year ago under his leadership. The facility provides housing with access to mental health and health care services, substance-abuse treatment and counseling, as well as educational and vocational training to individuals experiencing homelessness. Twenty-three percent of the current population are veterans , and in one year the facility has served more than 220 individuals.
Colorado's military economy was the subject of discussion during the debate, and Hickenlooper highlighted his work to support Colorado veterans and the military. Some of those efforts include the passage of legislation to prevent Colorado military base closures, the addition the military to the state's economic mission, and work to help combat veteran homelessness and promote veteran employment.
Hickenlooper also responded to his opponents claim that the state was in need of a Chief Financial Officer by underscoring that this administration has achieved four consecutive budgets that are both balanced and passed with bipartisan support He reminded his opponent that he came into office to find a staggering budgetary shortfall,. This administration has reduced that deficit and now has a $650 million reserve fund.
Hickenlooper took a clear position on the importance of education, emphasizing the role that his administration has taken to fight for equal opportunities for every child in the state. Colorado currently has one of the nation's most educated populations and is home to a number of prestigious universities, and our economy will continue to thrive with a strong educated workforce.
"Tonight's debate helped highlight the contrast in this election," Hickenlooper said. "We're running a positive campaign that focuses on the issues. Colorado made it through 13 federally declared natural disasters and created the country's fastest growing economy because we worked together as a state, we didn't let negative politics get in the way and we didn't tear each other down. By working together we can continue to overcome adversity and keep moving Colorado up. "

Source: http://www.hickenlooperforcolorado.com/news/press/hickenlooper-focuses-on-economy-disaster-recovery-public-safety-and-the-military-economy-during-tonights-debate-in-colorado-springs
