Public Statements
Hickenlooper Focuses on Economy, Energy, Education and More During Tonight's Debate at Colorado State University
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 9, 2014
Location: Fort Colins, CO

During tonight's debate at Colorado State University, Governor John Hickenlooper emphasized the state's accomplishments over the past four years. Despite 13 federally declared natural disasters, we continue to be stronger than our neighboring states with a 42 percent decrease in unemployment, $650 million dollars in the state's budget reserve fund, and an agriculture industry that has nearly doubled its exports and provides over $40 billion dollars annually to the economy.
Hickenlooper took a clear position on the importance of education, emphasizing the role that his administration has taken to fight for equal opportunities for every child in the state. Colorado currently has one of the nation's most educated populations and is home to a number of prestigious universities, and our economy will continue to thrive with a strong educated workforce.
Colorado's Governor also spoke of the steady energy sector growth seen throughout the state with traditional energy jobs up 20 percent and renewable jobs up 20 percent as well. Through collaboration and compromise, Hickenlooper worked with industry and environmental groups to create local fracking controls and disclosures, has encouraged wind and solar development, and has increased natural gas demand. The industry has become more balanced while still protecting the environment for future generations.
Hickenlooper also took a strong stance on women's health issues, emphasizing his support for the Colorado Family Planning Initiative which has provided 30,000 women free or reduced IUDs or implants through 68 health clinics around the state. This has resulted in a 40 percent decrease in the teen birth rate and a 35 percent decrease in the teen abortion rate in the counties served by those health clinics.
The contrast between the candidates on the issues was clear, and Hickenlooper was steadfast in his position regarding each topic. Through his leadership, Colorado has grown stronger, seeing a rebounding economy, significant decreases in unemployment, and an incredible recovery despite 13 federally declared natural disasters. Hickenlooper remains relentlessly pro-business while cultivating entrepreneurship and promoting innovation.
"We can and will capitalize on the growth and momentum we have accomplished over the past four years," Hickenlooper said. "Colorado has always been a state where people come to explore new ideas and new opportunities. By working together we will continue to overcome adversity and move Colorado up. Working together to achieve great things--that's the Colorado Way."

Source: http://www.hickenlooperforcolorado.com/news/press/hickenlooper-focuses-on-economy-energy-education-and-more-during-tonights-debate-at-colorado-state-university
