Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces $3.4 Million in Grants to Help Students Graduate with Less Debt; Connect with Jobs
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 9, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

Governor John Hickenlooper announced today the availability of $3.4 million in grants aimed at expanding and improving the network of programs focused on supporting students as they prepare for and pursue higher education.
The Colorado Opportunity Scholarship Initiative creates a network of community-based scholarship foundations dedicated to preparing students for success through ongoing collaborative efforts.
"Colorado families will find a lot more help walking the path to and through post-high school education in the coming year with these grants," Hickenlooper said. "When you talk to CEOs of companies, big and small, they confirm that an educated workforce is critical to business growth. This is as much a workforce development initiative as it is sound higher education policy."
The program grants are the first phase of a bipartisan plan approved by the Legislature (HB14-1384) to counter increasing student loan debt loads by incentivizing new scholarship dollar giving and linking that giving to best practices that result in better student outcomes.
The legislation was sponsored by Representatives Brittany Petersen (D-Jeffco) and Frank McNulty (R-Highlands Ranch) and Senators Jessie Ulibarri (D-Adams) and Larry Crowder (R-Alamosa). The governing board is comprised of the Colorado Workforce Development Council Executive Committee and three appointments by the governor representing Higher Education.
"The Scholarship Initiative grants are about getting our students through -- not just to -- their post-high school education." said Lt. Gov Joe Garcia, executive director of the Colorado Department of Higher Education. "We hope to spark growth in community partnerships throughout the state to help all students achieve success."
By spring 2016, the Scholarship Initiative plans to link these programs grants to new tuition-assistance dollars for Colorado students -- helping to close the affordability gap for nearly 3,000 students per year. $30 million has already been allocated to build a corpus for matching dollars to incentivize increased giving.
The Colorado Opportunity Scholarship Initiative will accept proposals for program grants from Oct. 9, 2014 -- Nov. 15, 2014. A grant webinar will be hosted on Wednesday, Oct. 15, 2014. Interested applicants should submit a Letter of Intent by Friday, Oct. 24, 2014. Student scholarships will be available in Phase II of the plan, beginning in 2016. More information on the Colorado Opportunity Scholarship Initiative, Program Grant eligibility and application materials can be found at www.ColoradoScholarshipInitative.org.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251657682185&pagename=CBONWrapper
