Public Statements
Hickenlooper Highlights a Bright Future for Colorado During Debate Today
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 6, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today during the Denver Metro Chamber debate, Governor John Hickenlooper emphasized that Colorado is moving up. We continue to be stronger than our neighboring states with a 42 percent decrease in unemployment, $650 million dollars in the state's budget reserve fund, and an agriculture industry now providing over $40 billion dollars annually to the economy.
During his tenure, Hickenlooper created the Colorado Innovation Network (COIN) to promote collaboration among Colorado's private, public and academic organizations, with the goal to stimulate economic growth, support innovative business activities and create new jobs. Colorado is second to none in concentrated talent making the state, and Metro Denver, a hub for innovation and entrepreneurism.
As a result of the Governor's leadership, Colorado has become the second best state for entrepreneurship and innovation, is fourth in the country for new businesses, and is the sixth best state for business and careers.
"Colorado has always been a state where people come to grow. To try out ideas and prosper. We cannot achieve these things, and create a robust future by looking backward. We must look forward." Hickenlooper said following the debate. "I believe in the power of conversation and collaboration. Coloradans are intelligent, creative, and resilient people who have the capacity to do great things. Working together is the Colorado Way."
Below are several steps taken by the Hickenlooper administration to grow the Colorado economy as a whole:
-During his first days in office, Hickenlooper created the Colorado Blueprint: He traveled throughout Colorado and talked to more than 5,000 people from across the state to create an economic development plan from the bottom up. Governor Hickenlooper asked local leaders to develop customized regional plans that the state could bring together as a unified document called the Colorado Blueprint. 'Colorado Blueprint' sets economic development goals for Hickenlooper
-Attracted New Companies to Colorado: Colorado successfully recruited corporate headquarters such as Davita, Layer3 TV, Cool Planet, and a joint-venture of Cargill, CHS, and ConAgra called Ardent Mills. He also recruited Fortune 150 giant Arrow Electronics, which is now Colorado's largest company. These companies will create thousands of new jobs in Colorado. Arrow Electronics moving HQ to Colorado
Cut Red Tape: Governor Hickenlooper launched the "Pits and Peeves" project which has reviewed more than 13,000 state regulations, resulting in more than 1,500 regulations being cut. Pits and Peeves 2.0
-Over the past few years, the Hickenlooper administration has worked with the agriculture industry to help negotiate trade barriers for agricultural exports. This growing part of industry has doubled over the past few years. In addition to promoting Colorado Proud products, the administration created a bicycle tour through the Eastern Plains to promote that part of the state, their products, people, and communities. The annual event - Pedal the Plains - takes place each September.
-Promoted Tech Development in Colorado: Governor Hickenlooper signed the bipartisan Advanced Industries Accelerator program, which invests tens of millions of dollars in promising technologies and companies. To date, 19 companies and another 19 technologies from the biomedical, advanced manufacturing, energy, electronics, and IT sectors have benefited from this program. Bill targets Colorado startups for state grants
-Promoted Entrepreneurship: Governor Hickenlooper has focused on developing Colorado as an innovative ecosystem. He started the Colorado Innovation Network (COIN), which is supporting innovators and promoting entrepreneurs. Colorado is now ranked second best place to start a business and second best for innovation and entrepreneurship. Five of the top 20 communities for tech startups in the country are in Colorado, including Boulder (#1), Ft. Collins (#2), Denver (#6), Colorado Springs (#9), and Grand Junction (#19). The 25 Best U.S. Cities for Tech Startups

Source: http://www.hickenlooperforcolorado.com/news/press/hickenlooper-highlights-a-bright-future-for-colorado-during-debate-today
