Public Statements
Miami Herald - Colorado Fracking Panel Meets for First Time
News Article
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Sept. 25, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

By Ivan Moreno
Democratic Gov. John Hickenlooper on Thursday told a group he assembled to study land-use clashes between Colorado's energy industry and homeowners that he's hopeful the suggestions they give state lawmakers can be a model for other places grappling with the issue.
The 21-member panel was part of a deal Hickenlooper brokered to get groups to drop dueling ballot measures in November that had Democrats worried about inter-party fighting and the energy industry concerned about future development.
U.S. Rep. Jared Polis, a Boulder Democrat personally affected by fracking operations, was financially backing two ballot proposals that sought to restrict the technique that blasts a mix of water, sand or gravel, and chemicals into underground rock formations to release trapped oil and gas. Two other ballot proposals favored fracking, including one that would have prevented local governments that banned the practice from receiving tax revenue generated from it.
"Despite the differences -- and I know there's a lot of difficult negotiations ahead of you all and a lot of difficult history -- I think you guys can do it," Hickenlooper told the panel, which met for the first time Thursday. Hickenlooper cited Pennsylvania, Texas and Wyoming as among the states that can look to recommendations the panel makes.
Panelists will meet several times during the coming months and issue suggestions to lawmakers next year on how to deal with property conflicts arising from fracking development near residential areas. Members include local government officials, civic leaders and representatives of the energy industry.
Hickenlooper's Republican challenger in November, Bob Beauprez, has criticized the governor for creating the panel and argues it will only lead to more regulation.
La Plata County Commissioner Gwen Lachelt, the commission's chair, said she was "really disappointed" when she first heard the citizen ballot initiatives would be dropped.
"It was a monumental effort to collect the signatures required to put these initiatives on the ballot. Taking those decisions out of the hands of the people of Colorado felt, and still feels, like a real blow to the democratic process," she said.
Lachelt spoke of phone messages she has received from constituents concerned about drilling, saying they couldn't sleep because of noise and bright lights, and that they couldn't hear each other at the dinner table.
Still, she said that for the group to be successful, "we need to focus on problem-solving and action."
"Stonewalling in pursuit of the perfect is not an option," Lachelt said.

Source: http://www.miamiherald.com/news/business/article2239895.html
