Public Statements
Lamar Ledger - Hickenlooper Praises Water Conservation
News Article
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Sept. 25, 2014
Location: Unknown

The campaign for Governor John Hickenlooper made a couple of stops in Lamar Sept. 23.
The governor toured GP Irrigated Farms and met with farmers and water experts who are leading conservation and irrigation projects in the area.
The business is a partnership that was formed with a dairy in Syracuse Kansas, which has begun an irrigated project from flooded lands to center pivots, increasing efficiency.
The conservation process was difficult and will involve 80 pivots, where the water is distributed by sprinklers and rotates around, which is big enough to cause concern in Kansas.
Kansas Governor Sam Brownback blessed the project and opposition has waned.
There is approximately 120 acres per each pivot.
IBCC water chairman John Stulp said it's difficult to expand acres because of the Colorado, Kansas water compact.
"You have to do a lot of accounting and have the same consumptive use," he said. "When there is a presumption of change, the proponents have to prove innocence in court."
Stulp said the area is much like California around Imperial Valley.
"They get water in by big canals and they put it in a pipe-manifold," he said. "That's how a lot of it gets distributed to individual farms and it's much more efficient than open canals that can seep."
He told Hickenlooper that California has a different water administration.
"The state owns a lot of the water and special districts," he said. "Nearly every farmer gets an allocation."

In comments after his tour, Hickenlooper said every conversation about water should begin with conservation and he praised the efforts on display.
"They are showing conservation can be accomplished and are being responsible, going through the water court," he said.
He addressed leakage along the Front Range and said the price of water would still go up if everything was fixed, costing a lot of money.
Hickenlooper stopped by the Lamar Community Center to offer his best wishes to the community.
"Water issues remain a serious challenge," he said. "We are working on the first statewide water plan we ever had."
In comments about El Camino Drive at the Senior Center, he offered to do what he could.
The road is incomplete and the city has encountered challenges with the Colorado Department of Transportation.
"We'll talk to the department of transportation and check it out," he said.
Councilman Ron Cook said having the governor is town was a good thing.
Liquor store owner Ken Roe said his business has thrived because of Hickenlooper's leadership.
"He hasn't let the big liquor and beer companies go to Walmart and Safeway," he said. "He helps the independent businessman."
Hickenlooper tried to create 12 jobs in the area, he said, but the commissioners voted the measure down.
"Commissioner Joe Marble said there is going to be another vote and it will be a plus," he said.
Hickenlooper offered his congratulations to the Main Street program on its second award.
"Investing on Main Street is the surest way to bring people back into the community," he said.
Hickenlooper said good progress is being made about fracking.
"The fines used to be $500 a day and now its $15,000 per day," he said. "We don't want to ban it, but you have to guarantee people their air and water will be clean as it ever was."

Source: http://www.lamarledger.com/news/ci_26605759/hickenlooper-praises-water-conservation
