Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Joins Las Animas Community Leaders and Residents to Celebrate Ft. Lyon's Historic First Year
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Sept. 23, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper joined local community leaders, elected officials and residents to highlight the success of the Fort Lyon Supportive Residential Community since opening its doors last fall.
­
A partnership between the Colorado Department of Local Affairs (DOLA), Bent County, and the Colorado Coalition for the Homeless (CCH), Fort Lyon provides housing with access to mental health and health care services, substance-abuse treatment and counseling, as well as educational and vocational training to individuals experiencing homelessness.

The 550-acre campus, which previously served as a U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs hospital, sanatorium, and minimum-security prison, now serves 221 individuals, 23 percent of whom are veterans.

"Talking with the men and women who have elected to reside here it quickly becomes clear that above all else, Fort Lyon is a place of hope," Hickenlooper said. "We applaud the efforts of those who have come together to ensure that our most vulnerable have the time, space, and services they need to achieve lasting stability and recovery."

Hickenlooper and cabinet members joined Fort Lyon Residents, Bent County Commissioners, CCH Staff, and community partners for a community celebration and conversation about the last year's progress.

Fort Lyon residents engage in more than 100 pre-employment modules including food services, facilities maintenance, grounds maintenance, housekeeping and waste water management in conjunction with their daily participation in group and individual counseling.

Seventy-one individuals participate in educational and vocational training in computer technology, construction industries, health services, and agricultural sciences at Otero Junior College or Lamar Community College.

"I wake up and I'm excited to be here," said Chris H., a resident who had been without stable housing since leaving the U.S. Marines in 1982. "I want to improve my computer skills so I can get a job. I have student loans that I'd like to start paying off."

With support from local veteran organizations, Fort Lyon's formerly homeless veterans chartered American Legion Post 9313, one of the first of its kind in the nation, and are in the process of selecting officer leadership positions.

Colorado recently joined First Lady Michelle Obama's challenge to end homelessness among veterans by 2015.

Last year's statewide Point-In-Time Survey, an annual count required by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, found 9,754 individuals experiencing homelessness on a given night in Colorado. Of these individuals, 18 percent were chronically homeless. According to the Colorado Coalition for the Homeless, on average these individuals each cost taxpayers $43,240 in emergency services annually. As the number of residents grows to the target capacity of 300, the per-person cost of Fort Lyon residents is expected to fall below $15,000.

DOLA has established nine statewide Ft. Lyon Referral Network Partners to serve not only as a referral source for the Ft. Lyon Community, but also as the local provider of reintegration services for individuals returning to their community after successfully completing the Ft. Lyon program. One feature of the re-integration plan for each participant is a link to permanent housing in the community of their choice.

"While our state has made great strides in improving services for our most vulnerable, many Colorado communities don't have the capacity to help chronically homeless individuals achieve long-term success," said Reeves Brown, executive director of DOLA. "As participants leave Fort Lyon and return to their community of choice we hope that they will be greeted with open arms. We have an incredible opportunity to show the nation and the world that Colorado is committed to taking bold and innovative steps to end homelessness."

Source:
