Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces More Than $6 Million from Department of Defense to Grow Advanced Manufacturing in Colorado
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Sept. 18, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper and the Colorado Office of Economic Development and International Trade (OEDIT) announced today the state has been awarded $6.6 million from the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) to continue to create jobs and grow small and medium sized businesses in the advanced manufacturing sector. The governor shared the news today with the participants of Denver Startup Week.
"Colorado has long been a vital contributor to the nation's defense industry," Hickenlooper said. "More recently, we have proven to be a hub for innovation with five of the top 25 metropolitan areas for startups in the country located here, and our advanced industries are thriving. This growth across all sectors, and the jobs that have come with it, has in part been aided by our public and private partnering whenever possible. This considerable DoD investment in Colorado will only enhance our reputation of innovation and job growth across the state."
The DoD program was created to offset the effects of the lower levels of spending by DoD on local economies. Colorado pursued the award as "SMART Colorado", a public-private partnership created to strengthen manufacturing by accelerating research and technology. The initiative includes OEDIT, the Colorado Advanced Manufacturing Alliance, federal labs, military installations, research institutions, community colleges and other industry partners.
The initial phase of implementation will be the creation of centers of innovation, focused on the corridor from Fort Collins through the Front Range to Pueblo. The centers (up to four as part of phase one) will provide mentoring, technical assistance and equipment necessary to help grow early stage and proof of concept businesses across the advanced manufacturing sector.
"Colorado manufacturers are highly innovative and use advanced processes to serve diverse sectors across the state - from defense, electronics and consumer products to clean energy systems, aerospace vehicles and medical devices," said Ken Lund, executive director of OEDIT. "We are grateful to our local, state and federal partners for their support of this application and continued support of Colorado's advanced industries strategies for economic growth."

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251656919785&pagename=CBONWrapper
