Public Statements
Hickenlooper Highlights Colorado's Economic Accomplishments and Resilience During Tonight's Club 20 Debate
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Sept. 6, 2014
Location: Grand Junction, CO

Tonight during the CLUB 20 debate in Grand Junction, Governor Hickenlooper focused on how Coloradans worked together to grow the economy from 40th to 4th in job creation. From Governor Hickenlooper's first day in office, his number one priority has been cutting red tape and jumpstarting Colorado's economy. During his tenure, Colorado has added more than 200,000 new jobs and helped reduce the unemployment rate from 9.1 percent to 5.3 percent.
Governor Hickenlooper offered the following comment on tonight's debate:
"It's an honor to be here in Grand Junction once again with so many friends and supporters. The resilience and work ethic of the Western Slope is critical to Colorado's comeback, which includes creating more than 200,000 new jobs and 33 consecutive months of job creation. Tonight we talked a lot about what we've been able to accomplish together, but we will not rest until that comeback is felt by every corner of the state."
Reeves Brown, former CLUB 20 Executive Director offered this comment on tonight's debate:
"I thought Governor Hickenlooper was great in the debate tonight. He differentiated himself from the Congressman. He demonstrated that he had an understanding and a respect for the West Slope and West Slope issues, and we've seen that over the years, most recently when he met with CLUB 20 folks a few months back. One of the reasons he was elected Chair of the Western Governors Association is that he knows that we do things differently in Colorado and on the Western Slope than they do in Washington, DC, and that was clear tonight. "
Despite 13 federally declared natural disasters and an economic crisis, Coloradans have worked together to achieve 33 consecutive months of job creation. Below are concrete examples of the steps taken by the Hickenlooper administration to achieve these results.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.hickenlooperforcolorado.com/news/press/hickenlooper-highlights-colorados-economic-accomplishments-and-resilience-during-tonights-club-20-debate
