Public Statements
Denver Post - Hickenlooper, Beauprez Square Off in First of Six Debates
News Article
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Sept. 6, 2014
Location: Grand Junction, CO

By Joey Bunch
A feisty Gov. John Hickenlooper, known for his friendly demeanor, fired at his Republican challenger, Bob Beauprez, in their first debate at Saturday's Club 20 event here.
Hickenlooper controlled portions of the debate, noting his willingness to work out compromises while arguing that Beauprez, a former congressman, preferred the gridlocked "Washington way."
"Together is the Colorado way," Hickenlooper said, after an hour of fending off Beauprez's arguments that he ceded leadership to a variety of sources on issues including fracking, the death sentence of Nathan Dunlap and control of the state's federal lands.
Beauprez challenged the governor to "stand up to Washington," as he vowed to cut regulations.
The GOP nominee promised a different direction if he is elected, including building more water storage, exercising more rights to federal lands and cutting regulations, especially on energy development.
The candidates staked out their positions on sharing Colorado's water with competing interests, managing budget deficits, serving the state's aging population, school funding, fracking, rural and metro interests, and Obamacare.
Beauprez hammered on one of Hickenlooper's perceived strengths -- a rebounding economy -- by citing statistics that painted a dimmer picture than those Hickenlooper has cited for months, including the nation's fastest-growing economy.
"We've got a long way to go, and we're better than this," Beauprez said.
While Beauprez said he would push for more reservoirs, Hickenlooper said that would take decades.
He said the last "water grab" from the Western Slope was the failed 2003 ballot measure Referendum A, which he noted Beauprez supported.
Beauprez said Hickenlooper had not grown the state's economy as much as the size of its government. He recited his campaign refrain about his disdain for regulations.
"On Day One, I will freeze non-essential regulations," he vowed.
Beauprez also criticized Hickenlooper's support for Obamacare.
The affable governor responded with uncharacteristically sharp elbows.
"Maybe you should be running for Congress if you want to target federal issues," Hickenlooper said.
On a question about rural-metro conflicts, Beauprez extended the testy exchange.
He said he had heard people around the state ask whether Hickenlooper realizes he's no longer mayor of Denver.
On oil and gas and local control, Hickenlooper noted his brokerage of a deal for compromise with energy development companies and those concerned about the environmental impacts near homes, creating a commission to work on the issue.
"Both sides have a right here," Hickenlooper said.
Beauprez accused the governor of standing in the way of jobs at a time when energy development has never been safer or more efficient.
"Other states are more open for energy development, and that's where the jobs are going," he said.
On fracking and Dunlap's execution, a decision Hickenlooper said he would leave for the next governor, Beauprez said Hickenlooper was "kicking the can down the road."
Hickenlooper said his position on the death penalty -- one that has shifted from for to against in the last four years -- is now firm.
"My opinion is still that the government shouldn't be in the business of taking people's lives," Hickenlooper said.
Beauprez said he asked Hickenlooper for a yes or no answer, and "what I got was a firm maybe."
The debate at Grand Junction's Two Rivers Convention Center was sponsored by Club 20, the influential advocacy group that for 61 years has promoted the interest of Colorado's Western Slope counties.

Source: http://www.denverpost.com/election2014/ci_26483476/hickenlooper-beauprez-square-off-first-11-debates
