Public Statements
Hickenlooper Releases Positive Video in Response to Negative Ad Launched by Republican Governors Association
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Aug. 19, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, just one day after Colorado officially marked 33 straight months of job creation and our lowest unemployment levels since 2008, the Republican Governors Association launched misleading negative TV attack ads against John Hickenlooper. Hickenlooper, who has vowed to run only positive campaigns throughout his career, responded by releasing a positive video that recognizes the hard work and success that Coloradans have had in overcoming tough economic conditions and 13 federally declared natural disasters to create an economy that was just ranked #1 in the country by Business Insider. (Note: When this video was filmed, Colorado's unemployment rate was at 5.5 percent. It has since dropped to 5.3 percent).
Just yesterday, the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment reported more positive news on Colorado's employment situation. Our economy continues to strengthen as over 5,500 non-farm payroll jobs were added in the month of July, bringing the total Colorado employment numbers to 2,452,200.
Under Governor Hickenlooper's leadership, Colorado has gone from 9.1 percent unemployment down to 5.3 percent, dropping two tenths of a percentage point in the month of July. Additionally, July marked the 33rd consecutive month of job growth in Colorado and marked the lowest unemployment rate in the state since October of 2008.
Hickenlooper offered the following message on Colorado and its economy today:

"Four years ago we promised to run a positive campaign, and we did. We took the same approach across Colorado. We promised to focus on the economy and we did right away. Colorado has improved from 40th to 4th in the nation for job creation. And unemployment is down from 9.1 percent to 5.3 percent. In September 2013 when floods devastated our communities, we promised to get all roads and bridges open by December 1st, and we did before Thanksgiving. Keeping promises, working together, delivering results -- that's how we move Colorado up"

Source: http://www.hickenlooperforcolorado.com/news/press/hickenlooper-releases-positive-video-in-response-to-negative-ad-launched-by-republican-governors-association
