Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces $2.29 Million in Grants for Stream Recovery Projects
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Aug. 8, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

Moving quickly to keep Colorado's long-term recovery on pace, Gov. John Hickenlooper today announced grants totaling $2.29 million for 19 new stream recovery projects in Boulder, Larimer, Weld, and Jefferson counties, less than three months after the program was created.
"Quickly and strategically rehabilitating streams damaged by the flood is critical for many reasons; most notably so that we are prepared to endure any future surprises Mother Nature might throw our way," said Hickenlooper. "We are grateful to the Colorado Water Conservation Board; to Senators Jeanne Nicholson and Scott Renfroe and Representatives Mike Foote and Jerry Sonnenberg, for working with us to expeditiously get these resources where they are so needed."
Repairing the state's streams and watersheds is a high priority because it reduces future flood risk, and helps restore stream banks, wildlife habitats, agricultural areas and recreational opportunities.
The flooding - which impacted 24 counties - triggered nine small dam failures, damaged or destroyed nearly 225 water-diversion structures, damaged an estimated 32,000 acres of croplands and swept away $540,000 in state-owned stream-gauge equipment. During the floods, many northern Colorado waterways experienced 100-year or 500-year floods.
The grant program, created with Senate Bill 14-179, will reimburse up to 50 percent of eligible expenses used for cleaning up debris or restoring watersheds. The Colorado Water Conservation Board (CWCB) approved the grants on July 16.
The legislation authorizes payments to private entities and individuals whose property was affected by the floods as well as local governments, watershed coalitions, and other private non-profit entities who are performing restoration activities.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251656107966&pagename=CBONWrapper
