Public Statements
Governor Hickenlooper Receives Endorsement of Colorado Professional Firefighters Today in Colorado Springs
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Aug. 8, 2014
Location: Colorado Springs, CO

This morning at the IAFF Fallen Firefighter Memorial in Colorado Springs, Governor Hickenlooper participated in a ceremony where he addressed Colorado's first responders and received the official endorsement of the Colorado Professional Fire Fighters (CPFF).
After visiting the memorial, Governor Hickenlooper toured several fire stations where he learned about the region's new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) systems. SCBA's are compressed air breathing apparatuses worn by rescue workers to provide breathable air under extreme/life threatening circumstances.
Colorado Professional Fire Fighters President Mike Rogers offered the following comment today on the endorsement of Governor Hickenlooper:
"The Colorado Professional Firefighters appreciates the support that Governor Hickenlooper has given firefighters across the state. He has shown an awareness of the needs of our industry, and has been an effective leader during the many natural disasters and crises that have happened during his watch. We are proud to give him our endorsement today."
Over the past 4 years, the Hickenlooper Administration has worked closely with Colorado's emergency services/first responder community to ensure that they have the resources they need to protect Colorado homes and families under threat of fire and other natural disasters.
When asked about receiving the endorsement of the Colorado Professional Fire Fighters, the Governor offered the following comment:
"It's an honor to be here today to receive this support from the Colorado Professional Firefighters. In the past few years, our state has been hit with 13 federally declared natural disasters, and Coloradans have weathered historic floods and fires with courage, resilience and incredible resolve. Colorado's firefighters are heroes who walk among us, and I'm honored to stand with them and receive their support here today."

Source: http://www.hickenlooperforcolorado.com/news/press/governor-hickenlooper-receives-endorsement-of-colorado-professional-firefighters-today-in-colorado-springs
