Public Statements
Estes Park Trail Gazette - Governor Lauds Estes Park Efforts
News Article
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Aug. 5, 2014
Location: Unknown

By John Cordsen
Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper had more than words when he visited Estes Park on July 1. He delivered news that the Estes Valley Recreation and Park District had been awarded an additional $360,000 for repairs.
The announcement was made to a large gathering of supporters at the Beaver Meadows Visitor Center of Rocky Mountain National Park. The governor spoke for a little over six minutes. He said Estes Park was a symbol of how communities should respond to adversity.
"Estes Park is a symbol for the rest of the state," said Gov. Hickenlooper. "What you've been through, the way you've responded to it, you just don't quit. You don't know the meaning of the word."
Gov . Hickenlooper applauded the way he said Estes Park residents banded together to get past last September's floods and on the road to recovery.
"That's what the state has to do," he said. "Your ability to do that really becomes an inspiration to the state of Colorado."
The governor noted the funds Estes Park has been awarded to help with projects and flood recovery. He said the community has been awarded approximately $5.6 million in community development block grants. Highlights of funding awards include $1.8 million in funding for the Falcon Ridge project for the creation of multi family housing; $1.2 for hazard mitigation; $150,000 to Visit Estes Park to help that organization in its marketing efforts and almost $80,000 for the development of a Fish Creek Master plan.
He also noted that the state has received applications from 79 local businesses for $3.9 million in disaster recovery grants and loans.
"This is how you rebuild," said Hickenlooper. "It is a combination of looking at your businesses and making sure that they are going to do well, even as you build infrastructure."

Source: http://www.eptrail.com/estes-park-news/ci_26279894/governor-lauds-estes-park-efforts
