Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Additional $12 Million for Wastewater and Drinking Water Systems with Flood Recovery Projects
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Aug. 1, 2014
Location: Denver, CO

Representing his continued commitment to restoring Colorado's world-class water systems, Gov. John Hickenlooper today announced a second round of grant funding aimed at rebuilding, improving and protecting Colorado's water quality and treatment infrastructure.

Sixteen community drinking water and wastewater systems impacted by the September 2013 flooding will receive $12 million to fund planning, design, construction, improvement, renovation or reconstruction of systems that were damaged or destroyed as a result of the floods. Part of the funding will go to four counties (Boulder, Jefferson, Larimer and Weld) to help them repair or replace private, non-community septic systems.

"When the flooding receded, we said we would rebuild a better, more resilient Colorado. This funding will help address not just short-term needs but also help communities design and rebuild with the long-term in mind," said Gov. Hickenlooper. "It's another boost to spur repairs and improvements in areas that need it most."

In Jamestown, this funding will provide critical support in rebuilding service lines to individual residences, allowing displaced families to return to their homes. In the City of Evans, the funding allows for the planning and design of a new facility that will have expanded capacity for residents while decreasing vulnerability from future flood events.
This funding is in addition to the $14.7 million awarded last year to help the state address nutrients in Colorado's rivers, streams and lakes. High levels of nutrients, such as nitrogen and phosphorus, can use up valuable oxygen and choke aquatic life.
These grants are part of the governor's plan to ensure Coloradans have a reliable infrastructure that ensures safe, clean water for future generations.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251655891888&pagename=CBONWrapper
