Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Commends Investment for Permanent Supportive Housing
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 3, 2016
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper today commended state agencies and partners for their second year of significant investment in providing permanent supportive housing for homeless and special needs populations across Colorado.
The Department of Local Affairs (DOLA) will award 134 housing choice vouchers, and $7.1 million in Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) will be awarded from Colorado Housing and Finance Authority (CHFA) in 2016 to support the creation of 246 units of Permanent Supportive Housing for individuals and families experiencing homelessness or with severe special needs in Boulder, Cañon City, Colorado Springs, Denver, Eagle County, Longmont and Towaoc on the Ute Mountain Ute Reservation.
Each project represents a major milestone in the long-standing collaboration between the Governor's Office, DOLA and CHFA to increase access to high-quality supportive housing for vulnerable populations with significant barriers to housing stability.
"Whether it's due to the loss of a job, high housing costs, family break-up or illness, losing a home can happen to anyone. By combining affordable housing and supportive services, each of these dynamic projects resolves homelessness, improves health outcomes, and reduces the use of publicly-funded crisis services including shelters, hospitals, psychiatric centers, jail, and prisons," said Gov. Hickenlooper.
Last month, CHFA announced the most recent recipients of federal LIHTC, which is used to support the development and preservation of affordable rental housing.
Among the 13 LIHTC award recipients, the following three are Permanent Supportive Housing developments: Attention Homes in Boulder, Greenway Flats in Colorado Springs and Journey Home in Cañon City. In a previous LIHTC award round this year, three other Permanent Supportive Housing developments were awarded state and federal LIHTC allocations: Arroyo Village & Lowry Family Housing in Denver and Suites Supportive Housing in Longmont,.

Source:
