Public Statements
Issue Position: Sportsmen and Sportswomen
Issue Position
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Throughout my career on both sides of Colorado's great Continental Divide, I have been witness to and understand that open lands in our state are what make Colorado so spectacular, and are a large reason so many of us choose to live and visit the state.
The wild places in Colorado contain gold medal stretches of a number of rivers, and vast tracks of wildlife habitat home to a number of species of big and small game. Colorado provides ample angling, hunting, and wildlife-viewing opportunities, which are a large part of our state's history and heritage, and continues to provide a major economic boost to the state.
My work as a geologist on the Western Slope and my time as the mayor of Denver have helped me understand how interconnected Colorado is-pollution doesn't stop at the city's edge, and the Front Range's water consumption has a direct correlation with watersheds and habitats across the state. The balance of energy development with the preservation of Colorado's best habitat are vital in sustaining sportsmen and women's ways of life, and all of the social and economic benefit that comes with that life. That is why, as mayor I have:
Issued the Hunting and Fishing Day Proclamation.
Secured a DOE grant of $210,000 for the city of Denver to support Local Energy Assurance Planning and responsible energy development.
Planted over 196,000 trees as part of the Mile High Million initiative.
Worked to ensure water-use reduction through Greenprint Denver and the Better Denver Bond initiatives.
Endorsed the Hayman Restoration Partnership in order to maintain water quality throughout Colorado, year-round recreational opportunities, and the prosperity of our state.
Met with the Denver Chapter of Colorado Trout Unlimited regarding their public/private partnership that is the Urban South Platte Project.
Mother Nature Network just released the "Top 10 Cities for New Grads Seeking Green Jobs." Denver ranked #2 - right behind San Francisco and in front of New York.
Hunting, angling, and wildlife watching account for close to 34,000 jobs in Colorado's economy and generate $3 billion annually. Hunting and fishing traditions are strong in Colorado, and now, more than ever, represent a very important economic driver for our state. That is why, as your next Governor, I will:
Work to increase recreational shooting opportunities on public lands.
Work to protect and provide access and expand opportunities to hunt and fish.
Ensure the economic development of the hunting and fishing industry.
Support and enhance public/private partnerships in wildlife management, and related hunting and fishing opportunities.
Continue to fight for healthy habitats, cleaner water, sustained wildlife corridors, and the preservation of winter ranges.
Work to keep Colorado wild.

Source: http://www.hickenlooperforcolorado.com/issues?id=0019
