Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Project to Expand High-Speed Internet in Colorado Schools
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Sept. 21, 2016
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today a new initiative to bring high-speed internet to schools across Colorado. Kids Link Colorado is a partnership between the Office of the Governor, the Governor's Office of Information Technology and EducationSuperHighway, the nation's leading nonprofit focused on upgrading internet access in every public school classroom in America.
"A student in Crested Butte should have access to the same online resources as a student in downtown Denver," said Hickenlooper. "We are grateful to all of our partners including EducationSuperHighway who is donating services. This is a win for students, their families, our educators, and our state."
Beginning this month, partners will work with the Colorado Department of Education, local boards, districts and school leaders to understand regional challenges and opportunities. The program will identify schools where improved broadband access is needed, as well as strategies to increase access and affordability. EducationSuperHighway will support the partners to increase connectivity so that public school districts can take full advantage of federal E-rate dollars.
"We have partnered with governor offices all across the country in their efforts to get high-speed internet into more schools," said Evan Marwell, CEO and Founder of EducationSuperHighway. "It's about ensuring every student, everywhere, has the basic and fundamental opportunity to learn. We applaud Gov. Hickenlooper for his leadership of this project, and look forward to working with school district leaders across the state to help get the global world of education into more classrooms all across Colorado. Every student should learn at peak speed. This project is going to make that possible for all Colorado students."
Over the next year, the partnership will release a connectivity report for the state based on E-rate data, stakeholder interviews, and additional information provided by the State. The report will recommend strategies to achieve our connectivity goals.

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-announces-project-expand-high-speed-internet-colorado-schools
