Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces 44 Statewide Transportation Projects for RAMP Program
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 17, 2013
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper and the Colorado Department of Transportation Executive Director Don Hunt today announced 44 partnership projects as part of the Responsible Acceleration of Maintenance and Partnerships (RAMP) program totaling $580 million to maximize and expand the statewide transportation system. The RAMP program was created in December 2012 as a new approach to budgeting and planning to accelerate the completion of transportation projects.

"The innovative RAMP program will allow us to make critical improvements to our state's transportation system," Hickenlooper said. "These transportation improvements will increase the safety and access of our roadways. Also, these projects will boost our economy through construction job growth and the improvements to our state's transportation system."

The RAMP program has also identified $66 million in operations projects throughout the state. Combined with an additional $800 million dedicated to statewide asset management projects to maintain the system, RAMP will result in approximately $300 million per year increase in project construction for five years, an increase of 50 percent. RAMP's impact is significant for the state's economy, as every $1.5 million spent on transportation projects sustains or creates 10.55 jobs.

Under the RAMP program, the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) will fund multi-year projects based on year of expenditure, rather than saving for the full amount of a project before construction begins. This will match project expenditures with available revenues and allow CDOT to fund additional transportation projects over the next five years. CDOT will continue moving forward the RAMP program in addition to the flood recovery efforts and will work with counties impacted by the flooding to determine the best time for project implementation.

"The local and private sector response to this program has been extraordinary, with CDOT receiving a total of 166 applications requesting more than $1.54 billion, over 2 times the total funding available," said Hunt. "While it demonstrates the continued transportation needs we have statewide, we were also able to extend the reach of our RAMP funds because our local partners also contributed $118 million to these projects and we hope to leverage more from the private sector.

In summary, the 44 partnership project elements include:
238 Lane miles improved
89 Lane miles added
26 Lane miles transferred from state system
116 Shoulder miles improved/added
13 Rehabilitated bridges
5 New wildlife passes
1 New pedestrian bridge
9 Reconstructed interchanges
4 "Main Street" highway projects
16 Transit/bicycle/pedestrian projects

Additionally, many of these projects will result in better safety conditions and reduce accidents. For example, the Pueblo I-25 project will reduce accidents by 65 percent in that area and the SH 9 project in Grand County will dramatically reduce vehicle and wildlife collisions. Improved travel times are another outcome of many of the projects, for instance, the proposed interchange reconstruction at I-25 and Arapahoe will improvement travel times up to 50 percent in some directions.

For updated information visit http://www.coloradodot.info/programs/RAMP.

Source:
