Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper and Oklahoma Gov. Fallin applaud General Motors introduction of a CNG sedan
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 16, 2013
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper joined Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin today to thank General Motors Company for developing the new Chevrolet Impala bi-fuel sedan that uses gasoline and compressed natural gas (CNG).

In 2012, Hickenlooper and Fallin visited Detroit to encourage auto manufacturers to develop more functional and affordable CNG vehicles. They presented the automakers with a Memorandum of Understanding representing 15 governors.

"This is a great step toward increasing the number of CNG cars on the road and reducing our nation's dependence on foreign oil," Hickenlooper said. "We thank GM for developing a clean and practical CNG sedan. These types of developments will help Colorado continue its commitment to natural gas vehicles, enhance our country's energy security, protect our environment and our economy."

"It's great news that GM is going to build a full-size sedan for retail and fleet customers that operates on either gasoline or CNG," Fallin said. "By transitioning state fleets to CNG cars, Oklahoma taxpayers stand to save thousands of dollars per vehicle on fuel costs. In Oklahoma we now have well over 300 CNG cars and trucks in our state fleet. Private sector consumers are also realizing they stand to benefit from similar savings with CNG vehicles."

The states involved in last year's CNG vehicle solicitation have more than 17,000 mid- and full-sized sedans in their fleets, including 1,200 vehicles in Colorado's fleet. Mid- and full-sized sedans represented the largest category of vehicles without an available natural gas model. GM's introduction of a full-size CNG sedan responds directly to requests of state fleets to provide a vehicle of this size.

This vehicle may be a competitive option for Colorado's state fleet because of its fuel savings and lifetime costs. When the car is available, the state of Colorado will follow procurement policies to evaluate purchasing this car for the state fleet.

The new bi-fuel Chevrolet Impala will offer 150 miles of natural gas range while providing full gasoline capability to ensure the vehicles can travel all over the state. GM's new Chevrolet Impala will be available in summer 2014. For more information, visit www.chevrolet.com.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251647092712&pagename=CBONWrapper
