Public Statements
Rock Legend John Fogerty And Colorado's Own Big Head Todd & The Monsters To Give Free Tribute Concert For Colorado Remembers 9/11
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Aug. 18, 2016
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper and Mayor Michael B. Hancock will host Colorado Remembers 9/11 to commemorate the 15th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. The event will pay respect to lives lost and honor first responders and service men and women.
The free tribute concert featuring John Fogerty and Big Head Todd & The Monsters will follow the 15th anniversary ceremony that will include a procession led by the Colorado public safety community and the presentation of honors to include bell tolls and the playing of Taps. Steel recovered from the World Trade Center also will be on display for the public to pay their respects. The free tribute concert will recognize America's heroes and celebrate our freedoms.
Colorado Remembers 9/11 will take place Sunday, September 11, 2016 starting at 1:00 p.m. in Civic Center Park and is presented in partnership with The Denver Post, the Counterterrorism Education Learning Lab (CELL), AEG Live Rocky Mountains, CBS Denver and 103.5 The Fox.
"As we remember those who lost their lives, we also salute the brave first responders and service men and women who work to keep our country safe," said Hickenlooper. "This meaningful anniversary allows us to pay tribute and show our respect. We are so grateful to John Fogerty, one of the greatest American rock legends of all time, as well as Colorado's own Big Head Todd & The Monsters for helping us unite on this day with a free tribute concert."
"Our country's courage and unity has carried us through our darkest hours, from the events of 9/11 to the recent tragedies across the nation," said Mayor Michael B. Hancock. "Colorado Remembers 9/11 is a time when we can come together and celebrate our country's will to prevail."
"In the aftermath of 9/11, music played a significant role in uniting and healing our country, and we continue that tradition with Colorado Remembers 9/11," said Melanie Pearlman, executive director of the CELL. "When we come together as a community, we triumph in the face of tragedy. This commemoration will help us not only remember, but also demonstrate our country's spirit of resilience."

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/governor/news/rock-legend-john-fogerty-and-colorado%E2%80%99s-own-big-head-todd-monsters-give-free-tribute-concert
