Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Unveils New Health Report for Colorado
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: May 6, 2013
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today "The State of Health: Colorado's Commitment to Become the Healthiest State," a plan to make Colorado the healthiest state. The plan will create a comprehensive and person-centered statewide system to address a broad range of health needs, deliver the best care at the best value and help Coloradans achieve the best health possible.

"We will build on Colorado's unique strengths -- including our strong health economy and infrastructure and our dedication to collaboration and innovation -- to become the healthiest state," Hickenlooper said.

The plan reflects input from stakeholders including healthcare providers, advocates, lawmakers, insurance companies and foundations. The plan focuses on these efforts:

Promote Prevention & Wellness: Five initiatives to help Coloradans stay healthy and become healthier, including efforts to prevent more than 150,000 Coloradans from becoming obese, support improved mental health and better oral health, reduce substance abuse, and encourage wellness among state employees.
Expand Coverage, Access & Capacity: Three initiatives to ensure Coloradans can access care at the right time and the right place, including efforts to reduce Colorado's uninsured population by more than 520,000, strengthen Colorado's health workforce and improve access to primary care.
Improve Health System Integration & Quality: Four initiatives that eliminate barriers to better care and improve our ability to work effectively to ensure person-centered care, including major expansions to patient-centered medical homes, facilitating better access to state information and services, integrating physical and behavioral health, and improved long-term services and supports for Colorado's aging and disabled populations.
Enhance Value & Strengthening Sustainability: Three initiatives that promise to redesign financial incentives, refocusing them on value, not volume. These include $280 million in cost savings to Colorado Medicaid, payment reform across the private and public sectors, and investments in health information technology.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251642279378&pagename=CBONWrapper
