Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Creates Ludlow Centennial Commemoration Commission
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: April 19, 2013
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper today signed an Executive Order creating the Ludlow Centennial Commemoration Commission. The commission will raise awareness of the events known as the Ludlow Massacre, which happened on April 20, 1914, to commemorate the 100-year anniversary of these tragic events.

"The commission shall engage in efforts to raise awareness of the tragedy at Ludlow and the events surrounding it; to explore the themes that underscore the Ludlow Massacre and the Colorado Coalfield War, including: economy, immigration, labor, energy, culture, geography, geology, and violence. In addition, the commission shall examine how this localized history impacted national and international labor relations and energy production, and continues to have modern-day relevance; and to make available the historical and archaeological resources from the events of 1913-1914. Also, to expand community outreach so that the stories of the individuals involved in these incidents can be heard and finally to reconcile the past and reflect on its relationship to the State of Colorado and the United States today," the Executive Order states.

The commission members include:

Thomas George Andrews of Denver, to serve as a representative of the University of Colorado.
Robert D. Butero of Trinidad, to serve as a representative of the United Mine Workers of America.
William J. Convery III of Englewood, to serve as a representative of History Colorado.
Dawn Marie DiPrince of Pueblo, to serve as a representative of El Pueblo History Museum, History Colorado.
Karin Tonya Larkin of Colorado Springs, to serve as a representative of the University of Colorado, Colorado Springs.
Victoria Ann Miller of Pueblo, to serve as a representative of the Bessemer Historical Society.
Fawn-Amber Montoya of Pueblo, to serve as a representative of Colorado State University-Pueblo.
Adam Aaron Morgan of Colorado Springs, to serve as a representative of the Colorado National Guard.
Jonathan Hugo Rees of Pueblo, to serve as a representative of Colorado State University-Pueblo.
Dean J. Saitta of Denver, to serve as a representative of the University of Denver.
Maria Sanchez-Tucker of Pueblo, to serve as a representative of the Pueblo City-County Library District.
Josephine A. Jones of Centennial, to serve as a representative of Colorado Humanities.

In September of 1913, the Great Coalfield War began when striking miners were evicted by the Colorado Fuel & Iron Company (CF&I) from their company-owned homes and moved into tents along the Colorado plains.

At the height of this conflict, on the morning of April 20, 1914, a skirmish broke out between striking miners and the Colorado National Guard. This event, labeled the Ludlow Massacre, ended with the death of more than 20 people, which included a National Guard soldier, miners and their wives and children.

The death of children at the Ludlow Tent Colony thrust the Coalfield War into the media spotlight, with national scrutiny focused on the Rockefellers, who were majority shareholders in CF&I. In the aftermath of this tragedy, the Rockefellers and CF&I developed an employee representation plan that transformed industrial worker-company relations.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251641764396&pagename=CBONWrapper
