Public Statements
Jeff Ackermann Named Director of Colorado Energy Office
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: March 19, 2013
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today that Jeff Ackermann will be the Director of the Colorado Energy Office.

Ackermann currently leads the research efforts at the Colorado Public Utilities Commission, focusing on issues ranging from electric system planning to the effective use of energy efficiency and renewable energy.

"Colorado is leading the nation in promoting energy efficiency and developing domestic energy resources from natural gas to wind to solar," Hickenlooper said. "Jeff Ackermann is a welcome addition to our team and will help continue efforts to expand our state's energy industry, create jobs and grow the economy."

Ackermann, who lives in Denver, established a research team for monitoring, analyzing and reporting on emerging trends and developments in Colorado's energy sector for the Public Utilities Commission. In his previous role at the Commission, he assisted in creating and integrating electric and gas Demand-Side Management (DSM) into the business practices of Colorado's energy utilities.

"The Colorado Energy Office has a compelling mission, working at the crossroads of the energy economy and economic development," Ackermann said. "I am honored to join the Hickenlooper team and bring my skills and experience to advance Colorado's globally recognized efforts related to energy."

Prior to the working for the PUC, Ackermann was manager of the state's low-income DSM programs at the state's energy office. He provided leadership in this area twice in his career, from 2004-2007 and 1984-1995, at which time he played an integral role in negotiating a state-utility partnership that has been serving low-income households since 1993.

Ackermann has worked in the philanthropic world, promoting various advocacy strategies for low-income households. He was a product developer at Public Service Company of Colorado, where he was the team lead for the design, development and implementation of Windsource, the nation's most successful customer-driven renewable energy development.

Ackermann earned a bachelor's degree from Albion College and a master's degree in Nonprofit Management from Regis University.

Ackermann will start on April 1, 2013.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251640704898&pagename=CBONWrapper
