Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Signs Compact to Fight Opioid Addiction
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: July 14, 2016
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper this week joined fellow governors to sign a compact to fight opioid addiction during the National Governors Association Summer Meeting. This compact builds on the long-standing commitment to collectively fight the opioid crisis.
"Colorado has made important strides to combat the prescription drug misuse and abuse that affects a significant percentage of Coloradans across the state," said Hickenlooper. "We have more to do. I look forward to continuing this work with my fellow governors on a national level."
Highlights of the compact include:
Taking steps to reduce inappropriate opioid prescribing,
Leading efforts to change the nation's understanding of opioids and addiction,
Taking actions to ensure a pathway to recovery for individuals with addiction.
Over the last four years, Colorado has worked on coordinated efforts through the Colorado Consortium to Reduce Prescription Drug Abuse to find ways to help communities that are particularly hard hit with drug abuse. In 2015, Hickenlooper launched the public awareness campaign "Take Meds Seriously" to address the growing problem of prescription drug abuse.
Proper disposal of prescription medications is a critical part of the solution to this public health problem. The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) is expanding the Colorado Household Medication Take-Back Program into a sustainable, statewide network. Its goal is to have medication drop-off sites such as law enforcement agencies, retail pharmacies, hospitals and clinics in every county. When not disposed of safely, prescription medications can be stolen and misused or resold, fueling the addiction problem.
"Prescriptive and illicit opioid abuse are significant public health concerns in Colorado," said Dr. Larry Wolk, executive director and chief medical officer at CDPHE. "The governor's support of this national compact underscores our Colorado priorities of improving the education about, treatment of and recovery from opioid addiction."

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-signs-compact-fight-opioid-addiction
