Public Statements
Open burning, Private Use of Fireworks Banned in Colorado
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: June 14, 2012
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper today signed an Executive Order that bans open burning and private use of fireworks throughout Colorado because of very dry conditions and high fire danger.

The ban does not apply to campfires in constructed, permanent fire pits or fire grates within developed camp and picnic grounds or recreation sites; liquid-fueled or gas-fueled stoves; fireplaces contained within buildings; charcoal grills at private residences; or specific prescribed or controlled burns for agricultural or irrigation purposes.

Commercial, professional and municipal fireworks displays are allowed when written approval has been granted by the sheriff of the county in which the fireworks display is to occur.

"We can't completely eliminate the threat of wildfire because there's no way to control Mother Nature," Hickenlooper said. "But we can take steps to reduce the risks of more wildfires starting. This ban is a necessary step to help protect people, property and the beautiful state we live in."

Most Colorado counties have already adopted fire bans. At least 44 of the state's 64 counties are now listed with "high," "very high" or "extreme" wildfire danger. The wildfire danger and individual restrictions for every Colorado county can be found at www.colorado.gov.

The governor's Executive Order is not intended to supersede more comprehensive or inclusive open burning restrictions that have been or may be established by Colorado counties, municipalities and/or other political subdivisions of the state. Where permitted by law, counties and other local governments may ban any or all of the open burning exemptions listed in the order when local officials determine that a more restrictive ban is appropriate and warranted given fire danger conditions in their localities.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251624537815&pagename=CBONWrapper
