Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Names Pam Patton to PUC
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: June 13, 2012
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper today appointed Pam Patton to the Colorado Public Utilities Commission.

Patton, of Bayfield, has served on the La Plata Electric Association (LPEA) board since 2000 and is a past board president and the current board secretary. She serves on LPEA's Administration and External Organizations & Issues Committees.

"Pam has demonstrated the ability to work with wildly different groups of people throughout her career," Hickenlooper said. "She also hails from one of the most beautiful parts of Colorado, one that is rich in traditional energy exploration. Pam understands firsthand the important balance between promoting innovation and protecting Colorado's beautiful landscapes."

Patton served for 20 years in the U.S. Navy before returning to southwest Colorado, where she grew up on a sheep farm in La Plata County.

"This is truly a great opportunity to serve the public in my home state," Patton said. "I look forward to bringing my telecommunications and electric utility experience, work ethic and concern for the environment to the commission."

Patton is a Credentialed Cooperative Director and has a Cooperative Board Leadership certificate from the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association. She also serves on the boards of FastTrack Communications Inc. and the LPEA Round Up Foundation. She is active in a number of community service organizations in La Plata County and southwest Colorado, including the League of Women Voters and the Salvation Army Extension Unit.

Patton was awarded the Barbara Conrad Leadership Award by Leadership La Plata in 2001. She was honored to receive the Morley Ballantine Award for business leadership from the Durango Area Chamber of Commerce in 2008. She and her husband have placed an open space easement on their home and organic garden north of Bayfield.

Patton earned a bachelor's degree from Fort Lewis College and a master's degree from the University of Southern California.

Patton's appointment is effective June 21 and she will be sworn in June 25. Her appointment must be confirmed by the Colorado Senate in the next legislative session.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251624449208&pagename=CBONWrapper
