Public Statements
New Benefits Application Will Increase Efficiency and Delivery of State Services
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Nov. 21, 2011
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper today unveiled a new streamlined application for public benefits, including food and cash assistance and Medicaid. The eight-page application, reduced from 26 pages, is available online and will increase the efficiency and delivery of state services.
"The new benefits application is the result of collaborating with multiple program partners to simply find a better way of doing business. The application will help to streamline operations statewide," Hickenlooper said. "It is part of our continued commitment to increase the state's ability to deliver the most efficient and effective customer service."
The state Departments of Human Services and Health Care Policy and Financing worked closely with county and federal public assistance professionals, community advocates and program clients to redesign the application. The streamlined application is the result of 10 months of the working group's efforts to improve the application process.
The new application is the latest innovation on the part of the State and county departments to increase efficiency and delivery of state services. Since January:
* The Governor's Office of Information Technology introduced PEAK, the Program Eligibility Assistance Kit, to allow applicants to determine eligibility, apply online and monitor their public assistance benefits.
* Counties have redesigned their business processes to make applying for benefits more efficient for the clients, allowing the State to better meet timely processing guidelines.
"The changes this year allow Coloradans in very difficult situations to get the help they need to care for their families in a way that doesn't compound the pressures they already face," said Lynn Johnson, director of the Jefferson County Department of Human Services.
Community advocates for people in need have been given wide access and training on the new streamlined applications. For more information on benefits and the new application visit www.colorado.gov/hcpf or www.colorado.gov/cdhs.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251610018798&pagename=CBONWrapper
