Public Statements
Department of Human Services Finds Nearly 850 Rules to Repeal and More than 2,000 More to Revise
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Sept. 8, 2011
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today the Colorado Department of Human Services is poised to recommend the repeal of nearly 850 rules that are unnecessary or outdated and the revision of another 2,000 rules.
"Our commitment to cutting red tape and finding appropriate levels of regulation is no secret," Hickenlooper said. "These proposed changes will help streamline operations in the Department of Human Services. Other state agencies are going through similar reviews of their rules as we work together to make state government more effective and efficient."
The recommendations follow a comprehensive review of more than 4,300 rules by 63 Human Services employees over the past several months. The effort was the most extensive rule review ever undertaken by the Department of Human Services, which regulates child care centers, foster homes, child protection services, mental health programs, services for individuals with disabilities and senior services.
"At the heart of this review are the people we serve every day to help provide the help they need," said CDHS Executive Director Reggie Bicha. "These rule repeals and revisions will allow us to better serve the people of Colorado."
Human Services employees received special training to review agency rules for clarity, necessity and conciseness and were directed to recommend for repeal or revision those rules found to be duplicative, inconsistent or burdensome. The same scrutiny will be applied to proposed rules for child care centers that are currently working through a public input process.
The department will recommend to the State Human Services Board the repeal of 841 rules and the revision of an additional 2,116.
Some of the rules recommended for repeal or revision are:
* Six rules concerning the operation of the County Veterans Service Officer Program will be repealed as this program was moved by statute to the Department of Veterans and Military Affairs in 2002.
* A rule concerning drug precursors will be repealed because its statutory foundation was repealed in 1992.
* Rules for the Colorado Refugee Services Program will be revised to more accurately state the categories of individuals eligible for refugee services and the section of federal law that creates the eligibility.
All of the recommendations must now be presented to the State Board of Human Services for approval. The board's next meeting is Friday, Sept. 9.
Rules for Department of Human Services programs should be clear, concise and necessary," said Youlon Savage, Chair of the Human Services Board.

Source: http://www.colorado.gov/cs/Satellite?c=Page&childpagename=GovHickenlooper%2FCBONLayout&cid=1251599386793&pagename=CBONWrapper
