Public Statements
Denver Post - Innovations Panel Tells Colorado Leaders how to Support Job Creation
News Article
By: Michael Bennet John Hickenlooper Mark Udall
Date: June 25, 2011
Location: Unknown

By: Justin Hillery
Coloradans for an Innovation Economy presented its findings Friday on how to expand innovation in the state, recommending creation of a venture capital fund, an innovation SWAT team and more tax incentives for investing.
The group, which is made up of people from the aerospace, renewable energy and biosciences industries, presented its findings to U.S. Sens. Michael Bennet and Mark Udall, along with Gov. John Hickenlooper.
In December, Bennet requested that a group be formed to identify ways to promote economic competitiveness at the state and national levels.
"Instead of people in government listening to people in government, maybe what we ought to do is get some time with people who are in the field doing this around the major drivers of what could be the future of Colorado," said Mark Sirangelo, co-chair of the group and executive vice president of Sierra Nevada Corp.
The meeting, which took place at Sierra Nevada in Louisville, featured a presentation that outlined the key points of the group's report.
Among the group's recommendations was the creation of a Colorado Innovation Economy SWAT Team that would regularly engage in discussions about growing and expanding the innovation economy in Colorado. The SWAT team would include representatives from the federal and state governments, the Colorado Office of Economic Development and International Trade, innovation-based industries and various universities across the state.
"It's fun to talk about ideas -- I'm not diminishing ideas -- but putting ideas into action is where jobs get created and where our economy moves forward," Udall said.
Udall said the SWAT team was a wonderful way for a network to respond to opportunities coming to Colorado before they are formally announced and to figure out which industries are relevant in competing for those opportunities.
The group also proposed setting up a Colorado lead state or regional venture capital fund that would bring more focused private capital investment to the state. Colorado ranks eighth nationally in investment activity with $468 million, about $10.5 billion less than national leader California and $1.8 billion less than second-place Massachusetts.
Holli Riebel, the group's co-chair and chief executive of the Colorado BioScience Association, said the level of venture capital investing has been decreasing for several years.
"Our No. 1 concern among our companies and institutions is attracting capital," Riebel said.
The group recommended creating tax incentives for private investment into companies caught in a funding gap. The report said many clean-energy companies fall into a gap, or "Valley of Death," between early stage funding -- for example, from the inventor's own pockets and angel investors -- and debt and equity financing at the later stages because the risk and profitability of their technology does not fit into the typical investment parameters for capital sources.
Other principles that were emphasized in the report included creating more predictable government policy so that businesses can better plan for the future and that Colorado needs to do a better job of preparing students in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
"Now I think it falls on all of us to make sure we actually carry through on implementation of the ideas that are in it," Bennet said of the report. "There's a lot of interest in (Congress), and we'll make sure we report back to them on the meeting."

Source: http://www.denverpost.com/business/ci_18350024
