Public Statements
Letter to Vic Abate, Vice President of Renewables for General Electric Energy
Letter
By: John Hickenlooper Doug Lamborn Cory Gardner Michael Bennet Scott Tipton Mark Udall Diana DeGette Michael Coffman Ed Perlmutter Jared Polis
Date: April 14, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

The entire Colorado Congressional Delegation, Governor John Hickenlooper, and leaders of Colorado's public research institutions banded together today to encourage General Electric (GE) to locate a new solar panel manufacturing facility in the state that has the potential to create over 400 good-paying jobs for Coloradans.
In a letter to General Electric Energy's vice president of renewables, Colorado leaders touted the state's leadership in clean energy research, innovation and manufacturing as reasons to build in the state of Colorado what has the potential to be the nation's largest solar panel manufacturing facility.
"Colorado is on the leading edge of clean energy economic development and we can't think of a better place to site such a facility," the leaders said in the letter. "GE would find a fruitful partnership with the State of Colorado. As state and federal collaboration can facilitate innovative economic opportunities such as GE's proposal, we stand ready to provide any additional help to attract this facility to Colorado."
At least 10 states are being considered for the facility.
Colorado leaders signing the letter were U.S. Senators Michael Bennet and Mark Udall; Governor John Hickenlooper; U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette, Doug Lamborn, Ed Perlmutter, Mike Coffman, Jared Polis, Cory Gardner and Scott Tipton; University of Colorado President Bruce Benson; Colorado State University Chancellor Joe Blake and Colorado School of Mines President Bill Scoggins.
The full text of the letter follows:
April 14, 2011
Vic Abate
Vice President of Renewables
General Electric Energy
1 River Road
Schenectady, NY 12345
Dear Mr. Abate,
We were pleased to read in an article that appeared in last week's Denver Post that General Electric (GE) is considering Colorado as a potential site for a large, new solar panel manufacturing facility. Colorado is on the leading edge of clean energy economic development and we can't think of a better place to site such a facility.
Our state is a demonstrated leader in clean energy research, innovation and manufacturing. Golden, Colorado is home to the Department of Energy's National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). Several of our universities - including the University of Colorado, Colorado State University and the Colorado School of Mines - are recognized as pioneers on a variety of clean energy issues.
As you know, we are already home to several innovative solar companies in Colorado, including the company GE recently acquired, Primestar Solar. Colorado is no stranger to other types of renewable manufacturing, either. Vestas Wind is reaping the benefits of the investments it has made in Colorado. When the Vestas plants - spread across our state and producing a variety of wind turbine components - are operating at full capacity, they will employ more than 2,500 Coloradans. We anticipate similar success with the GE facility(ies) in Colorado.
We write to express our strong support for GE bringing the planned manufacturing facility to Colorado. GE would find a fruitful partnership with the State of Colorado. As state and federal collaboration can facilitate innovative economic opportunities such as GE's proposal, we stand ready to provide any additional help to attract this facility to Colorado. In particular, we would respectfully alert you to Governor Hickenlooper's Office of Economic Development and International Trade.
We hope to work closely with GE in the future as Colorado leads the nation's transition to a clean energy economy. We urge GE to bring the solar panel facility to Colorado.

Source: http://markudall.senate.gov/?p=press_release&id=1018
