Public Statements
Issue Position: Economic Development
Issue Position
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

The number one job for Colorado's next Governor will be job creation and economic recovery. No doubt about it. The global economic recession has taken a terrible toll. We've lost too many jobs.
Starting a business, meeting a payroll, balancing budgets and growing jobs is something Colorado's next Governor should know. As the owner of Denver's first successful brewpub and as the Mayor of Colorado's largest city, practical experience in creating jobs, attracting investment and expanding economic opportunity has been at the core of our record.
Leaders in economic development point out that some aspects of successful job creation are true no matter where you live. These include: keeping taxes low, affordable housing, efficient transportation and infrastructure, having a predictable and fair regulatory environment for business and, perhaps most important of all, having a strong education system. These are guideposts for economic recovery and must frame any agenda for stimulating job growth in Colorado.
It's also important to understand how we are different from other states. We can build best on what we know best. Aerospace, energy, biosciences, agriculture and tourism, for example, are five of our long-standing base industries and largely responsible for much of our "primary" job creation in Colorado. That means jobs producing revenue from outside Colorado. The more primary jobs we have, the greater our foundation for expanding economic growth, balancing our state budget and investing in public resources like transportation, schools and higher education that, in turn, lead to more job creation.
Colorado is also unique because we enjoy an unparalleled quality of life. Many businesses want to relocate or start-up here because of our climate, life-style, environment and recreational opportunities. Colorado also has a highly-educated workforce, a strong small-business sector, and a diverse energy sector that makes us a leader, not only in traditional energy sources but also in new renewable energy. By sector, our economy has important building blocks in place for the 21st century, including energy, life sciences, aerospace, aviation, financial services, broadcasting/telecommunications, and information technology. All of these industries are on the cutting edge of global competition. If we are effective in government, we can help these sectors thrive.













Source:
