Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Boards and Commissions Appointments
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper today announced Boards and Commissions appointments to the Identity Theft and Financial Fraud Board, Board of Trustees for Adams State University, State Board of Stock Inspection Commissioners, Colorado State Board of Chiropractic Examiners, Colorado Limited Gaming Control Commission, Colorado Medical Board, Ground Water Commission, Stroke Advisory Board, Hospital Provider Fee Oversight and Advisory Board, Developmental Disabilities Council, Colorado Water Conservation Board, and the Water Quality Control Commission.
The Identity Theft and Financial Fraud Board assists the attorney general, sheriffs, police and district attorneys in investigating identity theft and financial fraud crimes and in prosecuting persons who commit those crimes. The Board also serves as an educational resource for law enforcement agencies, members of the financial industry and the public regarding strategies for protection from and deterrence of identity theft and financial fraud crimes.
For a term expiring June 30, 2017:
Daniel Jay Marostica of Parker, to serve as a representative of payment processors, and occasioned by the resignation of Michael Allen Stefanich of the City of Castle Pines, appointed.
The Board of Trustees for Adams State University makes policy for the school and oversees its operation.
For terms expiring December 31, 2016:
LeRoy James Salazar of Manassa, a Democrat, reappointed;
Wendell Lorenzo Pryor of Denver, a Democrat, and occasioned by theresignation of Mary K. Griffin of Boulder, appointed;
for a term expiring December 31, 2019:
Michele J. Lueck of Englewood, a Democrat, and occasioned by the resignation of Valentin "Val" Vigil of Thornton, appointed.
The State Board of Stock Inspection Commissioners makes rules regarding brand inspection and livestock laws and regulates fees for stock inspections. The Commission also sets service charges and procedures, administers the Estray Fund, licenses public livestock markets and secures bond and surety on butchers and slaughters.
For a term expiring May 1, 2020:
Kathie Troudt Riley of Loveland, to serve as a representative with broad general knowledge of the Colorado livestock industry and as a representative of commodities other than the confinement and non-confinement cattle industries with the largest percentage of charged fees, reappointed.
The Colorado State Board of Chiropractic Examiners is responsible for making rules and regulations dealing with the chiropractic profession in Colorado. It also grants licenses to qualified applicants, approves chiropractic schools and conducts hearings when necessary.
For a term expiring May 18, 2020:
Chadwick Warner Hawk, DC of Castle Rock, to serve as a chiropractor, appointed.
The Colorado Limited Gaming Control Commission adopts and enforces rules and regulations for the establishment and operation of gambling in the Colorado towns of Black Hawk, Central City and Cripple Creek.
For a term expiring July 1, 2016:
Cynthia D. Mares of Centennial, representing registered electors, and as a Democrat, and occasioned by the resignation of Charles J. Murphy of Colorado Springs, appointed;
for a term expiring July 1, 2020:
Cynthia D. Mares of Centennial, representing registered electors, and as a Democrat, reappointed.
The Colorado Medical Board reviews applications for medical licenses. In cases involving any professional or ethical violations of the Medical Practices Act, the Board holds hearings and assists the state's district attorneys in the prosecution of all persons, firms, associations, or corporations charged with improper conduct.
For terms expiring May 3, 2020:
Amanda M. Mixon, PA-C of Fort Collins, to serve as a physician assistant, appointed;
Brock Matthew Bordelon, M.D. of Colorado Springs, to serve as a doctor of medicine, reappointed;
Judith Freda Schulman of Denver, to serve as a member of the public, reappointed;
Donna M. Baldwin, D.O. of Aurora, to serve as a doctor of osteopathy, reappointed.
The Ground Water Commission determines the boundaries of designated ground water basins by geographic description and considers well permit applications for persons desiring to appropriate designated ground water for beneficial use. The Commission is responsible for the development of policies and procedures for maximum economic development, as well as the protection of the vested rights of the designated ground water basins of the state.
For terms expiring May 1, 2020:
Steven Dale Kramer of Bethune, to serve as a resident agriculturist from the Northern High Plains Basin, reappointed;
Eric Hecox of Denver, to serve as a representative of municipal or industrial users, appointed;
Angela Beth Fowler of Glenwood Springs, to serve as a representative of Western Slope municipal or industrial users, appointed.
The Stroke Advisory Board evaluates potential strategies for stroke prevention and treatment, and develops statewide needs assessments identifying relevant resources to improve quality of care for stroke patients. Each January 1, the Board submits a report specifying its findings and recommendations to the Department of Public Health and Environment and the corresponding committees in the State House and State Senate.
For a term expiring August 1, 2017:
Robyn G. Moore of Evergreen, to serve as a Colorado resident representing a national association whose goal is to eliminate cardiovascular disease and strokes, and occasioned by the resignation of Angie Marie Baker of Denver, appointed.
The Hospital Provider Fee Oversight and Advisory Board is responsible for working with the Department of Health Care Policy and Financing and the Medical Services Board to develop the hospital provider fee model, monitor the implementation of House Bill 09-1293, help with the preparation of annual reports on this program, and ensure that the Medicaid and Child Health Plan Plus (CHP+) eligibility expansions are implemented as intended.
For a term expiring May 15, 2019:
Peggy Jordan Burnette of Denver, an employee of a hospital in Colorado, reappointed;
for terms expiring May 15, 2020:
Dan E. Enderson of Castle Rock, an employee of a hospital in Colorado, reappointed;
George Montgomery O'Brien of Pueblo, a person with a disability, who is living with a disability, and who is not a representative or an employee of a hospital, health insurance carrier, or other health care industry entity, reappointed.
The Developmental Disabilities Council is responsible for coordinating services and advocating for persons with developmental disabilities.
For terms expiring July 1, 2017:
Patricia Marie Henke of Boulder, to serve as a representative of the state agency that administers funds provided under the federal "Rehabilitation Act of 1973" and occasioned by the resignation of Scott LeRoy of Boulder, appointed;
Audrey A. Krebs of Lakewood, to serve as a representative of a state agency that administers funds provided under the "Older Americans Act of 1965," and occasioned by the resignation of Kathleen Dwyer of Denver, appointed;
for a term expiring July 1, 2018:
Claire E. Dickson of Denver, to serve as a representative of the state protection and advocacy system, and occasioned by the resignation of Kasey R. Daniel of Littleton, appointed;
effective July 1, 2016 for terms expiring July 1, 2019:
Harold Vincent Wright, Jr. of Centennial, to serve as a parent of a child with developmental disabilities, appointed;
Honorable Irene Aguilar of Denver, to serve as a member of the Colorado General Assembly, reappointed;
Nellie Jean Benfield of Pueblo, to serve as a parent, guardian or family member of an adult with developmental disabilities, appointed;
Jessica Shericee Howard of Denver, to serve as an immediate relative or guardian of an adult with developmental disabilities, appointed;
Jennifer Marie Munthali of Denver, to serve as an individual with knowledge of maternal and child health, reappointed;
Deon Gillespie of Denver, to serve as a parent or guardian of a child with developmental disabilities, reappointed;
Corey R. Mineo of Carbondale, to serve as a person with developmental disabilities, reappointed;
Jeanette Marie Cordova of Aurora, to serve as an immediate relative or guardian of an adult with developmental disabilities, reappointed.
The Colorado Water Conservation Board aids in the protection and development of the waters of the state. The Board is responsible for water project planning and finance, stream and lake protection, flood hazard identification and mitigation, weather modification, river restoration, water conservation and drought planning, water information, and water supply protection.
For a term expiring February 12, 2018:
James Thomas Yahn of Sterling, to serve as a representative of the South Platte drainage basin and as a Republican, and occasioned by the death of Phyllis "Diane" Hoppe of Broomfield, appointed.
The Water Quality Control Commission is responsible for developing and maintaining a comprehensive and effective program for the prevention, control and abatement of water pollution of the waters throughout the entire state.
For terms expiring February 15, 2019:
Barbara Jean Biggs of Denver, reappointed;
Kevin James Greer, PE of Englewood, appointed;
Fredrick J. Menzer of Breckenridge, appointed.

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-announces-boards-and-commissions-appointments-162
