Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Boards and Commissions Appointments
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: May 11, 2016
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper today announced several Boards and Commissions appointments to the Colorado Human Trafficking Council, Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Advisory Council, State Board of Optometry, and Denver Metropolitan Area Regional Air Quality Council.
The Colorado Human Trafficking Council brings together leadership from community-based and statewide anti-trafficking efforts to build and enhance collaboration among communities and counties within the state, establish and improve comprehensive services for victims and survivors of human trafficking, assist in the successful prosecution of human traffickers and help prevent human trafficking in Colorado.
For a term expiring August 1, 2018:
Sheriff Anthony Gerard Spurlock of Littleton, to serve as a representative of a statewide association of county sheriffs, and occasioned by the resignation of Sheriff Justin Smith of Fort Collins, appointed.
The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Advisory Council advises the Department of Public Safety's Division of Criminal Justice and the Governor on matters pertaining to juvenile justice in Colorado. It also assists, reviews and approves the annual Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Plan.
For a term expiring July 31, 2016:
Nicholas Ryan Turco of Durango, to serve as a youth member, and occasioned by the resignation of Nkeonye'Asua Linda Egbune of Denver, appointed;
for a term expiring July 31, 2020:
Nicholas Ryan Turco of Durango, to serve as a youth member, reappointed.
The State Board of Optometry sets rules and regulations for administering examinations and conducts hearings to revoke, suspend, deny or reissue licenses.
For a term expiring April 15, 2017:
Dustin Clark Anderson, OD of Woodland Park, to serve as an optometrist, and occasioned by the resignation of Paul Conkling, OD of Centennial, appointed;
for terms expiring April 15, 2020:
Donna M. Chen Ellinger, OD of Westminster, to serve as an optometrist, appointed;
Kerry Kay Jarvis, OD of Denver, to serve as an optometrist, appointed;
Penny Sue Lonergan of Colorado Springs, to serve as a member of the public, reappointed.
The Denver Metropolitan Area Regional Air Quality Council prepares air quality plans for the Denver metropolitan region to demonstrate and ensure long-term compliance with federal air quality standards.
For terms expiring April 30, 2019:
Honorable Herbert Lorenzo Atchison of Westminster, to serve as a representative of local government in the Denver metropolitan region, and occasioned by the resignation of the Honorable Joyce Thomas of Federal Heights, appointed;
Jose Paolo Diaz of Commerce City, to serve as a public member with appropriate land use planning experience, and occasioned by the resignation of Robert Duane Murphy of Lakewood, appointed.

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-announces-boards-and-commissions-appointments-158
