Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Boards and Commissions Appointments
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today a Boards and Commissions appointments to the Colorado Scenic and Historic Byways Commission, the Colorado Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities and State Interagency Coordinating Council.
The Colorado Scenic and Historic Byways Commission works with state agencies, the U.S. Forest Service, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, local byways organizations, and public and private resources to assist in the development of byways management plans, including those involving the interpretation, promotion and protection of distinctive byways characteristics. The Commission also helps coordinate the budgeting process and the allocation of federal, state, and private funds for the purpose of byway improvement.
For a term expiring January 1, 2018:
Jack Placchi of Golden, to serve as a representative of the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, and occasioned by the resignation of Leah Anne Quesenberry of Canon City, appointed.
The Colorado Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities coordinates with state boards, advisory councils, and commissions established for or related to persons with disabilities; advises the governor and general assembly on legislation and state policy affecting persons with disabilities; monitors the state's implementation of Title II of the federal "Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;" acts as an additional entry point for public grievances regarding disability issues and refers those grievances to the appropriate state agency or personnel; and develops procedures relating to the Council's internal operations.
For a term expiring October 7, 2018:
Cynthia K. Dascher of Thornton, to serve as a representative of the Department of Education, a state agency serving persons with disabilities, and occasioned by the resignation of Randy Boyer of Denver, appointed;
Alicia Rae Melendez of Thornton, to serve as a representative of the Department of Regulatory Agencies, a state agency serving persons with disabilities, and occasioned by the resignation of Teresa Jane Devlin of Denver, appointed.
For a term expiring October 7, 2019:
Greg Anthony Martinez of Brighton, to serve as a representative of the Department of Transportation, a state agency serving persons with disabilities, reappointed;
The State Interagency Coordinating Council advises the Colorado Department of Human Services on the implementation of Part C of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act of 2004. Part C relates to the support and services for infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families.
For a term expiring June 30, 2018:
Senator Kevin Lundberg of Berthoud, to serve as a state legislator, appointed.

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-announces-boards-and-commissions-appointments-157
