Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Boards and Commissions Appointments
Press Release
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: April 26, 2016
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper announced today several Boards and Commissions appointments to the Statewide Independent Living Council and Community Corrections Advisory Council.
The Statewide Independent Living Council works to ensure that every person with a disability in the state who wants to live independently has the resources to do so. The Council supports the state's independent living centers through training and technical assistance, and advocates with them for the financial resources they need to further independent living in their local communities. The Council also conducts research, assesses the statewide need for services, and determines how resources for should be allocated.
For a term expiring October 1, 2017:
Lana Sage Mutters of Lakewood, to serve as a representative of state agencies that provide services to people with disabilities, and occasioned by the resignation of Colin Carter Laughlin of Denver, appointed.
The Community Corrections Advisory Council advises and assists the Department of Public Safety's Division of Criminal Justice by analyzing, identifying and recommending policy modifications for community corrections programs.
For terms expiring February 28, 2020:
James Richard Bullock, JD of La Junta, to serve as a district attorney, appointed;
Honorable Joyce Elizabeth Downing, of Northglenn, to serve as a local elected official, appointed;
Jagruti Rai Shah, MA, LPC, CACIII of Broomfield, to serve as a representative of the Department of Human Services offender mental health programs, appointed;
Nikea Tanisha Bland, JD of Denver, to serve as a member of the legal community, appointed;
Eileen P. Kinney of Longmont, to serve as a representative of probation officers, appointed;
Greg John Mauro of Littleton, to serve as a representative of community corrections, reappointed;
Douglas P. Erler of Greeley, to serve as a citizen member, reappointed;
Shannon L. Carst of Commerce City, to serve as a representative of community corrections, reappointed;
Stanley Alan Hilkey of Arvada, to serve as a representative of the Department of Public Safety, reappointed;
Richard F. Raemisch of Colorado Springs, to serve as a representative of the Department of Corrections, reappointed;
Joe Martin Morales of Parker, to serve as a member of the Parole Board, reappointed;
Melissa Bonnie Roberts of Aurora, to serve as a representative of community corrections, reappointed.

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-announces-boards-and-commissions-appointments-156
