Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper, Commission Release Report on the Study of American Indian Representations in Public Schools
Statement
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: April 18, 2016
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper and the Governor's Commission to Study American Indian Representation in Public Schools today released their final report on the use of mascots and imagery in Colorado public schools. The group was joined by William (Bill) Mendoza, the executive director of White House Initiative on American Indian and Alaska Native Education.
"This Commission has charted a path forward for Colorado with a willingness to work together through conversation and collaboration," said Hickenlooper. "We are grateful to everyone who participated in this process. Their hard work gives us all a better understanding of each other and the complexities of this issue."
Representatives from federally recognized tribes, Colorado's American Indian population, institutions of public education, state agencies, and community stakeholders make up the 15 member commission. The Commission was created by the governor in 2015 through executive order.
"Through participation in this Commission, our tribe was able to see the lack of education and awareness around American Indian history and culture in Colorado's public schools," said Chairman Clement Frost, Southern Ute Indian Tribe. "We believe it is incumbent upon our Tribe, the State of Colorado, and Colorado public schools to recognize the role of American Indians in Colorado's history and to ensure that this history is taught comprehensively and accurately."
The Commission was invited by four communities with American Indian mascots to engage in a discussion about the ongoing struggle for local traditions versus the desire to treat American Indians respectfully and honor their history and culture.
"The recommendations made by Governor Hickenlooper and the Commission are not only needed and appropriate, they are consistent with the concerns raised by native youth across the country, who are calling upon education decision-makers to address harmful Native-themed imagery so that all students, particularly Native Americans, experience a safe and welcoming school environment," said William (Bill) Mendoza, executive director, White House Initiative on American Indian and Alaska Native Education.
"As an administrator, emphasizing respect for all cultures and for all people is one of our most important educational missions," said Jeff Rasp Principal at Strasburg High School. "Our partnership with the Arapaho tribe has been one of the most beneficial experiences ever for our school."
"The use of American Indian mascots creates an opportunity for schools and tribes to engage in meaningful relationships with one another," said Chairman Manuel Heart, Ute Mountain Ute Tribe. "Schools like Strasburg High School are positive examples of a way in which the use of a mascot can be the catalyst for fostering a respectful, educational, and unique partnership that also acknowledges the sovereignty of American Indian nations."

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-commission-release-report-study-american-indian-representations-public-schools
