Public Statements
Gov. Hickenlooper Announces Fidelity Investments Expansion and Hundreds of Jobs for Colorado
Statement
By: John Hickenlooper
Date: Oct. 26, 2015
Location: Denver, CO

Gov. John Hickenlooper today announced that Fidelity Investments will expand its Regional Center and will hire an additional 300 associates. This expansion will increase Fidelity's financial services presence in the state and will create hundreds of new jobs over the next few years.
"Fidelity's expansion adds to the growing list of financial services companies that have chosen to make a significant investment in Colorado," said Hickenlooper. "This news helps demonstrate that Colorado, with its innovative ecosystem, top-notch talent pool and entrepreneurial spirit, is a state where business grows and thrives. We look forward to Fidelity's continued success in our state."
Fidelity established its regional center in Greenwood Village in 2013, has hired more than 500 associates since then and built a successful operation that has become an integral part of Fidelity's nationwide presence. Fidelity also has an asset management company in Denver, five Investor Centers in Denver and around the state, and institutional clients including seven of the nine Fortune 500 companies headquartered in Colorado.
"We're fortunate to have a great partner in the State of Colorado, and we're confident that the strong business climate in the state will contribute to our continued success," said Fidelity Senior Vice President and Regional Leader Sherri Kroonenberg. "This expansion, which further deepens Fidelity's commitment to Colorado, is supported by a program we have worked on with the Colorado Office of Economic Development and International Trade, which provides incentives that will support our hiring efforts through the end of 2018."
The Economic Development Commission approved a Job Growth Incentive Tax Credit in the amount of $8,131,621 for Fidelity on Oct. 5, 2015. In addition, Fidelity will make an investment of approximately $5 million to build out an additional floor of space in the Greenwood Village offices. The company expects to move into that space in January 2016 and will begin hiring immediately.

Source: https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/governor/news/gov-hickenlooper-announces-fidelity-investments-expansion-and-hundreds-jobs-colorado
