Public Statements
Walker-Mallott Administration Releases Effects of Legislature's No-Action Plan
Statement
By: Bill Walker
Date: July 13, 2016
Location: Juneau, AK

The Walker-Mallott administration today released a six-page report of the dire consequences facing Alaskans as a result of the legislature's failure to pass a sustainable fiscal plan.
In releasing the report, Governor Bill Walker said:
"I thank the 29th Legislature for convening its fifth special legislative session to consider a truly historic Alaskan challenge. I have said many times: our new fiscal reality only constitutes a "crisis' if we fail to act. Unfortunately, after a regular, extended, and special legislative session this year, 90 percent of our fiscal problem remains -- with little optimism for reasonable compromise. It's clear now: We have a serious fiscal crisis.
How we deal with this crisis will define us all -- with no less than Alaska's future hanging in the balance. I therefore expect, and all Alaskans should demand, compromise and affirmative action by this Legislature on a comprehensive solution to our massive budget deficit during this special legislative session. I do appreciate the Senate's good work in passing SB 128 to restructure the permanent fund.
There are currently three fiscal plans in play. There's the Governor's New Sustainable Alaska Plan, which will continue to force government efficiency while maintaining most current state services. But there are also two alternate plans: The No Action Plan (NAP) and the SB128-Only (Permanent Fund Restructure) Plan.
Under either alternate plan, devastating cuts to state services are required.
The Alaska Legislature will choose one of these three plans during this fifth special legislative session. Failure to adopt the New Sustainable Alaska Plan will, by default, mean choosing the No Action Plan (NAP). If the Legislature were to only pass SB128, then the SB128-Only Plan goes forward. One way or another, one of these three plans will go into effect when the Legislature gavels out of the fifth special session.
I will ask every legislator and every candidate for the legislature to choose which of these three plans they support. Failure to choose a plan will constitute support for the No Action Plan (NAP). After Alaskans become familiar with the type of Alaska each of these three plans represents, voters will be much better informed about who should represent them in Juneau."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/newsroom/2016/07/walker-mallott-administration-releases-effects-of-legislatures-no-action-plan/
