Public Statements
Governor Walker Signs Bill Improving Voter Registration in Alaska
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: June 28, 2016
Location: Juneau, AK

Governor Bill Walker signed into law today SB 9, which will improve the integrity of Alaska's voter registration lists, and further define what a political party may submit in the state's Official Election Pamphlet. Governor Walker signed the legislation during a bill-signing ceremony at the Division of Elections headquarters in Juneau.
"Practicing your right to vote is the hallmark of our nation's democracy," said Governor Walker. "This bill allows the Division of Elections to oversee this critical function in the most effective manner, and strengthens the integrity of Alaska's voting system. I thank Senator Micciche for his work on this important piece of legislation."
Sponsored by Senator Peter Micciche of Soldotna, SB 9 allows the state's Division of Elections to join the Electronic Registration Information Center (ERIC), a nonprofit organization whose mission is to assist states with improving the accuracy of America's voter rolls and increasing voter registration. ERIC is a sophisticated interstate data exchange that will allow for more timely removal of voters registering in another member state, reduce the number of individuals voting in multiple states, increase voter registration, and ensure accurate voter registration rolls are maintained. Alaska is now one of 18 states participating in the program.
"I am proud Alaska now joins 17 other states that have prioritized improving accuracy of voter registration records," said Lt. Governor Byron Mallott. "The Electronic Registration Information Center is the best option available for states wanting to use innovative technology to improve the administration of elections."
SB 9 also defines what a political party may submit in the Division of Elections Official Election Pamphlet, and limits advocacy of political candidates seeking office in the pamphlet. Additionally, the bill limits the use of "attack ads" to ensure the publicly funded election pamphlet remains a source of free, unbiased information about current officials, candidates, issues, and initiatives.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/newsroom/2016/05/governor-walker-signs-bill-improving-voter-registration-in-alaska/
