Public Statements
Governor Walker Signs Revenue-Generating Bills into Law
Statement
By: Bill Walker
Date: June 23, 2016
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker signed two bills into law yesterday that will increase state revenue under the Department of Natural Resources, and reduce the agency's dependency on unrestricted general funds. Money generated from the legislation will pay for operation and maintenance costs within multiple divisions of DNR.
Sponsored by Governor Walker and managed by Senator Click Bishop of Fairbanks and Representative Cathy Munoz of Juneau, SB 101 allows DNR's Division of Parks and Outdoor Recreation to sell state park-themed merchandise in a manner that brings a reasonable monetary return to the state. To ensure a public/private partnership is provided, the division will sell merchandise wholesale to Alaska-based retailers to resell in local stores, as well as in select Alaska state park facilities and through an online store. Funds generated from the sale of merchandise will support state park operations. Currently, Alaska state park-themed merchandise is only available through outside online retailers unaffiliated with the state.
States with mature park merchandise programs have profited up to $3 million a year. While the Governor does not expect such returns in the immediate future, he noted the opportunities this system could provide to Alaska's park system.
"I thank Senator Bishop and Representative Munoz for shepherding this bill through the legislature," said Governor Walker. "With the nation's largest state park system, we have an opportunity to promote Alaska's parks to visitors around the world while creating new revenue for our state coffers."
Under SB 101, the department will, to the extent practicable, only sell merchandise manufactured in the United States, and procured from either an Alaskan bidder or an organization that employs prisoners.
Governor Walker also signed SB 170 at the Geologic Materials Center in Anchorage. He was joined by the bill's sponsor, Senator Cathy Giessel of Anchorage, Representative Lance Pruitt of Anchorage and representatives from DNR and the Alaska Miners Association.
Under SB 170, the Division of Geological and Geophysical Surveys will be able to set and collect fees for products, services, and the use of its facilities and equipment.. The bill helps the Geologic Materials Center move towards the goal of self-sustainability, and limits its reliance on state general funds.
"With a $4 billion budget deficit, we must leave no stone unturned as we look for new ways to fund state government," Governor Walker said. "I thank Senator Giessel for bringing this legislation forward, and for finding new ways to reduce the draw on unrestricted general funds."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/newsroom/2016/06/governor-walker-signs-revenue-generating-bills-into-law/
