Public Statements
Governor Walker Appoints Susan Carney to Alaska Supreme Court
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: May 12, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Bill Walker announced today the appointment of Susan M. Carney of Fairbanks to the Alaska Supreme Court. Ms. Carney will replace Justice Dana Fabe, who is retiring after serving more than 20 years on the Alaska Supreme Court. Governor Walker made his announcement at the 2016 Alaska Bar Convention in Anchorage.
"It is with great honor that I appoint Susan Carney to the state's highest court," said Governor Walker. "As a long-time defense attorney with the Office of Public Advocacy, Susan brings a unique perspective to the bench. Her extensive work with clients in rural regions has given her insight on issues important to the Alaska Native community. From reading the many letters of recommendation, it is clear Susan is highly respected, as she has been praised by members of opposing counsel."
Ms. Carney's appointment was unanimously supported by the Alaska Judicial Council. "I thank members of the Council for submitting to me the names of four very qualified candidates," Governor Walker said.
Ms. Carney earned her bachelor's degree in History & Literature at Harvard-Radcliffe College and graduated cum laude from Harvard Law School. She also studied at Harvard Divinity School. She began practicing law in Alaska 27 years ago, when she clerked for Supreme Court Justice Jay Rabinowitz.
Throughout her career, Ms. Carney has participated in more than 150 civil and criminal trials. She currently works as a supervising attorney for the Office of Public Advocacy Fairbanks Defense Section, representing adults and juveniles in cases where a public defender is not available. Prior to her work with OPA, she spent ten years as an attorney with the Alaska Public Defender Agency. Ms. Carney has also served as guardian ad litem in dozens of cases.
"Susan has worked on a number of complex, high-profile cases in Alaska, and earned the respect of judges, prosecutors, defense attorneys, and advocacy groups alike," Governor Walker said. "Her professionalism, compassion, rigorous ethics, and extensive knowledge are revered by many and will make her an outstanding addition to the Alaska Supreme Court."
Ms. Carney is also an active member of the Fairbanks community, coaching youth soccer and volunteering with the Fairbanks area "We the People" competition. She has also served on the board of directors for Big Brothers Big Sisters of Alaska and Boys and Girls Club of the Tanana Valley. She is a member of the Alaska Bar Association Board of Governors, Criminal Pattern Jury Instruction Committee for the Alaska Court System and the Alaska Association of Criminal Defense Attorneys.
Ms. Carney is a member of the Immaculate Conception Catholic Church in Fairbanks.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/newsroom/2016/05/governor-walker-appoints-susan-carney-to-alaska-supreme-court/
