Public Statements
United States Coast Guard Overland Expedition
Statement
By: Bill Walker
Date: March 23, 2016
Location: Unknown

WHEREAS, the United States Coast Guard (USCG), a descendant of the U.S. Revenue Cutter Service, carries out the vital missions of protecting lives at sea, providing maritime safety, security, and stewardship in Alaska; and
WHEREAS, in 1897, the U.S. Revenue Cutter, BEAR, with a volunteer crew, was appointed by President William McKinley to rescue 265 Alaskan whalers trapped in the ice in the vicinity of Barrow Point; and
WHEREAS, on December 15, 1897, the BEAR arrived in Cape Vancouver, and the Overland Expedition began with three honorable crewmen: First Lieutenant David H. Jarvis, Second Lieutenant Ellsworth P. Bertholf, and Dr. Samuel J. Call; and
WHEREAS, the crew risked their lives in a harrowing 1,500-mile journey through the Alaskan wilderness on dog sleds in 60 degree below zero temperatures, through the long Arctic winter; and
WHEREAS, through blizzards and biting wind, they traveled 700 miles to Cape Prince of Wales, and persuaded W.T. Lopp and Charlie Artisarlook to lend 400 reindeer to the government. On March 26, 1898, they reached the stranded, starving whalers with the reindeer, other provisions, and medical expertise; and
WHEREAS, the rescue was a glorious success, in that most of the whaling men survived, thanks to the provisions and medical care provided by the overland crew of the BEAR; and
WHEREAS, the BEAR broke through the ice to Point Barrow on July 28, 1898, and then arrived laden with survivors in Seattle on September 13, 1898, almost ten months after it dropped its Overland Expedition crew the previous December; and
WHEREAS, in the proud tradition of the Revenue Service Cutter BEAR, Alaska's Coast Guard personnel show the same courage and tenacity as they keep watch on Alaska's waterways and keep Alaskans safe.
NOW THEREFORE, I, Bill Walker, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF ALASKA, do hereby proclaim March 26, 2016 as:
United States Coast Guard Overland Expedition Day
in Alaska, and encourage all Alaskans to remember this significant event in our history and to honor those, past and present, who labor at their own risk to keep others safe in Alaska.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/newsroom/2016/03/united-states-coast-guard-overland-expedition/
