Public Statements
Process to Streamline Development Begins
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: March 10, 2016
Location: Juneau, AK

Governor Bill Walker today signed Administrative Order 281 to begin the process to explore options for a more streamlined and effective approach to economic development in the state. Three state corporations--Alaska Housing Finance Corporation (AHFC), Alaska Energy Authority (AEA) and Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority (AIDEA)--will participate in finding potential opportunities for efficiency and consolidation.
"It's important that members of these economic development agencies play an active role in finding opportunities to improve both effectiveness and efficiencies," Governor Bill Walker said. "As the state scales back on spending, we must also diversify our economy. I look forward to seeing the recommendations put forth by AEA, AIDEA and AHFC on the most efficient way to do so."
About 440 people work at AEA, AIDEA and AHFC, which have a combined $3.2 billion in net assets.
"Today's current environment of low oil prices and declining production necessitates a proactive response that signals to bond holders, business partners and Alaska families that our agencies are committed to doing our part to improve the economic health of the state," said Bryan Butcher, AHFC CEO and Executive Director. "This administrative order sets in motion an initiative to strengthen and give laser-focus to AHFC's assets, capabilities and talents."
AHFC, established in 1971, is an active investor on Wall Street that allows for low-cost mortgage financing across Alaska, provides 10,000 Alaskans with public housing each night, supports construction of special needs housing, and promotes energy efficient homes and public facilities.
"This initiative ensures we are engaging in an inclusive process with the stated goals," said John Springsteen, AIDEA Executive Director. "Through this collaboration we look forward to enhancing our toolkit to support enterprise development in Alaska."
AIDEA, created by the Alaska Legislature in 1967, is the State's development finance authority. AIDEA advances economic growth and diversification in Alaska by providing support to business and industry through its comprehensive financing capabilities. As a result of this partnership with Alaskans, thousands of jobs have been created or retained across the state.
"As we advance this initiative we will engage in an inclusive process that includes private sector experts and corporation partners, employees, the legislature, and Alaskans," said Sara Fisher-Goad, AEA Executive Director.
AEA has worked for the past 40 years to diversify Alaska's energy portfolio, provide assistance to rural Alaska communities, lead strategic energy planning and construct energy systems. AEA administers the Renewable Energy Grant Fund and Emerging Energy Technology Fund and owns the Bradley Lake Hydroelectric project and Alaska Intertie.
Governor Walker has requested a report of recommendations ahead of the next legislative session.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7387
