Public Statements
Education Department Changes Leadership
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Feb. 4, 2016
Location: Juneau, AK

Governor Bill Walker and Board of Education and Early Development Chair James Fields announced a change in leadership for the Department of Education today. Dr. Susan McCauley will take over as interim Commissioner for the Department of Education and Early Development beginning March 1st while the Board conducts its search for a new department head.
"I thank Michael Hanley for his years of service to the State of Alaska and the Department of Education," said Governor Walker. "Ensuring Alaska's children have access to the finest public education system is a top priority for this administration. The board and I made the decision to steer the state's education system in a new direction, and I appreciate Commissioner Hanley's willingness to cooperate with this transition. I will be working closely with the Board of Education in the coming months to bring new leadership to the department."
Dr. McCauley currently serves as the Director of the Teaching and Learning Support Division, the Department of Education and Early Development's largest division. In this role, she oversees the implementation of statewide educational initiatives in a manner consistent with federal and state policy. Prior to joining the department, Dr. McCauley served as a teacher, principal, and district office administrator in both rural and urban Alaska. She holds a bachelor's degree in elementary education from Pennsylvania State University, a master's degree in educational administration from McDaniel College, and a doctorate of philosophy in education policy and leadership from the University of Alaska Fairbanks.
"The Board of Education and Early Development strives to maintain an exemplary education system where all Alaska children can thrive," said Board Chair James Fields. "On behalf of the entire board, I thank Commissioner Hanley for his service to the state. We look forward to working with Governor Walker and his administration in the coming months to move forward with the State Board of Education's strategic plan and aligning those goals with that of the Governor's."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7367
