Public Statements
State Launches Contest to Name New Ferries
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Jan. 4, 2016
Location: Juneau, AK

Governor Bill Walker called on Alaska students today to help name two state ferry vessels, which are currently being built in Ketchikan after the Alaska Legislature appropriated funding for the projects in the fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2012 budgets. From now until March 15, students between 6th and 12th grade are invited to name the two new Alaska Class ferries, and submit an essay explaining the choice. According to statute, each ferry must be christened after one of Alaska's 745 named glaciers.
The two ferries are currently being built at the Vigor Alaska shipyard in Ketchikan, and will serve the ports of Haines, Juneau and Skagway -- also known as the North Lynn Canal region. Crews began construction on the ferries in the fall of 2014 and are scheduled to be complete their work in 2018.
"Just like Benny Benson made history when he won the contest in 1927 to design the Alaska flag, two young Alaskans can also help make a mark in state history," said Governor Bill Walker. "I look forward to seeing our young people's creativity on display on the two vessels that will play such an important role in our state's transportation system."
The two winning essays will be framed and displayed on the respective ferries. Two winners will be chosen--one from the 6th-8th grade group; another from the 9th-12th grade group. The winning essays will be selected by Governor Walker, Lt. Governor Byron Mallott and Alaska Department of Transportation & Public Facilities Commissioner Marc Luiken.
The winners will be announced May 1. The two students with winning essays will receive an award certificate in their classroom, presented by Governor Walker, Lt. Governor Mallott or Commissioner Luiken.
Complete contest details and entry forms may be found online at FerryAlaska.com/contest.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7353
