Public Statements
State Meets Major Milestone in AKLNG
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Dec. 3, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

Governor Bill Walker today thanked BP and ConocoPhillips for committing to sign and make public a Gas Availability Agreement for their share of North Slope natural gas. The agreement will allow the project to move forward in the event that either company ends participation in the AKLNG project during preliminary front-end engineering and design (pre-FEED). This agreement brings the state one step further in its efforts to deliver North Slope gas to Alaskans and the world market.
"This is an historic milestone in the AKLNG project," Governor Walker said. "I am pleased that this agreement will be made public so Alaskans can better understand the project. Ensuring gas will be available to this gasline is a significant step in the right direction. I thank BP and ConocoPhillips for addressing the state's concerns by agreeing to continue to negotiate mutually agreed and commercially reasonable terms under which their gas would be made available in the event either company does not proceed beyond pre-FEED. BP and ConocoPhillips have given us the assurances we need to move forward."
By approving the project's work plan and budget, the state has signed on to AKLNG for another year. During this time, the four project partners will finalize pre-FEED work on the AKLNG project, which includes a natural gas liquefaction plant, storage facilities and an export terminal at Nikiski; an 800-mile gas pipeline from the North Slope to southcentral Alaska; a gas treatment plant; and transmission lines connecting the project to gas-producing fields. The project is expected to export up to 20 million metric tons of liquefied natural gas per year.
"With a $3.5 billion budget deficit, this gasline is a must-have project for the state," Governor Walker said. "We are committed to working with the legislature and our partners to see this project to completion and finally produce Alaska's abundant supply of North Slope gas. I am proud of the work of the state has done to get this commitment of gas."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7343
