Public Statements
Anchorage Superior Court Judge Appointed
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Nov. 24, 2015
Location: Juneau, AK

Governor Bill Walker today announced his appointment of Dani Crosby to the Anchorage Superior Court. Ms. Crosby will replace Judge Michael Spaan, who is retiring at the end of November after serving on the Anchorage Superior Court since 2007.
"It is an honor to appoint Dani Crosby as the next Anchorage Superior Court judge," said Governor Walker. "Dani has been described by her colleagues as hardworking, well-reasoned, and able to evaluate a legal problem from many different perspectives. These are traits I consider critical for a judge to be successful at his or her job, and I believe they will serve Dani well in this new role."
Raised in Sitka, Alaska, Ms. Crosby has practiced law for nearly 20 years, focusing on employment issues, complex business disputes, and family law matters. For the past two years, she has worked as a private practice attorney for Dani Crosby Law Office, Inc. Prior to that, Ms. Crosby was an attorney at Ashburn & Mason, P.C. for 14 years, where she was a leader in the firm's litigation practice, and worked on complex matters for the State of Alaska, the University of Alaska, and other private clients. In addition to her work as an attorney, Ms. Crosby is the President of the Alaska Bar Foundation, a member of the Civil Rules Committee, and a regular volunteer with Alaska Legal Services Corporation. She received a bachelor degree in English and Comparative Literary Studies from Occidental College, and a juris doctor from Gonzaga University School of Law.
"After reading the recommendations submitted by her peers, it is clear that Dani has the sound judgement and strong character to make difficult but fair decisions on a daily basis," said Governor Walker. "Dani is well respected by many in the legal community, and has an outstanding career ahead of her on Anchorage's Superior Court bench."
Nominated by the Alaska Judicial Council and appointed by the Governor, Ms. Crosby will now be one of 42 Superior Court judges in Alaska.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7335
