Public Statements
State of Alaska Acquires Interest in AKLNG
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Nov. 24, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker announced the state's acquisition of TransCanada's share of the Alaska LNG (AKLNG) project today. Department of Natural Resources Commissioner Mark Myers finalized the termination of the formal agreement that established and guided the participation of TransCanada Alaska Midstream LP in the AKLNG project.
"Today is a historic day. As Alaska faces a $3.5 billion budget deficit, this gasline project is our number-one get-well card," said Governor Walker. "By gaining an equal seat at the negotiating table, we are taking control of our destiny and making significant progress in our effort to deliver Alaska gas to the global market. I thank the legislature for their actions to enable this transaction, and TransCanada for the professional work they have done on behalf of Alaskans."
In June 2014, the Department of Natural Resources and TransCanada signed the Precedent Agreement, which authorized TransCanada to pay upfront capital costs and hold the State's 25 percent share of ownership in AKLNG's midstream components--the gas treatment plant and pipeline.
During the Legislature's recent special session, the Walker Administration recommended terminating the State's relationship with TransCanada so that it could directly participate in the AKLNG midstream, improve the overall economics of the project to the State, and allow the State to have more direct voting rights on key issues in return for its investment. The Legislature agreed and authorized an appropriation of approximately $68.5 million to enable the State to acquire TransCanada's participation interest in the AKLNG Project.
"This termination will enable the State to have more direct input to the decision-making process, which will be important as this project is pivotal for the future of the State, both in terms of potential revenue and gas for Alaskans," said Commissioner Myers.

Source:
