Public Statements
Governor Attends Briefing on Syrian Refugees
Statement
By: Bill Walker
Date: Nov. 17, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Today Governor Bill Walker joined other U.S. governors in a briefing with officials from the White House, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and U.S. State Department to learn about policies and procedures related to admitting Syrian refugees into the United States. The call was coordinated with the National Governors Association in an effort to educate governors on the process of bringing foreign refugees into the country, and address their concerns on the topic.
"I heard from White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough and other federal officials today about the stringent vetting process that foreign refugees go through before ever entering the United States," said Governor Walker. "While I understand the issue of allowing refugees into our country and our state lands solely with the federal government, I will remain focused on making sure the vetting process we were briefed on today remains the most stringent refugee vetting process in the world."
Since 2011, about 2,000 Syrian refugees have been admitted to the United States, however none have settled in Alaska. As described by White House officials today, the process for being admitted to the United States as a Syrian refugee can take up to two years, and requires rigorous background checks by the United Nation High Commissioner for Refugees, the U.S. State Department, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Additionally, preference is given to women and children, and single Iraqi and Syrian men between the ages of 16 and 50 must go through additional security screening before being accepted.
"My highest concern is the safety of all Alaskans, and I appreciate the work being done by Catholic Social Services to help refugees settle in our state, and become valuable members of our community," Governor Walker said. "I am committed to working with the federal government to ensure the highest level of safety for the citizens of Alaska and the United States, and I want to make sure Alaska officials play a role in refugee relocations efforts in our state."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7331
