Public Statements
ASD Brings Budget Challenge to the Classroom
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Oct. 15, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Gov. Bill Walker is pleased to announce the availability of educational resources to bring Alaska's fiscal challenge to the classroom. The lesson plans are targeted for middle and high school, and will be presented to 250-300 teachers at an Anchorage School District training on October 16.
"I'm excited about this opportunity to engage Alaska students in real-world problems," Governor Walker said. "The next generation is our best hope and our best inspiration for solving the challenges we face."
Targeted to Alaska state education standards, the lesson plans center on Alaska's Revenue and Expenditure Model developed earlier this year by the Alaska Department of Revenue. The interactive model helps users understand the state's budget challenge and enables Alaskans to "solve" the budget gap through a wide array of choices.
The lessons and related materials were developed by the University of Alaska Fairbanks eLearning team in collaboration with the Alaska Council on Economic Education, Anchorage School District, West Valley High School, and the State of Alaska. Project partners donated their time to the project, and the lessons will be available free of charge to all.
""Bringing the Revenue Model into the Classroom is an important step in improving economic and financial literacy education in Alaska," said Greg Huff, Alaska Council on Economic Education program director. The Council's mission is to advance the economic way of thinking so an informed public understands how economics shapes their lives and advocate for sound personal, local and national economic policies.
UAF Instructional Designer Owen Guthrie said: "At its core, Alaska's budget challenge seems more about making wise decisions than about a lack of resources. We see common benefit in educating all Alaskans on the range and complexity of economic choices we face in hopes we make the best possible decisions about our collective future."
Teachers will have an opportunity to explore the materials, which can be implemented in three days or three weeks. Teachers can also pick and choose, and select from supplemental materials such as interactive quizzes and games, and online presentations and videos.
Background: Alaska's current-year budget calls for spending of about $3 billion more than revenues -- even after budget cuts of 19 percent. With oil revenues expected to remain low and savings projected to run out by 2018, Alaskans must decide what government services we value, and how to pay for them. The Alaska Department of Revenue developed an interactive model that enables users to see the impacts of different spending and revenue choices, and to close the gap their way.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7299
