Public Statements
State Welcome Economic Developers to Alaska
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Oct. 1, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Nearly 1,000 economic development professionals from around the world will convene in Anchorage for the International Economic Development Council's annual conference from October 4 -- 7, 2015. Topics will include the role of public finance in infrastructure development and the expansion of a robust private sector.
"Despite our current budget challenges, Alaska's business climate is the ranked fourth in the country, and we are seventh in the nation for per-capita entrepreneurial activity," said Governor Bill Walker. "This conference is a chance for us to showcase the innovative projects, partnerships, and policies that make Alaska a great place to invest. The conference will also provide Alaskans with an opportunity to learn about current global trends in economic development."
Numerous Alaskans will participate in the conference as keynote speakers and session panelists. Five Alaska organizations will be recognized with awards of excellence in economic development in a ceremony to be held at the Dena'ina Center on October 6, 2015.
"Business site selectors representing business from around the globe will be in Anchorage attending this conference. This is an opportunity to showcase Anchorage and Alaska as a great place to do business and live, work and play," said Bill Popp, Anchorage Economic Development Corp. president and CEO.
The conference will generate an estimated $2 million to the economy in the Anchorage and surrounding areas; this does not include spending by conference attendees who extended their trips to further explore Alaska.
The International Economic Development Council (IEDC) is a non-profit membership organization serving economic developers. With more than 4,600 members, IEDC is the largest organization of its kind. Economic developers promote economic well-being and quality of life for their communities, by creating, retaining and expanding jobs that facilitate growth, enhance wealth and provide a stable tax base. From public to private, rural to urban, and local to international, IEDC's members are engaged in the full range of economic development experience. Learn more at iedconline.org.
The Alaska State Department of Commerce, Community and Economic Development is tasked with promoting a healthy economy, supporting strong communities, and protecting consumers in Alaska. For additional information about the Department of Commerce, Community and Economic Development and its agencies, please visit commerce.alaska.gov.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7286
