Public Statements
Governor Walker Announces Latest Steps to Build a Safer Alaska
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: June 7, 2017
Location: Juneau, AK

Governor Bill Walker today announced appointments to several boards and commissions, including Anchorage Police Department Acting Deputy Chief of Administration Sean Case and longtime victims' rights advocate Brenda Stanfill to the Alaska Criminal Justice Commission.
"My administration's top priority is to build a Safer Alaska," Governor Walker said. "I know that Brenda and Sean not only share the values necessary to strengthen public safety in our state, they have the experience, passion and network to enhance efforts currently in place."
Sean Case of Anchorage has been appointed to the municipal law enforcement seat on the Criminal Justice Commission for a term that ends June 30, 2020. Capt. Case is APD's Acting Deputy Chief of Administration and a 17-year APD veteran. He holds a bachelor's degree in justice from the University of Alaska, Anchorage and a master's degree in criminology from Indiana State University. Capt. Case has extensive experience in data-driven policing, which can be used to rehabilitate offenders while decreasing crime.
Brenda Stanfill of Fairbanks has been re-appointed to the commission's victims' rights advocate seat. Ms. Stanfill is the executive director of the Interior Alaska Center for Non-Violent Living. She holds a master's degree in public administration from the University of Alaska, Southeast. Ms. Stanfill has nearly 20 years of experience in treating and advocating for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, as well as serving on a statewide task force for a batterers' intervention program.
The 13-member Alaska Criminal Justice Commission evaluates and makes recommendations to improve criminal sentencing practices within the criminal justice system that enhance public safety and promote offender rehabilitation, victim restitution, and reduce costs.

Source: https://gov.alaska.gov/newsroom/2017/06/governor-walker-announces-latest-steps-to-build-a-safer-alaska/
