Public Statements
Governor Concludes Week of LNG Meetings
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Sept. 18, 2015
Location: Kyoto, JA

Governor Bill Walker wrapped up his final day of meetings to discuss Alaska's liquefied natural gas potential to prospective customers in Japan. He met with top executives of the LNG trading department of Osaka Gas, and toured the company's Senboku LNG terminal, which is among the largest in the country.
"It was so exciting to see how Osaka's LNG terminal works," Governor Walker said. "We have been shipping LNG to Japan since 1969. I look forward to sending more shipments of Alaska LNG to Japan's shores."
Governor Walker and his team met with the executive managing director and general manager of Kansai Electric Power Company (KEPCO), which currently buys Cook Inlet LNG from Alaska's Nikiski terminal.
Governor Walker and his team also met with Hyogo Prefecture Governor Toshizo Ido, who thanked him for the memorandum of understanding signed with Kyoto, a neighboring prefecture.
"The populous Hyogo prefecture, which includes the city of Kobe, will benefit from the MOU you signed with our neighbors in Kyoto," Governor Ido told Governor Walker. "We all look forward to seeing your LNG project completed, as the residents of Hyogo and Japan will be able to receive LNG more quickly from Alaska than we currently do from Middle Eastern countries like Qatar."
Governor Walker noted that LNG shipments would take seven days to reach Japan from Alaska.
"This was a very productive, very successful week in Tokyo, Osaka and Kyoto," Governor Walker said. "Korea and Japan are the two largest consumers of LNG in the world. Alaska has more than enough natural gas to supply the market and, in turn, satisfy in-state demand so Alaskans can pay less for energy. I look forward to deepening the relationships we established this week as Alaska works with our East Asian neighbors on a mutually beneficial trade relationship."
Governor Walker spoke at the 4th LNG Producer-Consumer Conference. Governor Walker, Department of Natural Resources Deputy Commissioner Marty Rutherford and Alaska Gas Team General Manager Audie Setters also spoke at the Alaska Oil & Gas Opportunity Seminar--organized by Resources Energy, Inc.., and sponsored by Sasakawa Peace Foundation, Institute of Energy Economics, Energy Resources, Inc., and Japan Institute for Overseas Investment.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7277
