Public Statements
Governor Walker Speaks at LNG Conference
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Sept. 16, 2015
Location: Tokyo, JA

Governor Bill Walker delivered a keynote speech at the opening ceremony of the 4th LNG Producer-Consumer Conference in Tokyo. He and his team also held meetings with the presidents and chief executives of Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS), the world's largest buyer of liquefied natural gas (LNG); Mitsubishi Corporation's natural gas division; GS Energy, which is currently building an LNG terminal in Korea; and Toho Gas, a Nagoya-based company that focuses on supplying eco-friendly sources of energy.
Governor Walker also met with Japan's State Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) Daishiro Yamagiwa. METI sponsored the LNG Producer-Consumer conference, where Governor Walker told the international audience of Alaska's LNG potential.
"I'm here as Governor to explain why Alaska is an incredible opportunity for liquefied natural gas," Governor Walker told the conference attendees. "When oil was discovered in 1969, along with it was discovered gas. The gas was lifted out with the oil, but the gas was re-injected back into the ground for field pressure and because there was no pipeline. It's time that project be completed."
Alaska has 33 trillion cubic feet of proven natural gas reserves, and potentially 250 trillion cubic feet more, Governor Walker told the 1,000 member audience, who traveled from Australia, Qatar, India, France, Singapore, Indonesia, United Kingdom, Taiwan, China, Canada and Argentina.
"As Governor of the great state of Alaska, rather than sitting back, hoping a project happens, we now have an opportunity to push, and that's what we're doing," Governor Walker told the international audience. "We now have a seat at the table and we have the opportunity to work with some of the greatest companies in the world to make this project happen."
On Thursday, Governor Walker and his team will meet with executives of Japan Bank for International Cooperation; Sumitomo Metal Mining; ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips.

Source:
