Public Statements
Administration Implements Healthy Alaska Plan
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Sept. 1, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker and Lieutenant Governor Byron Mallott today announced implementation of the Healthy Alaska Plan, which will help thousands of Alaskans access the health care they need.
"Many Alaskans are working two or three jobs to make ends meet, and have not been able to afford health insurance," Governor Walker said. "The Healthy Alaska Plan ensures that working Alaskans will no longer have to choose between health care and bankruptcy."
Governor Walker also thanked U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Burwell for responding to his July 21 requests for federal support. In her August 31 response to the Governor, Secretary Burwell announced several pending policy changes that will benefit Alaskans and the state treasury.
The first change will increase federal reimbursement, as Governor Walker requested, from 50 percent to 100 percent for medically necessary travel for Medicaid-eligible Alaska Natives and American Indians receiving care in Indian Health Service facilities. This change and other reforms are expected to save the state upwards of $100 million.
"Alaskans who live in rural parts of the state often have to travel long distances for medical care," Lt. Governor Mallott said. "I thank Secretary Burwell for recognizing that without travel, there is no access to health care in many areas of Alaska."
Secretary Burwell also wrote that her agency is working with state officials to identify opportunities for increased federal Medicaid reimbursement for some substance abuse and mental health treatment.
"We are seeing an alarming rise in the number of Alaskans struggling with substance abuse," said Health and Social Services Commissioner Valerie Davidson. "We've seen too many Alaskans self-medicate mental illnesses because they cannot afford proper treatment."
Secretary Burwell committed her agency's requested support for the state's efforts to increase the availability of home- and community-based care so more Alaskans can continue to live in their homes and communities.
Secretary Burwell also agreed to Alaska's request to streamline enrollment for the population newly eligible for Medicaid.. This will ease the cost and burden to the state, and ensure Alaskans timely access to health care.
On July 16, Governor Walker notified the Legislative Budget and Audit Committee of his intent to accept federal and Alaska Mental Health Authority funds to expand Medicaid.
"I'm committed to implementing smart reforms to ensure Medicaid remains a viable and sustainable safety net over the long term," Governor Walker said. "Alaskans deserve no less."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7259
