Public Statements
State Disaster Declared for Sitka Landslides
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Aug. 28, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker declared a state disaster yesterday for landslide-related damages in Sitka, activating the state's public assistance, individual assistance, and temporary housing programs to provide aid to the City and Borough of Sitka in its response and recovery efforts from the August 18th landslides.
Seven landslides hit the region after a 24-hour period of heavy rainfall, causing severe losses and threats to life and property throughout Sitka. The landslides caused significant damage to borough and state roads, power, buildings, and other infrastructure, as well as actual damage and threats to homes requiring evacuation, alternative housing, and sheltering of affected residents.
"Throughout this heartbreaking disaster, the strength of Sitka's community has prevailed," Governor Walker said. "Emergency responders and volunteers have been working diligently to protect the lives and property of their friends and families, and the outpouring of assistance has been unwavering. I am tremendously proud of the kindness and unity Alaskans have displayed during this time of hardship. Sitka will remain in our thoughts and prayers as we provide the city and borough the assistance they need to recover."
The state's public assistance program funds emergency response activities, including temporary and permanent repairs to critical infrastructure. The program is designed to help state, local, and tribal governmental entities, as well as certain private non-profit organizations, restore infrastructure damaged by a specific event to pre-disaster conditions. Funding will be available for emergency protective measures, temporary and permanent repairs to infrastructure, and technical and funding assistance needed to repair or replace damaged facilities.
The state Individual Assistance Individual and Family Grant (IFG) program is designed to provide financial assistance to individuals or families for damages or expenses to primary residence, primary mode of transportation, essential personal property and Medical/funeral/dental needs, created as a direct result of a declared disaster and for which other assistance is either unavailable or inadequate.
Homeowners and renters with homes that are damaged and unlivable may be eligible for state Individual Assistance Temporary Housing in addition to the IFG.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7250
