Public Statements
Governor Walker Visits Sitka Landslide
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Aug. 20, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker directed members of his Disaster Policy Cabinet to expedite their response to the City and Borough of Sitka's disaster declaration today after landslides caused significant damage in the community earlier this week. This action comes after Governor Walker traveled to Sitka yesterday to observe damage caused by the landslides, and to meet with local officials and first responders who are addressing the situation.
While in Sitka, Governor Walker met with friends and family of Ulises and Elmer Diaz, who were painting a house that was caught in the landslide, and with the family of William Stortz, who was inspecting a drainage system in the area. All three men have been declared missing by local officials.
"This has been a very sad week for the people of Sitka. My thoughts and prayers go out to the entire community, and to the loved ones of those who remain missing in the aftermath of the landslides," said Governor Walker. "Tragedies like this are never easy to cope with, but I was heartened to see so many volunteers and first responders working hard to bring comfort to their fellow Sitka residents."
Joined by State Senator Bert Stedman, Sitka Mayor Mim McConnell, City Manager Mark Gorman, and Sitka Fire Chief David Miller, Governor Walker toured the landslide sites from a U.S. Coast Guard helicopter and on the ground, witnessing first-hand the massive amounts of damaged caused by the slides. In all, six landslides and one sinkhole were reported in Sitka on Tuesday after heavy rainfall hit the region on Monday.
While in Sitka, Governor Walker met with local officials to determine how the state could best assist the community in its relief efforts. He assured Senator Stedman and Mayor McConnell that the city's disaster declaration would be addressed quickly, and that the state would dispatch the necessary personnel to support Sitka's recovery efforts.
"I have asked my Disaster Policy Cabinet to review Sitka's disaster declaration request as soon as possible, and provide the necessary resources to help the community respond and rebuild," Governor Walker said. "As Alaskans, we pull together in times of hardship and tragedy. I am confident that residents of Sitka, and the people of Alaska, will pull together to get through this tragedy, and I am fully committed to help in any way I can."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7247
