Public Statements
Gov Urges Oregon Leaders to Stop Protests
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: July 30, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker spoke with Portland Mayor Charlie Hales and the Chief of Staff for Oregon Governor Kate Brown this morning, urging them to stop illegal protesting activities that are preventing Shell's MSV Fennica icebreaker from leaving Portland waters on Thursday. Governor Walker also expressed his concerns in an email to Governor Brown, who is traveling to Washington D.C. today and was unable to speak with him on the phone.
The icebreaker is headed to Alaska to begin Shell's offshore drilling operations in the Chukchi Sea.
"Responsible offshore drilling in Alaska's Arctic could be a significant economic boost for both our state and our nation," said Governor Walker. "While I respect an individual's right to peacefully protest, I urge Mayor Hales and Governor Brown to stop the illegal activities that are blocking Shell's vessel from departing for Alaskan waters."
Governor Walker spoke to Mayor Hales right before the mayor was headed into a meeting with other Oregon officials to discuss the protesters. The mayor assured Governor Walker that he would provide him updates throughout the day as the matter progressed.
In May, Governor Walker toured Shell's Polar Pioneer drill rig in the Port of Seattle to learn about the company's plans for drilling in the Arctic, and safety measures they had put into place to prevent spills from occurring. The Governor was pleased with the information that was provided to him during that tour, and with the technological advancements Shell has made to ensure their rigs are fit for harsh Arctic waters.
"Alaska and the United States have the chance to be leaders in responsible offshore drilling in the Arctic," Governor Walker said. "As our state faces a multi-billion dollar budget deficit, and an oil pipeline that is three-quarters empty, we would be foolish to turn away such a significant economic opportunity. I hope that leaders from outside Alaska can understand and respect that."

Source:
