Public Statements
Gov Appointed to Natural Resources Committee
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: July 28, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Walker wrapped up a week of meetings at the National Governor's Association (NGA) summer conference, where he was able to discuss Alaskan issues with governors from around the country and learn more about the issues affecting other states. At the conference, Governor Walker was appointed to the board of the NGA Center for Best Practices and to the NGA Natural Resources Committee. The Natural Resources Committee is responsible for collaborating and advising federal policy makers on issues related to agriculture, energy, the environment, and natural resources.
"This position ensures that Alaska has a seat at the table when it comes to the federal policies surrounding our valuable natural resources," said Governor Walker. "With some of the highest energy costs in the nation, it is critical for Alaska's leaders to have an influential role in discussions about energy production and consumption in the United States."
During the conference, Governor Walker also met and joined the "Governor's Food and Farm Partnership," a working group which promotes informed food and agriculture policy-making, and encourages awareness of how these industries positively impact our state's economy. The partnership is made up of governors, staff and leading members of the food and agriculture industries from across the country.
"With Alaska facing dramatic fiscal challenges, we need to give support to our agriculture and food production industries," said Governor Walker. "There is great opportunity to expand our state's agricultural footprint, and it is critical to consider the long-term health of this industry. I am eager to participate in discussions about sound policies and support of key stakeholders so we can make Alaska's farming industry a robust one."
In addition to the NGA conference, Governor Walker met with Pentagon officials to talk about maintaining a strong military presence in Alaska, and with Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell about Medicaid expansion in Alaska. He also met with senior White House advisors in Washington DC to discuss President Obama's upcoming visit to Alaska. The Governor continues to build strong relationships with federal officials in order to advocate for the best interests of Alaska.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7236
