Public Statements
Gov Appoints Anchorage Superior Court Judge
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: July 24, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker today announced his appointment of Herman G. Walker, Jr. to the Anchorage Superior Court. Mr. Walker will replace Judge Philip Volland, who is retiring on August 31st after serving on the Anchorage Superior Court for over twelve years.
"It is an honor to put forward Herman Walker's name as Anchorage's newest Superior Court judge," said Governor Walker. "Anchorage is a community that is economically, socially, and ethnically diverse, so it seems only fitting to have a judge whose work experience underscores that same sense of diversity."
An Alaska resident of 23 years and a practicing attorney of 22 years, Mr. Walker has worked in both private practice and the public sector throughout Alaska. For the past 15 years, he has been a partner at Limón & Walker, where he has represented injured parties, criminal defendants, corporations, and family law litigants. Mr. Walker has also worked for the Office of Public Advocacy and the State Public Defender Agency. Additionally, he is a member of the Alaska Bar Association, the Alaska Association for Justice, a founding member of the Alaska Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, and the previous owner of The Body Shop franchise in Anchorage. He received a bachelor degree in political science from Arizona State University, and a juris doctor from the University of Wyoming College of Law.
"After reading the recommendations submitted by his colleagues, it is clear that Herman is highly respected and has a genuine interest in the well-being of others," Governor Walker said. "This combination of skill and empathy will make him an outstanding judge and an asset to the Anchorage community."
Nominated by the Alaska Judicial Council and appointed by the Governor, Mr. Walker will now be one of 42 Superior Court judges in Alaska.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7235
