Public Statements
Gov Declares State Disaster for Kenai Fires
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: June 19, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker declared a state disaster today in response to damages caused by multiple wild land fires on the Kenai Peninsula, including the Card Street Fire near Sterling. To date, the Kenai Peninsula Borough has identified 11 structures as lost to the Card Street Fire, which started June 15. The Stetson Creek and Juneau Lake Fires also continue to burn in the area.
As of Friday, the Kenai Peninsula Borough evacuated hundreds of homes and established emergency shelters for residents displaced by the Card Street Fire. While winds have now shifted away from populated areas, the Card Street Fire has claimed more than 7,500 acres and is now burning in the Kenai National Wildlife Refuge.
"I thank all of the hard working men and women who have put themselves in harm's way to protect life and property for those on the Kenai," said Governor Walker.
The Alaska Division of Forestry, the Alaska National Guard, the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, and the Kenai Peninsula Borough have all deployed resources to aid the effort.
Governor Walker flew over the Card Street Fire on Wednesday to observe its damage, and issued the state disaster declaration today. This action came in response to Borough Mayor Mike Navarre's local disaster declaration and request for state assistance that was delivered yesterday. In issuing the disaster declaration, the state's Public and Individual Assistance programs have been activated.
"By issuing this declaration, we are committed to helping residents on the Kenai Peninsula begin recovering from this tragic event," said Governor Walker. "Beyond our state programs, I have directed the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management to coordinate with other state agencies, federal partners, and non-government charitable organizations to bring all resources to bear."
The state's Public Assistance Program is designed to help state, local and tribal governmental entities, as well as certain private non-profit organizations restore damaged infrastructure to pre-disaster conditions. Funding will be available for emergency protective measures, temporary and permanent repairs to infrastructure, and technical and funding assistance needed to repair or replace damaged facilities.
The state's Individual Assistance is designed to provide financial assistance to individuals or families for damages to primary residence, primary mode of transportation, essential personal property and medical needs created as a direct result of a declared disaster and for which other assistance is either unavailable or inadequate.
Homeowners and renters with homes that are damaged and unlivable may be eligible for state Individual Assistance Temporary Housing.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7216
