Public Statements
Alaska Leaders Seek to Improve Justice System
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: June 17, 2015
Location: Juneau, AK

Alaska today launched a comprehensive review of the state's criminal justice system aimed at developing data-driven reforms to better protect public safety, hold offenders accountable, and control corrections costs. Governor Bill Walker, Chief Justice Dana Fabe, Senate President Kevin Meyer, House Speaker Mike Chenault, and Attorney General Craig Richards have charged the Alaska Criminal Justice Commission with submitting recommendations to the Governor and Legislature in December for consideration during the 2016 legislative session.
"I am confident that we can find ways to make our communities safer and cut the growing cost of our corrections system," said Governor Walker. "With the Criminal Justice Commission, we have the right people and the right process to generate reforms that will improve public safety by keeping violent and career criminals behind bars and directing resources to programs that reduce rates of re-offending."
The state's unified jail and prison population has grown by 27 percent over the past decade, nearly three times faster than the state's resident population. Alaska currently spends over $300 million annually on corrections, up 50 percent since 2005. Despite this prison population and cost, Alaskans are not getting a good return on our investment: nearly two out of every three inmates who leave Alaska's prisons are back to prison or jail within three years.
"Alaska's prisons and jails are filled to capacity. Without reform, the state will have to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to keep up with the growth," said Senate President Meyer. "This process will help us identify the cost-effective, evidence-based policies that work to reduce recidivism and make our state safer."
"We've charged the commission with finding ways Alaska can improve our efforts to prevent crime and recidivism," said House Speaker Chenault. "We need to ensure there's enough prison space for serious and chronic criminals while shifting lower-level offenders to more effective, less expensive alternative sanctions like drug courts, mental health treatment, and intensive supervision."

Source:
