Public Statements
State Disaster Declared for Sockeye Fire Area
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: June 15, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker declared a state disaster in response to widespread damages caused by the Sockeye Fire in Willow and the surrounding region. This action was announced at the Matanuska-Susitna Borough Assembly Chambers after the Governor received a full briefing by Alaska Division of Forestry personnel, and flew over the affected area on Monday afternoon to observe the firefighting efforts underway. So far, the fire has burned more than 6,500 acres.
The Alaska Division of Forestry (DOF), the Alaska National Guard, the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, and the Mat-Su Borough have all deployed resources to aid the effort.
"I am proud of all the agencies, emergency personnel, and volunteers who have been working together and have done a great job in their initial response to the fire," Governor Walker said. "The fire itself has been powerful, but the human response has been equally as powerful. There has been tremendous support from around the state. The disaster declaration will put the borough in a position to have access to necessary resources from around the state."
Governor Walker verbally issued the state disaster declaration today, shortly after the Mat-Su Borough's request. In issuing the declaration, the state's Public and Individual Assistance programs have been activated.
The state's Public Assistance Program is designed to help state, local and tribal governmental entities, as well as certain private non-profit organizations restore damaged infrastructure to pre-disaster conditions. Funding will be available for emergency protective measures, temporary and permanent repairs to infrastructure, and technical and funding assistance needed to repair or replace damaged facilities.
The state's Individual Assistance is designed to provide financial assistance to individuals or families for damages to primary residence, primary mode of transportation, essential personal property and medical needs created as a direct result of a declared disaster and for which other assistance is either unavailable or inadequate.
Homeowners and renters with homes that are damaged and unlivable may be eligible for state Individual Assistance Temporary Housing.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7208
