Public Statements
Governor Restores Alaska Hire Requirements
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: June 10, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker and Department of Labor and Workforce Development Commissioner Heidi Drygas announced today that they will be restoring statewide Alaska Hire standards for publicly-funded infrastructure projects through a Department of Labor and Workforce Development "Zone of Underemployment" determination. Effective July 1, 2015, this determination will ensure that at least 90% of jobs on public projects, such as road construction, are awarded to Alaskans.
"Alaskans know how to build infrastructure, and state funding for public projects should employ Alaskans first," Governor Walker said. "With this Alaska Hire determination, we are restoring a long-standing, non-partisan policy that puts Alaskans to work on important infrastructure projects."
A series of Independent, Republican, and Democratic governors established and maintained Alaska Hire requirements for public projects until the program was terminated in 2013. The Alaska Legislature established clear standards under which Alaska Hire requirements must apply in Alaska Statutes 36.10.140 and 36.10.150. The Alaska Department of Labor and Workforce Development's Research & Analysis Section economic data reveals that Alaska currently meets those conditions.
Alaska Hire requirements apply to a wide range of occupations such as equipment operators, surveyors, truck drivers, welders, laborers, mechanics, engineers and architects. If contractors are unable to locate Alaskans who are trained to complete a job, they must obtain a waiver before hiring non-residents. Workers or contractors with questions about Alaska Hire requirements should contact the Department of Labor and Workforce Development's Wage and Hour office at (907) 269-4900.
The Zone of Underemployment determination is enclosed. Past Alaska Hire determinations from previous administrations are available upon request.

Source:
