Public Statements
Walker Kicks Off Dialogue on Fiscal Future
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: June 4, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

More than 160 Alaskans are heading to Fairbanks to begin a series of conversations tomorrow about the future of our state--and the public is invited to listen, watch and learn along with them.
Building a Sustainable Future: Conversations with Alaskans begins Friday night at the University of Alaska Fairbanks (UAF). Over the course of the weekend, participants will hear from experts within and outside government, and will begin a dialog about what we want from our government, and how we can pay for it going forward.
The event will be open to the public and the media to observe with live web-streaming via 360North, interactive online participation through Cover it Live, and social media connection with #AKFuture on Twitter, Facebook and email.
Beginning at 6 pm Friday, 360 North TV and ARCS TV will air the opening session and provide live web-streaming from UAF's Wood Center Ballroom. After registration and dinner, Governor Bill Walker will kick off the weekend with opening remarks. Participants and the web and TV audience will watch a presentation on Alaska Fiscal Facts and Choices by UAA Institute of Social and Economic Research Director Gunnar Knapp.
The schedule for Saturday and Sunday include facilitated small group discussions, presentations, and an opportunity for Alaskans to focus on a sustainable future. All breakout sessions will be open to the public.
At 2:45 p.m. on Saturday, Alaska Department of Revenue Commissioner Randy Hoffbeck will provide an overview of revenue options and demonstrate new interactive models that participants at UAF and online
will be able to use in their conversations on revenue.
To save money, participants paid for their travel to Fairbanks and are staying in the UAF dorms. More than a dozen legislators have accepted the invitation to come and listen to the discussions that end Sunday
at 2:30 pm. The final general session will air live on 360 North TV and ARCS beginning at 1p.m. on Sunday.
"I am dedicated to maintaining public trust by involving Alaskans in decisions that will affect all of us," Governor Walker said. "Through teamwork and respect for the voices of all Alaskans, we can develop the
best solutions. I'm delighted that so many of our original transition team members will join other Alaskans, Lt. Gov. Mallott and me to focus on this important issue."
This event is just the start of conversations that will continue throughout the state. All general sessions that are web-streamed live will be archived online for Alaskans to use at home or when they host conversations in their communities. The entire production will air multiple times over the summer on 360 North, beginning Sat., June 13th at 10 a.m.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7198
