Public Statements
Governor Walker Signs Two Bills Into Law
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: June 2, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker signed two bills into law today, HB 106 and HB 46. Both bills were passed during the regular session of the 29th Alaska Legislature.
Sponsored by Governor Walker and carried in the Legislature by Representative Gabrielle LeDoux of Anchorage and Senator John Coghill of North Pole, HB 106 updates the Uniform Interstate Family Support Act (UIFSA) to allow the state to collect child support from parents living outside the United States. The bill ensures the continued collection of over $100 million in child support that goes to needy families, and $19 million in federal funding for the state's Child Support Services Division. Additionally, HB 106 ensures the state is in federal compliance with child support requirements in order to receive a more than $45 million block grant to fund Alaska's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) State Plan.
"I want to thank Representative LeDoux and Senator Coghill for shepherding this bill through the Legislative process ," said Governor Walker. "HB 106 provides greater security for Alaskan families, and what's good for Alaska's families is good for Alaska."
HB 46, which was sponsored by Representative Dan Saddler of Eagle River, changes one seat on the Alaska Workforce Investment Board from a private sector seat to a seat represented by a veteran. Adding veteran representation to the board will allow them to better serve Alaska's significant and growing veteran population re-entering the workforce.
"Our service men and women sacrifice so much for their country. It's only appropriate that we help them find jobs and increase their professional skills when they're transitioning out of the military," said Governor Walker. "I commend Representative Saddler for his recognition of this important issue, and his work on HB 46.."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7197
