Public Statements
Governor Walker Defends Alaska's Economy
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: May 28, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker visited Washington to tour Shell's Polar Pioneer offshore drill rig that is headed for Alaska waters this summer. While in Seattle yesterday, Governor Walker also met with Washington Governor Jay Inslee in an effort to voice his support for responsible offshore drilling in the Arctic.
"I want to thank the people of Shell and Foss Maritime for hosting me this afternoon, and Governor Inslee for taking the time to meet with me on an important issue," Governor Walker said. "Responsible offshore drilling in the Arctic will have significant economic impacts in Alaska, and I am encouraged by the advancements I saw today."
Following his trip to the North Slope last week, Governor Walker used the tour as an opportunity to learn more about the offshore drilling technology and safety measures that are in place to prevent spills from occurring. After the tour, Governor Walker said he is confident Alaska can and should be a leader in responsible offshore oil and gas development.
"Having lived through the Exxon Valdez oil spill, I understand the need for extra precautionary measures when developing our resources in such a pristine environment," Governor Walker said. "I was pleased with the technological advancements Shell has underway to ensure this drill rig is fit for the harsh waters of the Arctic."
Governor Walker expressed these sentiments during his meeting with Governor Inslee, and reminded the Washington governor of the financial benefits Alaska would gain from drilling in the Arctic. While his intention was not to change Governor Inslee's mind on the subject, Governor Walker said it was important for his Washington counterpart to understand Alaska's perspective.
"I explained to Governor Inslee that the oil industry is to Alaska what Microsoft, Boeing and Amazon is to Washington," Governor Walker said. "As our state faces a $3.5 billion deficit, with an oil pipeline that is three-quarters empty, we can't turn away such a significant economic opportunity. Offshore drilling in the Arctic will happen. The question is whether Alaska can establish revenue-sharing with the federal government as do other coastal states such as Florida and Louisiana."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7188
