Public Statements
Governor Walker Signs Three Bills Into Law
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: May 27, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker signed HB 135, HB 131 and SB 46 into law yesterday during bill-signing events at his Anchorage office. The bills were passed during the first session of the 29th Alaska Legislature.
Sponsored by Governor Walker and carried by Representative Cathy Munoz and Senator Dennis Egan, HB 135 creates a post-tax Roth investment option for public employees. The new law will provide state employees with greater certainty in their retirement plan by allowing them to pay taxes on those contributions upfront rather than at the time of disbursement.
"This bill is something that state employees asked for, and I want to thank the Legislature for taking it up this session," Governor Walker said. "By giving employees the ability to pay taxes on their retirement contributions now, we are providing them with more flexibility and control of their retirement in the future."
HB 131, which was sponsored by Representative Lynn Gattis, changes the educational and training requirements for obtaining a manicurist license from 12 hours to 250 hours. Previously, Alaska required the least amount of training in the country for a nail technician, with all other states requiring between 240 and 1,000 training hours.
"HB 131 will increase the health and safety of nail salon customers by ensuring technicians are well-trained for the job," Governor Walker said. "I commend Representative Gattis for bringing forward this important issue."
Sponsored by Senator Lyman Hoffman and Representative Bob Herron, SB 46 authorizes the Alaska Municipal Bond Bank Authority to issue up to $205 million in bonds to Regional Health Organizations to increase access to quality healthcare throughout Alaska. Under the new law, Regional Health Organizations will have access to low-interest financing through the bond bank for up to 49 percent of all project costs. The bill also allows bonds to be issued to joint action agencies to fund public utility projects, such as hydroelectric power plants.
"I want to thank Representative Herron and Senator Hoffman for introducing this important piece of legislation," Governor Walker said. "This bill will give more Alaskans access to quality healthcare, and in turn promotes healthier communities throughout our state."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7186
