Public Statements
Governor Walker Concludes Trip to North Slope
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: May 22, 2015
Location: Deadhorse, AK

Governor Bill Walker is wrapping up his three-day trip to the North Slope today after visiting new drill sites at Prudhoe Bay, Kuparuk, Alpine and Point Thomson; touring the North Slope Borough's new water treatment facility; and observing flood damage on the Dalton Highway. This is Governor Walker's first trip to the North Slope since taking office.
"This is something I have wanted to do since the day I was sworn in," Governor Walker said. "Often, I only get the chance to meet with a few high-level industry representatives who visit me in Juneau. Being able to talk to the workers at the drill sites and on the drill rigs gives me a better perspective when I'm having discussions about oil and gas development on the North Slope."
Governor Walker spent a day at facilities with each major producer, including Kuparuk and Alpine with ConocoPhillips, Point Thomson with ExxonMobil, and Prudhoe Bay with BP. Each visit gave the governor a chance to see firsthand the new technology being used and the opportunity to meet with the workers who oversee operations.
Prior to the trip, Governor Walker met with the presidents of Caelus Energy, Hilcorp, Armstrong Oil and Gas, and other exploration and production companies.
Governor Walker also met with North Slope Borough Mayor Charlotte Brower, and toured the borough's new water treatment facility in Deadhorse. Governor Walker said he will return to Juneau with a great deal of enthusiasm about activity in the region and the opportunities that lie ahead.
"All too often, the focus is on declining production on the North Slope," Governor Walker said. "Over the past three days, I have seen three new drill sites at different stages of construction, new hotels and buildings, and people hard at work during all hours of the day. It needs to be made clear: Alaska's North Slope is open for business and remains one of the best investments in the world."

Source:
