Public Statements
Gov Walker Signs Two Bills In Mat-Su
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: May 20, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker signed HB 153 and HB 161 into law yesterday while at bill-signing receptions in the Mat-Su. Both bills were passed during the regular session of the 29th Alaska Legislature.
Sponsored by Representative Jim Colver of Palmer, HB 153 adds three state-owned sections of land, approximately 2,900 acres, to the Palmer Hay Flats State Game Refuge. Located at the head of Cook Inlet, these lands will now be formally protected for future generations to use for outdoor recreation and educational opportunities. Governor Walker signed the bill into law at Machetanz Elementary School in Palmer before students, staff, and community members. Earlier this year, students from the school wrote to their legislators in support of HB 153 and followed its progress as a way to learn about state government.
"I applaud the students and staff at Machetanz for getting involved in their local government, and voicing their support for such an important piece of legislation," Governor Walker said. "I also want to recognize Representative Colver for his work on this bill. Thanks to the dedication of this group, more Alaskans will be able to enjoy the Palmer Hay Flats State Refuge."
HB 161, which was sponsored by Representative Lynn Gattis from Wasilla and Senator Bill Stoltze of Chugiak, allows the Department of Health and Social Services to require the purchase of used or refurbished durable medical equipment under certain circumstances. Previously, the department was only able to purchase new equipment, even though used equipment was available and could equally meet the needs of recipients.
"I want to thank Representative Gattis and Senator Stoltze for bringing forward this important cost-cutting measure," Governor Walker said. "During a time when we are facing a $4 billion deficit, it's important that we look at many different ways to tighten our belts. HB 161 accomplishes that."
Governor Walker signed HB161 into law at Wasilla Senior Center.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7182
