Public Statements
Governor Walker SIgns Four Bills Into Law
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: May 15, 2015
Location: Juneau, AK

Governor Bill Walker signed into law yesterday House Bill 70, House Bill 4, House Bill 15, and House Bill 26, which the 29th Alaska Legislature passed during its first session.
HB 70, sponsored by Representative Adam Wool of Fairbanks, adds four state-owned parcels of land to the Creamer's Field Migratory Waterfowl Refuge.. Under the law, the lands will now be available to the public for various outdoor activities, and managed by the Department of Fish and Game. This same bill was passed during the 28th Legislature but was vetoed because of errors made in legal descriptions of the parcels.
"I want to personally thank Representative Wool for his tenacity and attention to detail so this bill could be signed into law," Governor Walker said. "Alaskans will now have more protected lands to hunt, fish, hike, and enjoy the outdoors."
HB 4, sponsored by Representative Tammie Wilson of North Pole, reduces the liability of those who acquire and provide automated external defibrillators, which are automated medical devices used to restore normal cardiac rhythm during sudden cardiac arrest. This legislation was drafted at the request of the Alaska Fire Chiefs Association in an effort to encourage increased availability of AEDs in Alaska.
Representative Wilson also sponsored HB 15, which allows the courts to give credit towards a prison sentence for time spent in a community-based treatment program or under electronic monitoring. Under the new law, defendants will be able to stay productive in their communities while working to reduce their time in jail, potentially saving the state money.
"Representative Wilson's bills will allow more Alaskans to live healthy, productive lives," Governor Walker said. "I commend her for that work."
HB 26, sponsored by Representative Kurt Olson of Soldotna, extends the board of certified direct-entry midwives through June 30, 2017. The bill also requires the legislative audit division to submit an interim report to the legislature about the board's compliance with recommendations of the June 30, 2014 legislative audit.
"This law will protect more Alaskan women by ensuring their midwives have the proper qualifications and training to practice in this state," Governor Walker said. "I want to thank Representative Olson for his work on this important issue, and for bringing it forward as legislation."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7177
