Public Statements
Governor Walker Signs Eight Bills Into Law
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: May 12, 2015
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker signed yesterday afternoon eight pieces of legislation on topics ranging from road service boundaries and tire fee tax returns, to immunization certification and victim compensation.
"This has been an exciting week with multiple bills being sent over for my signature," Governor Walker said. "I commend members of the Legislature for their work on such a broad range of issues. Each of these bills affects real Alaskans in their everyday lives."
In addition to HB 1, the State Arctic Policy bill sponsored by Representative Bob Herron, Governor Walker signed the following bills into law yesterday:
SB 5 -- Sponsored by Senator Peter Micciche, this bill allows courts to order a defendant to compensate a victim of property crime for loss of income as part of a court-ordered restitution.
SB 15 -- Sponsored by Senator John Coghill, this bill reduces the tax on individual life insurance policy premiums exceeding $100,000 from 0.10 percent to 0.08 percent in order to spur the growth of individual life insurance policies in Alaska.
SB 19 -- Sponsored by Senator Coghill at the request of the Fairbanks North Star Borough, this bill adds two exceptions to state law for adjusting boundaries of a road service area without a vote of the residents residing in that particular service area.
SB 33 -- Sponsored by Governor Walker, this bill changes the due date for tire fee tax returns to eliminate confusion and reduce unnecessary fines on taxpayers. The new due date for tire fee tax returns will be the last day of the month following each calendar quarter.
SB 34 -- Sponsored by Governor Walker, this bill allows the Department of Revenue Commissioner to invest in the power cost equalization (PCE) endowment fund in a manner likely to achieve a 4 percent nominal return over a five-year period. Previously, the fund required a return target of at least 7 percent, requiring the commissioner to invest with excessive and undue risk in a low-rate environment.

Source:
