Public Statements
Gov Directs Review Of Websecurity Procedures
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: April 19, 2015
Location: Juneau, AK

Premera Blue Cross Blue Shield of Alaska, the largest health care insurer in Alaska, announced a nationwide cybersecurity breach affecting 11 million people, including 700,000 Alaskans. Among those affected are approximately 80,000 current and former State of Alaska employees. Premera has begun mailing letters to affected individuals and is providing two years of free credit monitoring and identity theft protection services to those affected.
The Walker administration was notified on Tues., March 17, 2015, of the breach, which occurred May 5, 2014.
Governor Bill Walker urged all Alaskans to enroll in the credit monitoring and identity theft products offered by Premera.
"An IT security breach is a threat that has the potential to have a huge impact," said Governor Walker, "I have instructed State of Alaska departments to review their cybersecurity procedures and those of the companies we do business with to see what we can do to protect Alaskans."
Premera has established a website (www.premeraupdate.com) to provide the most up-to-date information and links to the credit monitoring and identity theft protection services being offered to anyone affected by the incident. Premera has also established a dedicated call center for questions related to the incident. The data compromised in the Premera breach dates back to 2002 and includes the names, dates of birth, addresses, social security numbers, email addresses, health identification numbers, health information and, in limited circumstances, bank account information. Individuals who believe they are affected by this cyberattack but who have not received a letter by April 20, 2015 are encouraged to call the number listed on the Premera website.
This announcement comes a few weeks after the announcement of a similar attack on Anthem, another provider of medical insurance that impacted approximately 34,000 Alaskans.

Source:
