Public Statements
Governor Walker Appoints AGDC Board Members
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: March 13, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Bill Walker today appointed three new members to the Alaska Gasline Development Corporation's Board of Directors. Governor Walker also detailed his plans to upsize and increase the volume of the Alaska Stand Alone Pipeline (ASAP), as well as continue development of the Alaska Liquefied Natural Gas (AK LNG) project.
Governor Walker wrote in his recently published editorial:
"What it comes down to is this: We will work with the producers to continue to develop the AK LNG project. With ASAP, we will work with gas buyers to secure the opportunities the market offers. Whichever project is first to produce a solid plan, and conditions acceptable to the state, will get the state's full support. Or, perhaps the two projects could be combined at some point along the way."
Governor Walker said he is confident his newly appointed AGDC team will help Alaska to be the owner state it is meant to be.
Rick Halford of Dillingham, Joe Paskvan of Fairbanks and Hugh Short of Anchorage (formerly the mayor of Bethel) will join AGDC's governing body, which oversees efforts to develop liquefied natural gas in Alaska.
"I am pleased to welcome these three talented Alaskans to our team," said Governor Walker. "Bringing our natural gas to Alaskans and the world market is one of my top priorities as Governor. I am confident that with these additional members, the AGDC Board is on track to make that happen."
Rick Halford of Dillingham has a long history in state government. He served 24 years in the Alaska State Legislature. During that time he chaired a number of committees in both the House and Senate, and retired as Senate President in 2003. Halford is a retired commercial pilot and air taxi operator. He holds a bachelor's degree in political science from Alaska Methodist University.
Joe Paskvan of Fairbanks is a private practice lawyer who has more than 30 years of experience in civil litigation. He served in the Alaska State Senate from 2009 to 2013. During that time, Paskvan served as chair of the Senate labor and commerce committee and co-chair of the Senate resources committee, where he focused on oil and gas issues in Alaska. Born and raised in Fairbanks, Paskvan earned a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Alaska Fairbanks, and a juris doctor from the University of Puget Sound School of Law.
Hugh Short is an Inupiat Eskimo, born and raised in Bethel, who has spent his career creating and operating successful businesses in the Arctic. Short serves as the Chairman and CEO of Pt Capital, a financial services company based in Anchorage. Short also served as the Chairman of the Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority Board of Directors, and as the President and CEO of Alaska Growth Capital. He also served as mayor of Bethel from 2002 to 2004. Short received a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Alaska Anchorage.
AGDC is governed by a seven-member board of directors, which includes five public members and two commissioners. Upon confirmation by the Legislature, Governor Walker's three appointees will join John Burns of Fairbanks, Dave Cruz of Palmer, Department of Labor Commissioner Heidi Drygas, and Acting Commerce Commissioner Fred Parady on the board.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7082
