Public Statements
Gov. Issues Administrative Order on Energy
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Jan. 16, 2015
Location: Juneau, AK

Today Governor Bill Walker issued an Administrative Order addressing the collaboration and coordination of the state's consumer energy efforts. These actions come in response to feedback Governor Walker received from his consumer energy transition team, which recommended having a cabinet-level official facilitate the collaboration of government agencies and other entities working on consumer energy in Alaska.
The order directs the commissioner of Commerce, Community and Economic Development to take the lead on improving collaboration and coordination on consumer energy in Alaska. With numerous state agencies and other organizations working in this field, the Governor hopes to increase productivity among the groups.
"During the transition process, Alaskans shared their ideas on improving consumer energy efforts in our state," said Governor Walker. "I took that advice to heart, and have assigned a member of my cabinet to bring the appropriate parties together to find solutions for reducing Alaska's energy costs."
In addition to statewide collaboration, the order directs the Department of Natural Resources to work with the Alaska Industrial Development Export Authority (AIDEA) to assess potential natural gas supplies for an Interior energy development project. In recent years, AIDEA had been working to deliver natural gas to Interior residents through the Interior Energy Project. That project was terminated earlier this month due to higher than anticipated costs. By directing DNR to work with AIDEA to find other potential natural gas supplies, Governor Walker is putting state resources towards assisting efforts in order to find new solutions for the energy disaster facing the Interior.
"I am pleased that AIDEA and other project participants are continuing to look for viable solutions to the Interior's high energy costs," Governor Walker said. "I will continue to work closely with the highest levels of my staff and cabinet to expedite these efforts and relieve the burden facing Interior residents."

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7056
