Public Statements
Marijuana Regulations will be Issued on Time
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Dec. 30, 2014
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker met recently with leaders from the Department of Commerce, Community and Economic Development (DCCED), the Department of Revenue and the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board to discuss the timeline and implementation of the act to tax and regulate the production, sale and use of marijuana.
"We have strong, cooperative leadership heading up implementation of this very important act," Governor Walker said. "They assured me that we can meet the statutory and regulatory timelines outlined in the initiative that voters passed in November. I'm confident that we will be diligent in our efforts to make sure we have adequate regulations for this new industry in place and on time."
Governor Walker said he is pleased that staff members are working across departments to share expertise in creating innovative solutions that are also cost-efficient.
The citizens' initiative that was passed November 4, 2014 set out a clear timeline and tasked the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board--or a new Marijuana Control Board, if established by the legislature--to implement the initiative. The board will be housed within DCCED, which is leading the interdepartmental effort to adopt regulations for a smooth and successful launch of the industry, while at the same time upholding public safety and supporting public health.
The Department of Public Safety, the Department of Health and Social Services and the Department of Environmental Conservation are working closely with DCCED to ensure seamless enforcement.
The initiative goes into effect on February 24, 2015. The board has until November 24, 2015 to adopt regulations and anticipates accepting applications for marijuana licenses by February 24, 2016. The board expects the initial industry licenses to be awarded by late May 2016.
For a full implementation timeline, view the frequently asked questions. Interested individuals can also register to be notified when the FAQs are updated and when the public comment period is scheduled.
Reporters with questions on implementation should contact ABC Director Cindy Franklin at 269-0351.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/Walker/press-room/full-press-release.html?pr=7052
