Public Statements
Issue Position: Disaster Preparedness
Issue Position
By: Bill Walker
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Disaster preparedness is an issue that all should be aware of and concerned about. Alaska is unique in our geographic location. We are in a tectonically active section of the earth. We have many volcanoes that are active. The 1964 earthquake of 9.2 magnitude stands as one of the major earthquake events in history. Each year there are major floods that interrupt lives and damage property. Wildfire is a very real threat, especially given the massive spruce kill off by spruce beetles. Alaska has few roads and fewer assets to respond to major disasters.
Alaska itself has changed. We now have gangs in our major communities. Our police and fire response will be sorely taxed in any major disaster event. The War on Terror will continue to take National Guard and full time federal military assets for federal duty. Therefore, there can never be enough first responders to safeguard Alaskans. However, I believe that trained volunteers can be an effective asset in disaster response.
When our military assets are unavailable, we have volunteer organizations such as Civil Air Patrol and the Alaska State Defense Force that can be utilized to fill the gap and hold the line. ASDF has proven itself in floods, homeland defense missions and police safety and welfare in fire response. Civil Air Patrol has a distinguished record in search and rescue and disaster response support.
My Administration will work to reform the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs to better respond to a disaster event and to make better use of volunteer assets. I will reverse the decision by the Parnell Administration to relegate the Alaska State Defense Force to an ineffective status. I will order the restoration of ASDF as a State emergency response asset under the State Emergency Operations Plan and restore ASDF to its status as a police asset pursuant to AS 26.05.070. ASDF has proven itself time and again. As was demonstrated with the Houston and Valdez flood response and the post Hooper Bay Fire disaster response, Alaska needs a State military asset independent of the federal government for those times when our National Guard is performing national missions.

Source:
