Public Statements
Issue Position: State Government
Issue Position
By: Bill Walker
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Government that governs least is best. The growth of State government is unacceptable.
I will work with the Legislature to limit the growth of State government. There must be a paradigm shift that moves the driving force behind the economy of Alaska to the private sector. In Alaska, government drives the economy and oil fuels government. This situation must be replaced with a private sector growth driven economy. Further, State government must be limited to those functions that are set forth by our State Constitution.
As example of my intent to require State government to better serve Alaskans, the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs will be restored to civilian control. The office of the Commissioner, DMVA will be restored as the top management at DMVA over both military and civilian departments. The office of the Adjutant General will be returned to management of the National Guard assets, only. It is a principle of our republican form of government that the military is subordinate to civilian control.
I will eliminate unnecessary and duplicative state bureaucracy. An example is the Climate Change Sub-Cabinet. Another example of possible duplication of efforts and function is the Oil and Gas Advisor, Pipeline Coordinator and the recently created pipeline committee under HB369.
Open and transparent government is my goal, not just a catch phrase.
I promise that I will work to correct oversights and deficiencies and to eliminate duplications of services within State government to the best of my ability. I will make it a policy to put Alaskans first when they contact their State government with questions and needs.
FOIA requests will not be treated with unreasonable delays by the State under my Administration. I will make it a policy that only those exceptions set forth under AS 40.25.120 will result in any alteration to a document or denial of a FOIA request. Otherwise, FOIA requests will be completed in a timely manner.
Alaskans are known for their self-reliance, determination, innovation and independence. It is time government let them realize their dreams by being as unobtrusive as possible.
The reality is that Alaska faces a fiscal crisis of catastrophic proportions if the all-Alaska natural gas pipeline is not constructed to provide maximum benefit to Alaskans. TAPS production is declining rapidly. When Alaska runs out of oil, there will be little money to provide for disaster preparedness or any other State service and responsibility.
It is imperative that we build the all-Alaska natural gas pipeline to provide funding for State services.

Source: http://www.billwalkerforgovernor.com/on-the-issues/state-government/
