Public Statements
Governor Walker and Attorney General Applaud Review of EPA's Waters of the U.S. Rule
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: March 1, 2017
Location: Juneau, AK

Governor Bill Walker and Attorney General Jahna Lindemuth applauded the Trump administration's announcement yesterday that it will take a critical look at the waters of the United States rule adopted by the Environmental Protection Agency in 2015. In December, Attorney General Lindemuth co-signed a letter with 26 other states to then Vice President-Elect Mike Pence urging the incoming administration to withdraw the 2015 rule and work with the states on a more sensible solution.
"Protecting our water and the environment are critical, but all the previous administration did with this rule was expand its own bureaucracy," said Governor Walker. "While in Washington, D.C. this week, I had the opportunity to meet with new EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. I am confident Administrator Pruitt recognizes Alaska's uniqueness, and hope the new administration develops a replacement rule that truly respects the rights of all states."
The State of Alaska filed a lawsuit with 11 other states in 2015 challenging the new "waters of the United States" rule adopted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the Corps). The rule attempted to define what waters are covered by the Clean Water Act, resulting in the need for a federal permit. However, instead of clarifying federal law, the rule left states with more questions. The courts have put implementation of the rule on hold while the cases work their way through the judicial system.
"The EPA's 2015 rule has detrimental impacts on Alaska, and would greatly expand what waters fall under federal jurisdiction," said Attorney General Lindemuth. "The recent announcement that the rule will be looked at and possibly repealed is great news for our state.
The State will actively engage with the new administration as it reviews the rule, and work with other states to ensure any changes to the rule address states' concerns.

Source:
