Public Statements
Issue Position: Medicaid Reform and Expansion
Issue Position
By: Bill Walker
Date: Jan. 1, 2017
Location: Unknown

Dear Alaskan
Thank you for your interest in Medicaid reform and expansion. I'm pleased to introduce legislation that will improve the lives of Alaskans.
My administration's reform and expansion bill is
Healthy for Alaskans -- extending health coverage to up to 42,000 low-income Alaskans;
Healthy for our economy -- bringing in $146 million in new federal money in FY 16, and over $1 billion by FY 21
Healthy for the state's general fund budget -- state general fund savings begin with more than $6 million in FY 16; and
A catalyst for reform --the bill lays out a path to Medicaid reform that will save Alaska millions of dollars and ensure our Medicaid program is affordable over the long term.
As Alaskans, we pay into the federal treasury. We lobby for every federal dollar we can get for transportation, education and military -- our health and health infrastructure is just as critical. I'm committed to claiming Alaska's share of federal Medicaid money.
My bill takes advantage of federal resources to pay for health care costs that we end up paying for one way or another. When hospitals provide care no one pays for, we all pay through higher medical bills and insurance premiums.
Our legislation includes a provision opting out of the expansion if the state's match ever goes above 10 percent. I received a letter from Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Burwell confirming our right to do this.
Throughout my campaign, Alaskans across the state asked me to accept this federal money. Dozens of Alaska organizations are on record supporting Medicaid reform and expansion -- because it makes sense.
This is where you come in. My commissioner of health and social services, Valerie Davidson, is working tirelessly to bring these benefits to Alaska. We can't do it alone.
Please contact your legislator and ask them to support my administration's Medicaid reform and expansion bill. It's the right thing to do.
With warm regards,
Gov. Bill Walker

Source: https://gov.alaska.gov/administration-focus/medicaid-reform-and-expansion/about-the-bill/
