Public Statements
Walker-Mallott Administration Selects No-Build Alternative for Juneau Access
Statement
By: Bill Walker
Date: Dec. 15, 2016
Location: Juneau, AK

Governor Bill Walker and Lieutenant Governor Byron Mallott today announced the selection of the no-build alternative for the Juneau Access Improvements project. The decision not to build the proposed 50-mile road extension from Juneau to a yet to be built ferry terminal does not preclude other transportation improvements in the northern Lynn Canal corridor.
Governor Walker acknowledged that many will be disappointed with this decision.
"I am a builder by background and understand the importance of construction projects, but I am very concerned with our current multi-billion dollar fiscal crisis and must prioritize the need for fiscal resolution," Governor Walker said. "I'm grateful to the many great Alaskans who shared their knowledge and perspectives with me about this issue. I listened and learned from all of you. I flew the route and spoke with lots of folks equally divided on this project. I made this difficult decision after reviewing all litigation and all federal regulatory decisions on this project to date. Above all, I was reminded that Southeast Alaska communities are deeply interconnected, with or without roads, and I pledge to do what I can to support and strengthen those critical economic and social ties."
Governor Walker will take steps to ensure that the $38 million in remaining state funds for the project will be available for other transportation and capital projects in the area. Governor Walker committed to working with Juneau and the surrounding regional communities to determine the best use of those dollars. Federal construction dollars have not been appropriated for the project.
"I participated in many of the dozens of Juneau Access meetings initiated by Governor Walker," said Lt. Governor Byron Mallott, a long-time Southeast resident. "The review was exhaustive and thorough. Alaska's need for fiscal certainty loomed large throughout and in that light the correct decision was made."
The state is working closely with federal highway officials and does not anticipate having to repay any federal funds spent to date on the project. The studies and work done to date will be available for future use.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/newsroom/2016/12/walker-mallott-administration-selects-no-build-alternative-for-juneau-access/
