Public Statements
Walker-Mallott Administration Applauds Collaboration between Ahtna and Department of Interior
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: Nov. 29, 2016
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker and Lieutenant Governor Byron Mallott congratulate the Ahtna Intertribal Resource Commission (AITRC) and the U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) in finalizing an agreement that provides for greater collaboration on game management issues affecting Ahtna communities. The agreement will apply to federal public lands, which are overseen by the Federal Subsistence Board.
"Ahtna has long-standing concerns about the rules governing the subsistence hunt and the availability of food resources to tribal communities in the Ahtna region," Governor Walker said. "It is encouraging to see DOI engaging with Ahtna and its tribes and exercising the flexibility provided by federal law to address those concerns."
Looking to the state's role in game management, Lt. Governor Mallott noted: "We are optimistic that Alaska's Board of Game, the Department of Fish and Game, and the Federal Subsistence Board will find new opportunities to coordinate the state and federal game management systems and ensure that those Alaskans most in need have access to critical subsistence resources. We appreciate AITRC and DOI including the state in the development of the agreement to lay groundwork for that future collaboration."
Generally, the Alaska Board of Game and the Department of Fish and Game are responsible for game management in the state. However, under the Alaska National Interest Lands Act (ANILCA), the Federal Subsistence Board oversees the subsistence hunt on federal public lands and provides priority access to rural residents. ANILCA also contemplates cooperative agreements between the federal government and tribal governments and Alaska Native Corporations in fulfilling responsibilities under ANILCA.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/newsroom/2016/11/walker-mallott-administration-applauds-collaboration-between-ahtna-and-department-of-interior/
