Public Statements
Governor Walker Signs Bills Supporting Alaska's Children and Families
Press Release
By: Bill Walker
Date: July 26, 2016
Location: Anchorage, AK

Governor Bill Walker signed into law today House Bill 200, which streamlines legal proceedings involving children in foster care, as well as House Bill 27, which offers a number of strategies to improve the child welfare system and provide for expanded independent living opportunities for older youth transitioning to adulthood.
"Our children are Alaska's most valuable resource," Governor Walker said. "Each and every one deserves the best possible start in life we can give them. These bills represent measurable movement in that direction."
House Bill 200 was sponsored by Governor Walker, working in close collaboration with the Alaska Federation of Natives and Tribes. The bill is designed to correct and minimize recent legal barriers that were put in place for families interested in adopting Alaska Native children following the U.S Supreme Court Baby Girl Veronica decision and the Tununak litigation in the Alaska Supreme Court.
HB 200 also:
combines up to four legal proceedings within one judge's purview
helps to more formally recognize and identify extended family members of children in care
reduces barriers for all family members, but particularly those family members of a child covered under the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) who want to preserve and have the court apply their adoptive placement preference.
"Alaska has long valued the importance of family and cultural connections for children in custody of the Office of Children's Services," said Valerie Nurr'araaluk Davidson, Commissioner of the Department of Health and Social Services. "This bill will increase the number of Alaska children -- especially Alaska Native children -- who are able to be placed immediately and permanently, with their family, culture and traditions. Additionally, this bill creates a much-needed "one family-one judge' approach, in which all matters related to the child and the family are consolidated to one judge. This is expected to create efficiencies for the legal processes and support families through difficult times. This important bill for Alaska children and their families shows what Tribal, state, and federal agencies can accomplish by working together with the public."
House Bill 27, the Child Protection and Opportunity Act, was sponsored by Representative Les Gara from Anchorage. One of the bill's mandates is that the Office of Children's Services have an active and ongoing effort to recruit for foster and adoptive parents when shortages exist, aligning Alaska statute with the federal mandate which calls for "diligent recruitment."
HB 27 also:
imposes additional requirements on the Department of Health and Social Services (DHSS) when making placement decisions
mandates that DHSS shall continue to search for suitable adoptive or permanent legal guardianship for a child in custody who is under 21 years of age
changes the age and requires consent for a person, age 19 or older, to be released from DHSS's custody
adds dormitory placements to the statute as a legal placement option, important for youth ready for higher education
makes changes to statutes governing the confidentiality of departmental records
changes the procedure for releasing a youth from state custody.

Source: http://gov.alaska.gov/newsroom/2016/07/governor-walker-signs-bills-supporting-alaskas-children-and-families/
