Public Statements
Union Leader - Kasich confident as primary nears, says he's the 'little engine that keeps coming along'
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: Jan. 8, 2016
Location: Exeter, NH

By Jason Schreiber
Ohio Gov. John Kasich was quick to reply when a man in the crowd of about 200 welcomed him to New Hampshire Friday night.
"I live here, man," Kasich joked during a campaign stop at the Exeter Inn Friday night.
The Republican presidential candidate who marked his 50th New Hampshire town hall meeting this week was back at it Friday, speaking to a crowd that spilled into the hallway at the popular inn.
While New Hampshire polls show him trailing billionaire frontrunner Donald Trump, Sens. Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz, and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Kasich appeared confident that he could climb in the weeks leading up to next month's New Hampshire Primary.
"I'm like a little engine that keeps coming along," Kasich told the crowd.
He loves holding town hall meetings here, he said, adding that people don't care whether he's famous or has money.
"New Hampshire could be renamed Cape Canaveral. You launch people into the conscience of America," he said.
Kasich took several questions from the audience ranging from concerns about Social Security and the retirement age to bringing manufacturing jobs back and fighting terrorism.
Kasich said the growing ISIS terror group must be destroyed with a coalition.
He also voiced concerns about North Korea.
"We have to let the Chinese know even though we have disputes with them that they are not our enemy and we expect them to straighten that regime out. They have the leverage. They need to fix North Korea," he said.
The cost of higher education was on the mind of one senior from Phillips Exeter Academy who worried about how he'll pay for college. He said he's been looking at colleges that could cost $50,000 to $60,000 a year.
Kasich suggested several ways to cut costs, including taking the community college route for at least a couple of years to save money.
He said the "biggest exploding cost of higher education" isn't teacher salaries but administration and overhead costs.
"Get them under control," he said.
He also spoke about the importance of job training, saying there are thousands of job openings in Ohio but employers can't find people with the skills to take them.
At one point, he referred to high school guidance counselors, saying they shouldn't be monitoring lunch rooms and "rolling basketballs out."

Source: http://www.unionleader.com/article/20160109/NEWS0605/160109220
