Public Statements
Issue Position: Embracing Technology: Taking Ohio to Where We Need to Be in The 21st Century
Issue Position
By: John Kasich
Date: Jan. 1, 2017
Location: Unknown

Strategic Investments in Emerging Technologies, Such as Self-Driving/Connected Vehicles, Drones and Data Analytics, Will Improve Government Services, Spur Economic Growth
Our nation's most successful business operations and entrepreneurships have one strategy in common: they are all embracing technology. Unfortunately, government at every level has failed to match that pace, being too slow or too unwilling to keep up with a rapidly changing world. As a result, the public sector has lost momentum in the way it operates, spends money and serves its citizens. But in recent years, under Governor John Kasich's leadership, Ohio has been working to build a much different model, one that keeps government ahead of the curve with advances in technology that lead with innovative, forward-looking improvements in its programs and makes strategic investments in technologies that encourage economic growth. In fact, Ohio was one of only five states to recently earn an "A" from industry experts for its work to advance technology.* With his Executive Budget proposal, Gov. Kasich continues to build on that model with a number of new or expanded initiatives.
*Center for Digital Government and Government Technology magazine, September 2016.
Unlocking the Full Power of State Government's Data Resources: The new budget takes the benefits of advanced data analytics to the next level, requiring all state agencies, boards and commissions to share the data they now store in more than 1,600 separate databases. By better connecting and correlating these individual data resources and applying advanced analytical technologies, the state can tackle complex problems with solutions that improve Ohioans' health, security and well-being. While in each instance a database holds valuable uses for its specific program, it is presently rare -- and often technically difficult -- for that information to be systematically examined in any depth, cross-analyzed with other databases or shared with other agencies in ways that can help address more holistically such statewide problems as infant mortality, child welfare issues, opiate addiction, persistent poverty, and school dropout rates.

Source:
