Public Statements
Kasich Signs Six Bills
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: Dec. 13, 2016
Location: Columbus, OH

Today Governor John R. Kasich signed the following bills into law:
HB 300 (Baker, Manning) modifies the law governing the termination or modification of a lifetime driver's license suspension or a class two suspension that exceeds fifteen years, specifies that a class one driver's license suspension for a specified aggravated vehicular homicide offense begins upon the offender's release from prison, and expands the purposes for which limited driving privileges may be granted during a driver's license suspension.
SB 225 (Bacon) designates the first day of June as "Hypoparathyroidism Awareness Day."
SB 232 (Bacon) amends the law related to transfer on death designation deeds and affidavits and makes changes in the probate and trust laws regarding the inheritance and beneficial rights of after born or pretermitted children or heirs.
SB 252 (Hite, Patton) enacts "Lindsay's Law" regarding sudden cardiac arrest in youth athletic activities.
SB 127 (Lehner, Hottinger) prohibits the performance of an abortion on a pregnant woman when the probable post-fertilization age of the unborn child is twenty weeks or greater.
Am. Sub. HB 493 (Sears, Ryan) makes changes in the child abuse and neglect reporting law, to generally prohibit an abortion of an unborn human individual with a detectable heartbeat, to create the Joint Legislative Committee on Adoption Promotion and Support, and to make an appropriation.
Veto Message
Kasich vetoed certain provisions of Am. Sub. HB 493. The text of his veto message can be found here and following this press release.
This quote is attributable to Gov. John R. Kasich:
"I agree with Ohio Right to Life and other leading, pro-life advocates that SB 127 is the best, most legally sound and sustainable approach to protecting the sanctity of human life."
As governor, John Kasich has continued his support for pro-life policies and has signed into law legislation banning late-term abortions, elective abortions in public, taxpayer hospitals, and funding for abortions through public employee health plans. During his term as governor, abortions in Ohio have dropped to the lowest level in almost 40 years.

Source: http://governor.ohio.gov/MediaRoom/PressReleases/TabId/200/ArticleId/576/language/en-US/kasich-signs-six-bills-12-13-16.aspx
