Public Statements
FOX "Hannity"- Transcript: Debate Recap
Interview
By: John Kasich
Date: Aug. 10, 2015
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
HANNITY: Those were some of the highlights from 2016 Republican presidential candidate, Governor John Kasich, at last week's GOP debate. Now the Ohio governor's popularity has been surging since he took that stage. Many are wondering will he ride this wave of momentum. He joins us now to talk about it. Governor, good to see you, sir.
KASICH: Sean, how are you?
HANNITY: You know, I look at your economic record. You were there, the architect of a balanced budget, the last time we had one when Newt was speaker and Bill Clinton was president. You fought hard in the battle. You took a deficit of billions of dollars, turned it into a surplus. You created a lot of jobs. And when I talked to people some people felt like they were being introduced to you for the first time at that debate. Does that surprise you?
KASICH: Well, Sean, being the star of "Heartland" on FOX, you would have thought I was known coast to coast. But actually I was not.
(LAUGHTER)
KASICH: But, you know, Sean, seriously, somebody took a hit at me because I said this, but I was just taking care of Ohio. I was not traveling around, coming to New Hampshire, going to anywhere in the country. I was just trying to fix the state.
And look, not only are we up to 350,000 jobs, but we have the largest tax cuts of any sitting governor, almost $5 billion, including basically eliminating income tax for small businesses, killing the death tax. And now we're working on killing death, Sean, but we haven't figure that out yet.
But things are going well in Ohio. And we have diversified Ohio's economy. And remember, back when I was budget chairman in Washington, we not only balanced the budget but we paid down the largest amount of the publically held debt in modern history, and we cut the taxes on risk taking which allowed our economy to take off. So you know that it's all about free markets, free enterprise, and economic growth.
HANNITY: And 57 million American women out of work, out of the labor force, 93 million, nearly 94 million out of the labor force, the worst numbers, 50 million in poverty. Can you apply those exact same principles and policies and make it work nationally? Now are you saying you can take an $18 trillion budget deficit or debt that we have and $128 trillion in unfunded liabilities and you can fix that?
KASICH: Well, Sean, just remember, you always talk about when I was budget committee chairman in Washington, and remember, when I left Washington after having completed that effort we made, and I spent 10 years of my life getting there, we had a $5 trillion surplus. And to your chagrin and mine, you know, it was blown. And a lot of Republicans participated in that.
But yes, we don't need to be balanced overnight. We need to have a credible plan that sends the word to the markets. And we've got to begin to deregulate so we're snuffing out -- we're not snuffing out the job creators in the country. And we have to get back to common sense and shift a lot of Washington back to where we live.
HANNITY: You mentioned the Trump phenomenon during that debate and you said you understood why he is doing so well. I'm a conservative.
KASICH: Sure.
HANNITY: I am angry at the Republican Party. Every election season they say, oh, yes, we're going to fight hard. We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare. But they wouldn't stand with Ted Cruz when he was fighting the power of the purse. They said we'll stop the executive order on immigration. They ended up funding the executive order on immigration. A lot of conservatives like me, you make a promise, we expect them to fill it. Have Republicans, are they losing the base of their party by not fighting hard, and is that why Trump is popular?
KASICH: Well, I think, first of all, Sean, my father was a mailman. I come from a blue collar Democrat town where I grew up, and people are always suspicious of big things, including big government. And they don't think things are working very well. You know, as I like to say, in the old days when I was in Congress, if you wanted to get your constituents tickets to the White House it would take a couple weeks. Now people just jump over the fence, right. People see the IRS, the people see the Veterans Administration, they're so frustrated by all this.
And Sean, one of the things that I learned when Newt was speaker and we controlled the House and the Senate is you can't really lead as effectively from the legislative branch. You need to have an executive that shows the way. And frankly --
HANNITY: You didn't have a Republican president when you put that balanced budget in place.
KASICH: No, no. And I was involved in welfare reform. I was involved in of course the balancing the budget. And we were able to do it. But when you're saying to me, why are we not doing better now? I think it's maybe a matter of leadership. And I'm saying that if we can get a president and keep the House and the Senate, we're going to have 90 to 120 days to really make a remarkable change in this country, to drive economic growth, to send power out of the town, to fix that tax code. We can do this. Sean, we can do it.
I was there when we did it once, and then we did it again in Ohio. I know how to do it. And, look, you can't go in there listening to special interests or having people talk you out of what you want to do. You have got to be firm, pleasant, smile, and just charge on.
HANNITY: All right, governor, I want the certainly to be fixed, I think like a lot of people watching, they're not happy where we're headed. So, governor, good to see you. We'll see you soon.
KASICH: Sean, I wouldn't be doing this if I didn't love my country, if I didn't think that we were, you know, the miracle of America needs to be really revived. Thanks, Sean, you're the best.
HANNITY: All right, governor, good to see.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/transcript/2015/08/10/carson-kasich-hope-to-build-on-gop-debate-momentum-on-hannity/
