Public Statements
FOX "Hannity"- Transcript: Debate Recap
Interview
By: John Kasich
Date: Aug. 7, 2015
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
And welcome back at Hannity. We're live from Cleveland. And joining us now, I guess he had a home court advantage tonight, the governor from the great state of Ohio, John Kasich.
How are you?
KASICH: Great.
HANNITY: I was just interviewing you two weeks ago. You've got to be excited you got in this debate.
KASICH: Well, you know, they said I wouldn't get in to begin with.
HANNITY: Right.
KASICH: And I did. Then they said well, he can't raise the money, and then I did.
HANNITY: Yes.
KASICH: Then they said he is announcing too late, which we did.
HANNITY: Right.
KASICH: And now they say how did he get in, and then they're saying he did really well tonight. So, it's all good.
HANNITY: Are you surprised by that?
KASICH: Well, I've always been underestimated, you know that. Just like you.
HANNITY: I've been underestimated my whole life.
KASICH: Always, always -- and that's a good thing. I hope they keep underestimating me. It will make life easier.
HANNITY: You had a great answer on immigration. We all agree we have to build the fence. That's why Donald Trump is popular. You dealt with it straight-up. I like that. What is the answer to the 11 million people, though?
KASICH: We have to find out who they are. Look, the most important thing, Sean, is once we fix the border, and build the fence, and put all the things in, the new technology, we have to make one clear word, which is if you come in again, you're going home. That's the end of it. You're going home.
Now, look, I was there when Reagan did the amnesty thing. I was there -- amnesty, I there in '86. I voted for the bill. Our mistake was, once we did it, we didn't fix the border. And secondly, we never said if you try it again, you're going home. No debate, no excuses, no nothing.
HANNITY: Well, maybe you can could it now.
KASICH: Well, I think we can.
HANNITY: Let me ask you this. It's funny. I read a poll. A lot of people didn't know you. You were on the Budget Committee.
KASICH: Yes.
HANNITY: You were part of that committee that actually balanced the budget.
KASICH: I was one of the chief architect.
HANNITY: Right.
KASICH: Of the balanced budget.
HANNITY: But then, people don't know that.
KASICH: They didn't know I was defense for 18 years. I was on the Defense Committee, you know, and...
HANNITY: So, do you look at that as an opportunity?
KASICH: Oh, yes. That's why I keep talking about my record. Because everybody talks what they want to do. I want to talk what I have done, and then you move from that time in Washington to being governor of Ohio, where we were a basket case, and now we've grown 350,000 jobs. We've got $2 billion of surplus. Our credit is strong and we're helping a lot of people.
HANNITY: What was your debt when you took over?
KASICH: $8 billion.
HANNITY: And you brought it -- now have a...
KASICH: A $2 billion surplus, with a balanced budget.
HANNITY: I told you. And jobs.
KASICH: 350,000. And $5 billion in tax cuts, including killing the death tax. And now we're working on killing death.
HANNITY: We're running out of time. You stood firm on accepting the Medicare.
KASICH: Well, I took the Medicaid...
HANNITY: Medicaid, sorry.
KASICH: ... because I brought the resources home, so we don't have to put the all drug addicted in jail for the rest of their life, or the mentally ill in jail. It saves us money, it's the morally right thing to do. If you don't have any health care, you end up in the emergency room and we all pay.
HANNITY: All right. Here's the question. Did you ever get to shoot in the same arena with Lebron?
KASICH: No. But I've been trying to take credit for bringing him back.
(LAUGHTER)
I don't think he likes that.
HANNITY: All right, Governor. Good to see you.
KASICH: Hey, guess what, I heard Aerosmith was here.
HANNITY: They were here. I saw them, I talked to them.
KASICH: Could you imagine that? Yes. Thanks.
HANNITY: All right. Good to see you. That's all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for joining us live from the spin room in Cleveland. We will be back in studio for a recap of tonight's debate, that's tomorrow night our usual time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/transcript/2015/08/07/gop-candidates-recap-their-debate-performances-on-hannity/
