Public Statements
CNN "The Situation Room" - Transcript: Trade Agreements and Presidential Campaign
Interview
By: John Kasich
Date: June 12, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
KEILAR: One of them joining me now. Let's talk to Ohio Governor John Kasich.
Governor, thanks so much for joining us from Utah. Really appreciate it.
GOV. JOHN KASICH (R), OHIO: OK, Brianna. Thank you.
KEILAR: You look -- I'm sure as you see, we all see Jeb Bush. He's not really catching fire right now. Do you look at that and say, I want to jump in this race more?
KASICH: Well, it's up to me to decide, Brianna, and my team is, do we have the resources and organization to be able to move forward? Because I don't want to get into this just for, you know -- it's not a lark. I've got to feel that I can win.
I don't really spend a lot of time, once I see where things are, trying to assess a horse race. I mean, the most important thing for me is to be able to get out and talk, be heard. Let people get to know who I am a little bit.
Look, I'm optimistic where we are. Resources are coming. The organization, I've got Senator John Sununu in New Hampshire.
[18:55:01] So, it feels pretty good. I haven't decided yet. But I'll be deciding sort in the near future.
KEILAR: As you decide, you must be asking yourself, what sets you apart from the other candidates. What makes you different?
KASICH: Well, listen. I was, of course, in Congress. I was a military reformer. I was involved in a lot of national security issues. I was also chairman of the budget committee and one of the chief architects of the last time we balanced the budget, which we haven't done since, which we haven't done since we walked on the moon.
Then, I went into the private sector for 10 years and then became governor, an executive of a big major state, a swing state, and been able to turn that around.
So, I think it's experience, and it's also a very successful record. So, I think those credentials, that resume is unique of everyone who is in or thinking about getting in.
KEILAR: This -- talk about this trade deal with us here. On life support as you heard our guests say, both of them, those for and against the trade deal. This is important for President Obama. Many Republicans would argue that it's important for the economic health of the country.
What do you think about --
KASICH: I think it's --
(CROSSTALK)
KEILAR: What this did to the country today? KASICH: Well, look, it's -- I was in Congress and things
declared on life support. I figure at the end, the president will figure a way to get this done. Maybe they will make tweaks there.
But overall, it's not just an economic issue. I think it's also a national security issue. America needs to be engaged in the world. I think it takes not only a strong military and effective diplomacy but also business involvement. We ought to be thinking about this in more robust and frankly more visionary ways about the way to connect to the world.
It does affect us economically. And that's critical for national security. But I think it's also important that business -- the business community is involved around the world. You know, I think they have provisions in this to make sure that we can retrain workers. There has been some language on currency manipulation.
The only thing I would say is that when we do see trade violations, clear violations, the United States has to protest and address them. I think too often in the past, we have ignored them.
But I'm basically an open and free trader. And I think that's where we ought to go.
You know, it's interesting, right? You have Republicans and the president working together. Who knows? You know, maybe we will make progress on some other things. I think at the end of the day they will get this done.
KEILAR: You do? So, you are voting in favor of it succeeding. You think that it will, on the record there.
KASICH: I don't have a vote.
KEILAR: No. No. You think it will. We will leave it there.
KASICH: I have to tell you, I have been involved in chasing down more votes to pass more critical things like budgets, and not only in Washington but my own state. Sometimes you got to scramble. Sometimes, that's what executives do. The only key is you got to do it early.
KEILAR: I want to ask you -- that's an interesting point. Democrats saying he has it. We will see if he does pull the rabbit out of the hat.
I want to ask you about an important case in Ohio. We're talking about Tamir Rice, the 12-year-old killed last year by a police officer. He was playing with a toy gun.
And you have now a very important move this week -- a judge agreeing with basically civic leaders who have said that the police need to be charged. The judge says there should be charges. It's really non-binding but it's symbolic. Do you support the judge's finding that these police officers should face charges? KASICH: Well, look, I'm not going to -- I'm not the judge. I
haven't studied the judge's decision. But I can tell you this. This case in Cleveland is very, very important. People in the community want to believe that there will be a sense of justice.
You know, it was not long ago when there was a judge that ruled in favor of the police. The people of Cleveland realize that they want to be heard. They want justice. They protested peacefully.
And what the community is asking for a sense they are being heard and their grievances are being addressed. We have to see how this plays out. There's prosecutors, there'll be other judges involved. But it's very serious.
I have been very engaged in the community. We created a task force in police and community and we have to listen. You know, Brianna, when we have a chunk of Americans who think that the justice system doesn't just work for them but work against them, we have to listen. We have to address their grievances. We'll see, this case is yet to be decided.
KEILAR: Real quick before I let you go, can there be justice without charges?
KASICH: Say that again.
KEILAR: Can there be justice without charges?
KASICH: Well, look, I'm not -- I am not the judge. You know, I'm going to work with the community.
KEILAR: Yes.
KASICH: However this decision goes to make sure we have calm and that we don't destroy the things that are beginning to be dramatically improved inside the city of Cleveland.
The community leaders have been terrific. They have been very responsible. They know they have a governor who listens to them and wants to help them.
KIELAR: All right. Governor, thanks so much for joining us. Really appreciate it.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1506/12/sitroom.02.html
