Public Statements
Kasich Commits to Replacing Buckeye Lake Dam
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: March 19, 2015
Location: Columbus, OH

Today Governor John R. Kasich, in a meeting with state and local officials and first responders, announced that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (ODNR) will immediately begin work to replace Buckeye Lake Dam. A recent report by the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) outlined serious structural deficiencies with the dam as well as options for reducing the risk to public safety posed by a catastrophic failure.
ODNR will immediately begin the necessary permitting and design work. The governor stressed that the safety of the people who live and work in the inundation zone will continue to be prioritized throughout this process.
"The Corps report clearly tells us that we have reached a point in time at which lives are in jeopardy, and our priority must be protecting those people in harm's way," said Kasich. "Buckeye Lake will remain a special place for many Ohioans, and our intention is to save the lake and preserve this unique community."
Said ODNR Director James Zehringer, "We understand how vital this lake is to the families and businesses in the area, so we will put in motion the processes necessary to build this dam. These are complex structures, and with lives and livelihoods at stake, putting off tough decisions only creates additional problems in the future."
Zehringer indicated that the agency was prepared to release a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) as soon as possible.
Buckeye Lake Chronology
March 11 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers report released detailing deficiencies identified at Buckeye Lake Dam. Click here to read the report.
March 16 Ohio EMA and ODNR host emergency preparedness meeting for local and state first responders, local officials and impacted groups.
March 17 Fairfield County Commissioners host public meeting for residents to share concerns about the dam, ODNR in attendance.

Source: http://governor.ohio.gov/Portals/0/pdf/03.19.15%20Kasich%20Commits%20to%20Replacing%20Buckeye%20Lake%20Dam.pdf
