Public Statements
Statewide Investments To Create $30 Million In New Payroll
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: July 25, 2016
Location: Columbus, OH

Today Governor John R. Kasich announced the approval of assistance for seven projects set to create 675 new jobs and retain 1,186 jobs statewide. During its monthly meeting, the Ohio Tax Credit Authority (TCA) reviewed economic development proposals brought to the board by JobsOhio and its regional partners. Collectively, the projects are expected to result in $30 million in new payroll, and spur more than $25 million in investment across Ohio.
Projects approved by the TCA include:
NORTHWEST
Church & Dwight Co., Inc., Village of Old Fort (Seneca Co.) and the City of Fostoria (Seneca Co.) expects to create 20 full-time positions, generating $1.2 million in new annual payroll and retaining $11.9 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the Village of Old Fort (Seneca Co.) and the City of Fostoria (Seneca Co.). Church & Dwight develops, manufactures and markets household products. The TCA approved a 1.054 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
Alex Products, Inc., Ridgeville Corners Twp. (Henry Co.), City of Bryan (Williams Co.) and Village of Paulding (Paulding Co.) expects to create 100 full-time positions, generating $2.9 million in new annual payroll and retaining $26.4 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in Ridgeville Corners Twp. (Henry Co.), the City of Bryan (Williams Co.) and the Village of Paulding (Paulding Co.). Alex Products manufactures automotive seat frames, tooling and automation equipment. The TCA approved a 0.853 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
SOUTHWEST
Mountjoy Chilton Medley LLP, City of Cincinnati (Hamilton Co.) expects to create 64 full-time positions, generating $4.8 million in new annual payroll and retaining $1.2 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Cincinnati (Hamilton Co.). Mountjoy Chilton Medley is a firm that specializes in tax assurance, accounting and consulting services. The TCA approved a 1.493 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
WEST
STP Products Manufacturing Company, City of Dayton (Montgomery Co.) and City of Painesville (Lake Co.) expect to create 242 full-time positions, generating $7.5 million in new annual payroll and retaining $3.2 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's consolidation project in the City of Dayton (Montgomery Co.) and the City of Painesville (Lake Co.). STP Products is a global consumer products company specializing in automotive performance and appearance products. The TCA approved a 1.217 percent, seven-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.

United Grinding North America, Inc., City of Miamisburg (Montgomery Co.) expects to create 41 full-time positions, generating $3.9 million in new annual payroll and retaining $9.8 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's consolidation project in the City of Miamisburg (Montgomery Co.). United Grinding manufactures grinding equipment and provides customized programming and tooling expertise for a variety of industries. The TCA approved a 1.763 percent, eight-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
CENTRAL
Virtusa Corporation, City of Dublin (Franklin Co.) expects to create 50 full-time positions, generating $4.5 million in new annual payroll as a result of the company's new location project in the City of Dublin (Franklin Co.). Virtusa is a global information technology services company. The TCA approved a 1.765 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
LOCATION TO BE DETERMINED
Huckberry, Inc. (Location TBD) expects to create 158 full-time positions, generating $5.2 million in new annual payroll as a result of the company's new location at a to-be-determined project location in Ohio. Huckberry is a members-only guide to travel apparel and gear for the active life. The TCA approved a 1.235 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.

Source: http://governor.ohio.gov/MediaRoom/PressReleases/TabId/200/ArticleId/480/language/en-US/statewide-investments-to-create-30-million-in-new-payroll.aspx
