Public Statements
Kasich Looks to Republican Primaries, "Ohio Story' in Hand
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: March 19, 2015
Location: Columbus, OH

By Sheryl Gay Stolberg
Gov. John R. Kasich was sipping coffee in the sun-drenched garden room of his official residence, boasting about his "Ohio story" of economic recovery, when he was told that some Republicans thought a fellow Midwestern governor, Scott Walker of Wisconsin, was more conservative. He bolted upright.
"I think I have the right to define what conservatism is," Mr. Kasich roared, launching into a breathless oration about tax cuts, the mentally ill, prison reform, faith in American culture, unwed motherhood, welfare and why he hates being called a "compassionate conservative." He wrapped up 11 minutes later, declaring: "This is a big deal! This is about human life!"
The lecture was typical of Mr. Kasich -- voluble, impassioned, a little bit scattered -- and his irritation at being compared with Mr. Walker was revealing. As the 2016 presidential field takes shape, Mr. Walker is gaining traction. But Mr. Kasich, too, is flirting with a bid.
Next week, Mr. Kasich (pronounced KAY-sick) will ratchet up his presidential guessing game with visits to the first primary state, New Hampshire, on Tuesday and to Manhattan on Wednesday to mingle at a dinner with Republican donors. In April, he will address the Detroit Economic Club, which recently hosted Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida.
If he does jump in, both skeptics and admirers say, Mr. Kasich must find a way to distinguish himself from an already crowded pack. But he will almost certainly enliven the debate and gain a measure of instant credibility because of Ohio's status as a key swing state.
"John Kasich is in some ways the most intuitively innovative person in the Republican Party since Jack Kemp," said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, who served with Mr. Kasich in the congressional leadership in the 1990s, referring to the party's 1996 vice-presidential nominee. "He is very conservative, but he is very unorthodox. So if he does run, it will be interesting to watch him."

Source:
