Public Statements
The Columbus Dispatch - Kasich Plans Tax Cuts, More Aid to Poor in Upcoming Budget
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: Jan. 30, 2015
Location: Unknown

By Randy Ludlow
Ohioans will see a half-billion-dollar tax cut proposed when Gov. John Kasich unveils his two-year state budget proposal on Monday.
The Republican governor rolled out the first piece of his plan yesterday: eliminating state income taxes for 1 million small businesses, spurring them to reinvest and possibly create jobs, while also reducing income taxes for 3 million low-income and middle-class families.
And he wants the working poor to hang onto some state-subsidized child-care benefits longer instead of having them completely cut off as families make more money.
Follow @OhioPoliticsNow on Twitter
While most of Kasich's plan remains under wraps, it is expected to be touted as "tax reform" that raises some taxes while lowering the income tax in order to get to the net $500 million decrease. The income tax already has been chopped by about $3 billion since Kasich has been in office.
Kasich's sneak peek was embraced yesterday by those working to assist the poor.
Two standing ovations, and applause along the way, greeted the governor as he burnished his compassionate credo in remarks before the Ohio Association of Community Action Agencies' winter conference.
"He means what he says," said Phil Cole, executive director of the group. "He's putting people first. The focus is on people, and I like that shift."
The tax cuts for businesses and families would total nearly $1.1 billion over two years. Kasich did not say yesterday which taxes would be increased to offset those savings.But Scott Milburn, the governor's communication director, said Kasich would seek an increase in the cigarette tax. Advocates have suggested a jump of $1 per pack. Higher oil-and-gas drilling taxes and other increases also are likely to emerge.
The administration also is touting savings through efficiency, such as a 10 percent reduction in the state payroll in the past four years, as well as extra revenue from a growing state economy.
Small businesses with less than $2 million in annual gross receipts would pay no income taxes, and an increase in personal income-tax exemptions would leave many of the working poor tax-free, Kasich said.
Most of the governor's remarks, built atop his expansion of Medicaid to cover more than 450,000 additional low-income Ohioans, centered on public assistance and jobs for the needy.
The welfare system will become "person-centered," he said, in a bid to stop dependency and joblessness from taking root in the young. People no longer will be "widgets."
He would spend $14 million over two years to pay for an income-based expansion of child-care subsidies to reward cash-assistance recipients working to overcome poverty.
Kasich wants to move more people off public assistance and into jobs, with an initial focus on those ages 16 to 24 to "break the poverty cycle before it starts." He would use $310 million a year in federal and state funds to help low-income people become self-sustaining.
Improved case management and an employment initiative by 2016 would focus on supporting at-risk youth, single parents, ex-felons and the homeless to help them begin work. Once the new setup for younger Ohioans has been in place for a year or so, it would be expanded to the state's entire welfare population.
Lisa Hamler-Fugitt, executive director of the Ohio Association of Foodbanks, said, "I think these are some of the boldest initiatives I have heard as it relates to transforming the current system." She was excited by the focus on youth: "By the time some of these kids get to 18, it's too late."
Kasich took a hard line with county jobs-and-family-service agencies, saying they will have to meet higher expectations in achieving results for recipients or face having their funding transferred to a nonprofit agency, another county or the state.
"Those delivering it are interested in maintaining power or control, which leads to a government operation that cheats the taxpayer, and even more important, cheats the person who needs the help. This can't stand," he said.
Douglas Lumpkin, director of the state Office of Human Services Innovation, said counties "agree with the concept" of transforming assistance delivery. "This will assure better outcomes for the individual and the family," he said.
Saying social services and government assistance for the needy are under attack, Kasich said he is making a stand for those willing to work to better themselves. He hopes lawmakers, many of them GOP conservatives, will agree.
"I'm beginning to see the rhetoric among my colleagues at the Statehouse changing a bit -- a little more concern, a little more softness, a little fewer hard edges," the governor said.

Source: http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/local/2015/01/29/gov-john-kasich-talks-budget.html
