Public Statements
Issue Position: Respecting the Sanctity of Human Life
Issue Position
By: John Kasich
Date: Jan. 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

Throughout his career, John Kasich has been a strong, consistent and committed believer in the sanctity of human life. During his 18 years in Congress, John Kasich consistently opposed federal funding of abortion and voted to ban partial-birth abortions. As Governor of Ohio, he has enacted more measures to protect unborn children than any other governor in the history of the state, including bans on late-term abortions and bans on elective abortions in public hospitals. As a result, on Gov. Kasich's watch abortions have hit a record low.
Fighting Taxpayer Funding for Planned Parenthood: When John Kasich became governor, the Ohio Department of Health stopped awarding new state dollars to Planned Parenthood. Also, Kasich signed legislation kicking it to the back of the line for the federal government's family planning grants the Health Department administers.
Encouraging Adoption: By making adoption easier, less bureaucratic, and more affordable, John Kasich has helped create a more accessible alternative to abortion. As governor, he streamlined the adoption process and removed barriers for potential adoptive parents. John Kasich is committed to helping older children in foster care find forever families as well and launched a new effort specifically aimed to help these older, harder-to-place children find loving homes.
Protecting Women's Health: As Governor of Ohio, John Kasich provided for the first-ever state funding stream for rape crisis centers so they can receive needed support and providers can receive training and technical assistance. Additionally, he helped create a $500,000-per-year Parenting and Pregnancy support program that provides counseling to pregnant women, meets practical needs of new mothers such as cribs and formula, and connects new mothers to additional help.
Standing Up for Life in the Face of Opposition: Because of his consistent adherence to his pro-life beliefs, John Kasich is a frequent target of abortionist groups such as Planned Parenthood and NARAL.

Source:
