Public Statements
Issue Position: National Security
Issue Position
By: John Kasich
Date: Jan. 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

John Kasich served on the U.S. House Armed Services Committee for 18 years and has more national security policy experience than any other candidate. He understands the military, knows the Pentagon and can hit the ground running as Commander-in-Chief on Day One.
Helping President Ronald Reagan Strengthen the Armed Forces: During his tenure on the Armed Services Committee, John Kasich was a strong supporter of President Ronald Reagan's national security agenda. In fact, President Reagan recognized Kasich's help enacting his 1986 Pentagon realignment, which expedited operational decision-making by streamlining the command structure and giving the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff increased authority to direct operations across all branches of the military. The reforms were credited with helping American forces so quickly achieve victory over Saddam Hussein in the first Gulf War.
Targeting Waste to Improve Efficiency: As a member of the Armed Services Committee John Kasich became known as a "Cheap Hawk" and helped lead examinations of inflated costs and wasteful practices involving common tools and spare parts that led the Pentagon to begin reforming its procurement processes, reduce costs and ban fraudulent contractors. He also worked to combat safety and quality problems in essential military equipment.
Supporting Our Troops Beyond the Battlefield: As Governor of Ohio, John Kasich has been a strong advocate for veterans so that they can more easily reintegrate to the workforce and share in Ohio's growing prosperity. He has enacted new laws to give them credit for military training and experience when applying for state-issued licenses and credentials and as well as college credit for military training.
Strengthening Our Military to Keep America Safe: John Kasich supports strengthening our military to repair years of inadequate funding so our Armed Forces can keep Americans safe and advance our national interests around the globe. He supports lifting the budget caps that have been so harmful to defense spending as well as cutting waste and streamlining the Pentagon bureaucracy so that every new dollar is spent as efficiently as possible and our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines get the resources they need to do their jobs and get home safely.

Source: https://johnkasich.com/NationalSecurity/
