Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: John Kasich
Date: Jan. 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS LIKE NO OTHER
For American students to be prepared for success in an increasingly competitive global economy, they must receive strong education support from parents and educators, including high expectations--especially in math and English. John Kasich has put this priority to work in Ohio. He has also reinforced that education is a local responsibility, not one to be micromanaged by federal bureaucrats. Additionally, he has expanded school choice, worked to prevent students from dropping-out and is helping make college more affordable.
Education is Local: Education is a state and local issue and should not be micro-managed by the federal government. The teaching curricula, choice of textbooks, and lesson plans that local educators use are the responsibility of local school districts--not federal bureaucrats. New laws enacted in Ohio by Gov. Kasich effectively defend against the threat of federal intrusion and privacy abuses that have raised concerns nationwide. As President he would put these same approaches to work for every student.
No Federal Learning Standards: Governor Kasich believes in setting high expectations for our students, and as President he would call on states to develop, adopt and maintain their own rigorous standards, not impose federally mandated learning standards on local schools.
Protecting Privacy: Ohio has taken strong steps to protect student privacy and their personal education information and as President he would make sure all students have these protections.
Listening to Parents: To make sure Ohio is setting the right expectations, new review committees which include parents and local educators are examining Ohio's standards for English/Language Arts, Mathematics, Science, and Social Studies. As President, John Kasich would encourage all education leaders to seek input from parents and communities to make sure their work aligns with the expectations and priorities of those they serve.
Third Grade Reading Guarantee: To help ensure that Ohio's younger students have the reading skills they need to succeed later in school -- and in life -- Ohio strengthened a Third Grade Reading Guarantee to ensure proper identification of at-risk students, as well as better reading intervention and monitoring plans. Social promotion of third graders who can't read has come to an end and new intervention and support efforts in grades K-3 are identifying and assisting students who need additional help in order to progress.
Helping Kids Stay in School: In order to help all students stay in school and obtain their diplomas, Ohio schools now use an early warning system to identify students at risk of dropping out in the middle grades. Once identified, these students, their parents and their advisors utilize new alternative pathways to graduation by creating student success plans to help them overcome challenges to graduation and stay in school.
Expanding School Choices: Ohio has quadrupled the number of available vouchers and increased the number of schools whose students are eligible for vouchers.
Keeping College Affordable: An improved system to help high schools encourage more students to earn college credit while completing their high school courses is giving students a jump on their college careers and helping reduce college costs for them and their families. Ohio has also been a national leader in holding the line on tuition increases, and college tuition and fees will be frozen for the next two years while a new state task force is helping schools identify ways to control their costs. By paying colleges and universities based on helping students complete courses and graduation, not based on enrollment, Ohio's new 100 percent performance-based funding formula for undergraduate students is incentivizing our higher education system to graduate more students, keep college costs low and strengthen Ohio's workforce.

Source: https://johnkasich.com/education/
