Public Statements
Kasich Statement on Legislative Leaders of 131st General Assembly
Statement
By: John Kasich
Date: Nov. 12, 2014
Location: Columbus, OH

Today Governor John R. Kasich issued the following statement on the legislative leaders that will guide the 131st General Assembly:
"The General Assembly has been a force for needed change as Ohio has come together over the past four years to shepherd our state's recovery, and that partnership will be in good hands with Sen. Keith Faber as president of the Senate and Rep. Cliff Rosenberger as speaker of the House. I congratulate them both on the honor their colleagues have bestowed upon them. Ohio's doing much better today but there's still more work to do and these two strong leaders will help keep Ohio moving forward as we continue creating the jobs-friendly climate that will help our state be the best place to live and work in America.
"Nobody understands the need to keep our foot on the accelerator more than Cliff Rosenberger, whose constituents are succeeding in coming back from the economic despair of just a few years ago. There's more work to do and with Cliff as speaker we will all continue to build on the progress we're making.
"I look forward to continuing my partnership with Sen. Faber leading the Senate and count him as both a colleague and a friend. He has been a steady hand in helping Ohio continue to get back on its feet and I value his principled approach to leadership.
"Perhaps Ohio's greatest threats are complacency and division. Our only option is to keep coming together so we can continue pushing upward. I look forward to working with this new team to ensure that we take Ohio to the next level and that we do it in the way that Ohioans expect us to, inclusively, in order to fully cement the gains we've made and use them as a foundation for taking Ohio even higher."

Source: http://www.governor.ohio.gov/Portals/0/11.12.14%20Kasich%20Statement%20on%20Legislative%20Leaders%20for%20131st%20General%20Assembly.pdf
