Public Statements
Lima News - Gov. Kasich Wants 4 More Years
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: Oct. 14, 2014
Location: Coldwater, OH

By Lance Mihm
"You can sit at home, or you can try to bring about change."
That was the one of the several messages Ohio Gov. John Kasich relayed to potential voters Monday as he visited Coldwater Machine Co. on Monday. The speech was part of several stops during a get out and vote rally.
"There has been a lot of growth in Ohio the last four years," Kasich said. "There is still plenty more to do. What we are finding is that when you take back your country and impart the values we have, it works itself out."
Kasich told the crowd that he used a simple approach in how his administration spends taxpayer dollars.
"With government spending, I ask "Would I do it with my own money,'" Kasich said. "I keep in mind how much it will cost."
Kasich said his administration had created in access of a quarter million jobs and wanted to do more in the next four years. He said the key is making sure people from all demographics have hope.
"Everybody needs to be hopeful," Kasich said. "We are trying to reform education. We are trying to reform welfare so it turns into real job opportunities."
Kasich said towns such as Coldwater were what made things hopeful because of core values.
"You believe in personal responsibility," Kasich said. "You believe in resilience. You believe in work is dignity. You believe in respect and you understand the value of helping other people that can't help themselves. When you think about that and look around the country, we aren't doing so well."
Kasich said he believed that power needed to be concentrated more to the people, and he said that money is power.
"We have cut taxes," Kasich said. "I believe that money is power. If the government has the money, they have the power. If you have the money, you have the power. "I want more money in your pocket."
Kasich said it was important for people to be excited about the election.
He said everyone should call their family and friends to get them out to vote.
"This isn't just some stuff," Kasich said. "We are trying to bring about change, and it is working. We need you to be excited. There is still more to do."
Coldwater Machine President Tim McCaughey said that under Kasich's leadership, the factory has been able to increase its staff by 25 percent.
"He has emphasized the importance of industry in Ohio," McCaughey said. "We support his administration's support of business in Ohio.
State Rep. Jim Buchy, Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor, and state Sen. Keith Faber also spoke and gave a vote of confidence concerning Kasich.
"He laid the foundation," Buchy said. "This is the kind of leadership we need."
Taylor said that Ohio was in a ditch four years ago and that Ohio could have gone in a different direction, but was now on the right path with Kasich.
Faber said Kasich was the right choice.
"Despite all of the dysfunction in D.C., Ohio is getting better," he said.

Source: http://limaohio.com/news/home_top-news/50486271/Kasich:-4-more-years
