Public Statements
Daily Advocate - Governor Campaigns in Darke County
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: Oct. 13, 2014
Location: Greenville, OH

By Stacie Ward
On Monday, Ohio Governor John Kasich and Lieutenant Governor Mary Taylor made a quick campaign stop at the Darke County Republican Headquarters in Greenville.
According to Taylor, Ohio has made great progress under the direction of Kasich over the last four years and they hope to continue that momentum with another Republican win in just three short weeks.
"When Governor Kasich came in to office four years ago we knew we faced serious challenges," said Taylor. "Ohio was in a ditch. Many Ohioans didn't have hope for the future because of the direction our state was headed. But Governor Kasich and I saw that as we campaigned the state and that was why we asked for your vote."
Taylor stated that Kasich has been very clear since day one of his campaign four years ago. His main focus is jobs in Ohio.
"A quarter of a million jobs have been created in the private sector since we took office four years ago because this governor has been steadfast and clear about what it takes to get Ohio back on track," stated Taylor. "Our goal is to give every Ohioan an opportunity to have a good job, and we've made progress."
In addition to jobs success, Kasich and Taylor have also balanced the budget and closed the $8 billion dollar budget gap without raising taxes. In fact, according to Taylor, they have cut taxes by $3 billion dollars since taking office.
Also attributed to the leadership of Kasich is a 75 percent tax cut on tax returns for small business owners and 200 billion dollars back from workers compensation to small business owners in the state of Ohio.
Appealing more on a personal level, Kasich focused on community involvement and old fashioned values as he encouraged senior citizens to get involved in the lives of children.
"We want you to get engaged and we want you to have a voice to talk about the things that really do matter like respect," stated Kasich. "Respect with your elders and respect with teachers."
According to Kasich he is considering a program that encourages senior citizens to get involved. For 100 volunteer hours they will receive three free credits to attend college. They would have the option of gifting those credits to a grandson, granddaughter or even a child that lives down the street.
Encouraging the younger generation was also a hot topic with Kasich.
"I'm a believer that we have to always encourage our kids," he said. "In my lifetime, when adults would praise me and encourage me, it made a difference in the way things worked. Moms and dads, encourage your kids and guide them."
He also hammered home focus; focus on the campaign and focus and commitment to the value system.
"I want "eye of the tiger.' I want focus on our part," emphasized Kasich. "Do you believe what we are doing is right? We are really committed to this value system. The "eye of the tiger' to me is more important than just another "us against them' campaign."
Also in attendance were State Representatives Jim Buchy and Richard Adams, Senators Keith Faber and Bill Beagle, and candidate for State Representative, Steve Huffman.
"John Kasich's integrity is impeccable, and what I really respect about him is he's a man of faith," stated Rep. Buchy. "He doesn't talk about it. He lives it. He lives his faith."
"He came in with a plan to get Ohio running upward and it's working," added Buchy. "That's what's so special about leaders at the top leading with faith, family and integrity. Those of us below want to emulate that. That's why in Ohio we're going in the right direction not only in an operational standpoint, but from a people standpoint. It's because of the leadership trail that John Kasich has blazed."

Source: http://www.dailyadvocate.com/news/home_top-news/150145788/Governor-campaigns-in-Darke-County
