Public Statements
Medina Post - Governor Makes Campaign Pit Stop in Medina
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: Oct. 11, 2014
Location: Medina, OH

By Allison Wood
Gov. John Kasich's stop in town Oct. 11 was a little less formal than the one he made in February as part of his State of the State address.
But the Republican crowd at the local GOP headquarters provided plenty of enthusiasm as they took a break from door-to-door campaigning or dropping off campaign literature.
Kasich, with the help of House Speaker Bill Batchelder and Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor, addressed supporters and greeted local candidates.
Nearly all on the ballot showed up, including County Commissioner Steve Hambley, who is running to replace Batchelder, and county auditor candidate Keith Dirham. U.S. Rep. Jim Renacci also stopped by, where Taylor joked about how best to pronounce his last name.
However, stealing that show during the stop were the three young daughters of State Sen. Larry Obhof, the eldest, Bree, 7, who held Kasich's hand while the middle daughter, Lily, 5, growled at him with a stuffed animal. The youngest, Belle, 2, played with a phone and laid down behind Batchelder.
Despite the large lead Kasich is projected to have in the pre-election polls, the message was to keep working hard up until Nov. 4 so this projection becomes reality.
Taylor -- who added that her family had lived in Wadsworth and Seville -- reminded the crowd there were 23 days to election day and that their task was to make sure everyone they know turned out to vote.
"You've got to play until the last second on the clock ticks away," Taylor said, referencing the Browns. "We've got to show the rest of the country that common sense policies, pro-growth and pro-job policies work."
Kasich first thanked Batchelder for his years of service and recalls how they have spent the last four years "fixing Ohio," especially when it came to eliminating an $8 billion state budget deficit.
"It was losing his shine," he said, which he added has changed as unemployment drops.
This experience was different that his time in Congress, where the federal government ran deficits in the trillions of dollars soon after leaving office in 2000.
Kasich reminded the crowd the reason they were working so hard was to make sure the next generation "had a great life, a great country."
"You just look at problems and you fix them," Kasich said, stating changing the culture is important as well. "You don't go and play games or play politics and worry about who is going to vote for you ... that's exactly what we've done."
His goal for his next term is to bring down the barriers and raise the incentives to everyone involved in businesses, schools and communities.
Failure to bring them down will lead to greed, despair, drugs and indifference, he said.
"The whole country is watching Ohio, they always do," Kasich said. "And it's not just because of Lebron James."
Before going to his next stop in Lorain, Kasich quickly stopped at Castle Noel in Medina to see Cousin Eddie's RV on display which recently experienced vandalism.

Source: http://www.thepostnewspapers.com/medina/local_news/article_18555f4d-e42c-5b10-922a-e3f036223c55.html
