Public Statements
Newark Advocate - Governor Seeks Commitment to Values, Teaching and Jobs
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: Sept. 10, 2014
Location: Newark, OH

By Joe Williams
Gov. John Kasich called for a joint commitment from people of business, faith and education to mentor Ohio's children during an hourlong visit Tuesday to downtown Newark.
Kasich met with about 150 of the local Republican Party faithful during a stop inside what later this month will open as River Road Coffeehouse and Palumbo's Italian Market at 26 N. Park Place. He urged his audience to vote for him in the upcoming election and pass the word about his record in office.
The governor said he began his first term in 2011 with the state having lost 350,000 jobs; he said it has added almost a quarter of a million jobs since then. On the budget front, Ohio faced an $8 billion deficit then, but now has almost a $1.5 billion surplus, he said.
"That almost rolls off your tongue," he said, "but when you think about it, it's remarkable. If Washington did half of that, we would be in really good shape."
While stressing the need to control the costs of higher education, Kasich said the state is putting money into public schools while holding them accountable. He said he is bringing back vocational education, "not (former Gov.) Jim Rhodes' vocational education, but 21st-century, newfangled vocational education," to help teach skills for jobs or that lead to more education.
"We need to make sure every person is trained for a job that exists," he said. "I love poets and philosophers, but there aren't that many jobs for poets and philosophers, and so we need to make sure we're starting, even in the first grade, we begin to get kids to think about what they might want to do, what their thoughts and passions are, get them trained so they can get a job."
Kasich said that as the economy strengthens and continues to grow, Ohioans need to take care of people who are addicted to drugs, mentally ill or developmentally disabled.
The governor said he has noticed an erosion of culture, drug use, violence in schools and a lack of personal respect for elders and teachers that can be changed.
"In my opinion, it doesn't have to be that way," he said, "but it's going to have to take all of us.
"People gave up their lives to fight for this country. You know you think about the history of the military, what these people fought for. The least we can do is to pitch in for you veterans that were here one more time. You don't have to go to war, but you have to be in the community, and if we do it, we're going to be great."
"I hope he's going to run for president," said Larry Snider, of Newark Township, who attended Tuesday's rally. "That's my out-of-the-box statement, but I would think it's possible. We need a good Republican in there."
While Snider considers himself as somewhat independent yet leaning Republican, his wife, Peggy, said she voted for a Democrat only once in her life "and I have regretted it ever since."
Domestic Relations Judge Richard Wright said he met Kasich in 1984 in German Village while the judge was a law student and the governor was a congressman.
"He's still the same guy," Wright said. "He still has the vision. He's got the energy. I think he's moving the right way."
Mayor Jeff Hall hosted Tuesday's gathering, welcoming the governor and the new businesses while citing a commitment to redeveloping the downtown area from business people, community leaders and developers who seek to "blend the ambiance of old buildings and build some flair into it."

Source: http://www.newarkadvocate.com/story/news/local/2014/09/09/governor-seeks-commitment-values-teaching-jobs/15368793/
