Public Statements
Breaking: Gov. John Kasich Named a "Friend of Agriculture"
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: Aug. 27, 2014
Location: Unknown

The Ohio Farm Bureau Federation's Agriculture for Good Government Political Action Committee (AGGPAC) has named Governor John R. Kasich a "Friend of Agriculture." This historic move marks the first time ever that the AGGPAC has granted such a distinction to a statewide candidate.
"Throughout his first three and a half years in office, Governor Kasich has clearly demonstrated his appreciation of the importance of agriculture to Ohio's economy and quality of life," said John C. (Jack) Fisher, Ohio Farm Bureau's executive vice president and treasurer of AGGPAC. "He has steadfastly supported policies that are good for Ohio's largest industry."
The AGGPAC routinely monitors the voting records and political campaigns of Ohio's elected officials at the state and national levels. Funding for AGGPAC comes from voluntary contributions by Farm Bureau members and is governed by a committee of bi-partisan Farm Bureau leaders.
"Working with the agriculture community has been a priority of our administration and I am honored to be the first statewide candidate to be named a "Friend of Agriculture' by Ohio Farm Bureau," said Kasich. "Agriculture isn't just Ohio's largest industry, it's in our state's DNA and our farmers hold those precious values that are the foundation of strong communities, like hard work and giving our neighbors a hand when they need help. I'm proud of what we've been able to accomplish together and look forward to helping this great industry grow for another four years."
In deciding to designate Governor Kasich a "Friend of Agriculture", the farmer-leaders of the committee cited several specific actions by Kasich that are extremely helpful to Ohio's farm community. That list includes Governor Kasich's efforts to eliminate Ohio's "death tax" and provide income tax and small business tax relief that will help farms and agribusinesses grow, and Governor Kasich's efforts to attract large food processing investments that support Ohio's food economy.
You can read Ohio Farm Bureau's announcement here: http://ofbf.org/news-and-events/news/4274/

Source: https://www.kasichforohio.com/breaking-gov-john-kasich-named-friend-agriculture-read/
