Public Statements
Coshocton County Beacon - Gov. Kasich Visits Coshocton County
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: Aug. 15, 2014
Location: West Lafayette, OH

By Josie Sellers
Bob Guilliams was honored to have Gov. John Kasich speak at his family's winery.
"He was here about four years ago," Guilliams said. "We were hoping he'd come back and the Republican Party made that happen. Gov. Kasich has been a lot of places, but to come here where there is only about 37,000 people in the county I think sends a message that he values our part of rural Ohio."
The Coshocton County Republican Party invited Gov. Kasich to a meet and greet, it hosted Aug. 14, at Raven's Glenn Winery.
"This is at least the fifth time the Governor has been here," said Steve Hall, who is the chairman of the Coshocton County Republican Party. "I've heard him speak before and he is a man of his word. It's nice to have someone in government who says one thing and does the same thing. That is hard to find anymore."
Before speaking to the group, Gov. Kasich gave State Representatives Jay Hottinger and Bill Hayes the opportunity to speak. Both officials praised him for what he has done for Ohio.
"His (Kasich's) number one, two and three goals were to get Ohioans back to work and in the last four years this state has made a tremendous turnaround," Hottinger said.
Kasich also asked for any updates on the tragedy that occurred Aug. 13, at the Coshocton Grain Co.
"Thank God there was no loss of life," he said.
Larry Endsley, who is part owner of the business, reported that all but one of the people who were hurt were out of the hospital.
When Kasich finally did address the crowd he shared some of his new goals for Ohio.
"The big thing is to get people trained for the jobs that do exist," he said.
Kasich also wants to make changes to the welfare system.
"We need to train people, encourage them and make them take personal responsibility," he said.
Kasich also wants to fight problems with addiction and drug abuse. He wants to get into schools and educate students about the dangers of drugs and rehabilitate those who have battled the problem.
"What a nightmare, but we are not going to ignore it," Kasich said. "The key to all this is jobs. If we can keep the economy stable we have the ability to do the things that we don't' if our economy is weak. We will have our dips, but there is no question the best is yet to come."

Source: http://www.coshoctonbeacontoday.com/gov-kasich-visits-coshocton-county/
