Public Statements
Columbus Dispatch - Ohio Employers May Receive $1 Billion Workers' Comp Rebate
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: Aug. 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Mark Williams
Many Ohio employers are in line to collectively get another $1 billion break on their workers' compensation premiums.
Gov. John Kasich proposed a $1 billion rebate yesterday that the board of the Ohio Bureau of Workers' Compensation is to consider at a meeting later this month. If it is approved, checks could go out as soon as October to 184,000 private employers and 3,800 public employers.
The bureau doesn't insure all public and private employers. Many large employers have their own workers' compensation programs.
Companies and government employers that pay workers' compensation premiums to the state and have up-to-date policies are eligible for a rebate of 60 percent of what they were billed for their most recent policy year.
"To employers across Ohio, you've got a big chunk of money coming back to you," Kasich said.
The rebate, along with a similar $1 billion rebate made last year, is being driven by strong returns in the bureau's investment portfolio.
The bureau's investment fund has had an average gain of 8.9 percent per year over the past three years, including 13.3 percent in the most recent fiscal year.
With the bureau's assets at $7.7 billion, Kasich said the rebate could have been bigger, but he preferred that the bureau hang on to that additional money in case of turbulence in the stock market.
"This rebate of about $1 billion is fantastic. ... Employers get money back," Kasich said. That money can be used to invest in the business, add a worker or bolster savings, he said.
"We believe at this time that this is the prudent thing to do because of the position we're in," said Steve Buehrer, the bureau's CEO.
The reductions bring average rates for public employers down to the lowest level in at least 30 years, Buehrer said.
Kasich made the announcement at Portfolio Creative, an employment agency focused on advertising, design and marketing personnel.
"It was a little bit of a surprise," Catherine Lang-Cline, the company's president and co-founder, said of the new rebate. "We're probably going to invest it" in the business.
She said she doesn't how much the company will get; the most recent rebate was $8,300, she said.
During the event, Lang-Cline praised the bureau and said her workers' compensation rates have been going down.
"Because of these efforts, we can do more," she said of her company.
Employers that owe the bureau money will have their rebate applied to that balance first.
Besides the rebate, the bureau announced $35 million in new safety initiatives meant to reduce worker injuries.
The initiatives include expansion of the Safety Council Program to incorporate health and wellness programs, an improved firefighter safety-training program and expansion of a program that gives matching grants to employers that buy equipment that will substantially reduce or eliminate injuries and illnesses.
"We want to encourage more and more employers to put safety-education resources to work to keep their workers safe and reduce their workers' comp costs," Buehrer said.

Source: http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/business/2014/08/13/employers-to-receive-1-billion-workers-comp-rebate.html
