Public Statements
Plain Dealer - Gov. John Kasich Announces $1 Billion in Rebates to Businesses from Workers' Compensation Surpluses
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: Aug. 13, 2014
Location: Columbus, OH

By Robert Higgs
Gov. John Kasich announced Wednesday that the state will return $1 billion to Ohio businesses as a rebate on their worker compensation premiums.
At the same time, workers' compensation will commit millions more toward health and safety training to reduce costs to the program in the long run by reducing workplace incidents.
Returns on the Bureau of Workers' Compensation's investments last fiscal year ran more than 13 percent, generating extra revenue that allows for the one-time rebate, said Steve Buehrer, the administrator of the state workers' compensation bureau.
The workers' compensation board of directors will take up the recommendation at an August meeting. The rebate could receive final approval in September. Checks could be in the mail to businesses by October.
Kasich made the announcement Wednesday at a small business in Columbus, Portfolio Creative, that recruits and staffs talent for marketing, design, communications and advertising. The business was chosen as an example of one likely to receive a rebate.
The state expects 184,000 private companies and another 3,800 public employers will get rebates.
This is the second time in two years the state has rebated money to businesses.
Last year the state also returned $1 billion when workers' compensation assets topped $8 billion. The average rebate last year was about $4,000, Buehrer said. Figures for this year are not yet available.
Kasich said he hopes the money will serve as a form of economic stimulus, allowing companies to buy equipment or add a worker.
"I'm out across the state talking with employers. And when they get this money back, they can't believe they're getting this money back," Kasich said at Wednesday's announcement.
The state could actually have recommended a larger rebate, but wanted to be cautious about keeping enough in the workers' compensation reserves, Kasich said.
"Who the heck knows what's going to happen in this economy and this market over the next year," he said. "I think having a little extra cushion is really good."
The money toward safety programs includes a $1 million grant to Ohio Emergency Medical Services and the state fire marshal to expand firefighter training programs for small departments.
Fire Marshal Larry Flowers said the money would allow training for nearly 1,000 firefighters.
Other money will be used to extend a $15 million program for an additional two years - through the 2017 budget year - to fund safety grants to businesses to reduce workplace injuries.
About $2 million more will be used to fund research at state universities to address areas of workplace safety and health, such as over-exertion, trips and falls and muscular and skeletal disorders.
And additional money will be committed to add health and wellness information to the Ohio Safety Council Program.
The strong return for the workers' compensation investments could also lead to reductions in premium costs to business, Buehrer said. That rate review will be done in the fall.
Premiums have been reduced three times in the last four years.

Source: http://www.cleveland.com/open/index.ssf/2014/08/gov_john_kasich_announces_1_bi.html
