Public Statements
Marion Star - Jobs in Focus During Governor's Visit to Marion
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: Aug. 9, 2014
Location: Marion, OH

By Nick Bechtel
A pair of state officials stopped in town over the weekend to meet locals and host a panel on jobs and manufacturing.
In their tour across Ohio preparing for the upcoming election, Gov. John Kasich and Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor stopped Saturday afternoon at the Wyandot Snack Company to discuss the strengths and struggles of Marion and Ohio.
The theme of the hour-long discussion centered on job creation. Kasich started the meeting by saying Ohio was "down 350,000 jobs" before he was elected.
"Now we are up over 260,000 jobs," he said. "We've gone from number 48 in the country in job creation to number 5. We're the number one job creator in the Midwest."
Among the more than 60 in attendance, Kasich called out seven RAMTEC students who shared the reasons why they chose non-traditional schooling. One of the seniors told Kasich he got into mechanical engineering because of his passion for video games.
"You turn him to something that's connected to it (his passion), and you don't lose him," he said. "We don't do enough of this in our schools."
Tri-Rivers Career Center Chuck Speelman invited the students to attend as he served on the panel, answering some of Kasich's questions about the success of the program.
"They heard we were doing some unique things, bringing education and business together, and wanted to hear our perspective," he said.
Despite that success, funding remains an issue for the school district. Tri-Rivers was the only education-related levy on the ballot to pass this year's primary elections. The vote failed in Marion County, but passed with assistance from other counties.
"We had to make over a million dollars in cuts in June," he said. "People, businesses, we all have to learn to live within our budgets."
In addition to jobs and education, the panel also touched on manufacturing, business and opiate addiction.
Nick Chilton, president and CEO of Wyandot Inc., said Kasich requested to come back to Marion; the governor's staff stopped by the area during his 2010 campaign tour.
"He's a politician who actually worked in business and knows what he's talking about," Chilton said. "He's very committed to what the state can do to help your business."
State Senator Dave Burke and state Representatives Dorothy Pelanda and Jeff McClain also spoke to the crowd of supporters.
Kasich's visit to Marion was part of a two-day meet-and-greet tour through eight Ohio cities. Neither he nor Taylor made time to speak with media at their appearance.
The gubernatorial election will be Nov. 4. Incumbents Kasich and Taylor are challenged by Ed FitzGerald and Sharen Neuhardt.

Source: http://www.marionstar.com/story/news/local/2014/08/09/jobs-focus-governors-visit-marion/13836701/?from=global&sessionKey=&autologin=
