Public Statements
The Columbus Dispatch - State, City Fund 160 Preschool Slots
News Article
By: John Kasich
Date: July 19, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Will Drabold
More spots for full-day preschool will be available to Columbus children, after Mayor Michael B. Coleman announced a partnership with the state yesterday.
Coleman praised Gov. John Kasich for providing $640,000 toward the city's pre-kindergarten program. The mayor said he will ask the city council on Monday to spend $700,000 in matching money to turn 160 state-funded half-day spots into full-day spots.
With the $3.4 million the city has already allocated, enough for 350 full-day spots, Columbus can now offer more than 500 full-day pre-kindergarten spots, Coleman said. Pre-school providers around Columbus have told the city they have that many spots.
Families making 200 percent of the poverty line -- $47,700 for a family of four -- or less are eligible for the 160 spots. That differs from the previously announced 350 spots, where parents must make between 125 and 300 percent of the poverty line.
Coleman, a Democrat, and Kasich, a Republican, appeared together on the Near East Side at the Columbus Early Learning Center. They said the public should be encouraged by their cooperation on preschool funding.
Coleman has endorsed Democratic gubernatorial candidate Ed FitzGerald, who introduced a plan in May to provide preschool programs statewide.
State lawmakers allocated $2.2 million toward pre-kindergarten programs in Columbus City Schools' boundaries in the state's two year budget last year. The Kasich administration is allocating $640,000 of that money toward the program Coleman announced this year called Early Start Columbus.
Coleman said he's happy to have the money to expand his program and that he couldn't have done it without Kasich.
"We're the only city in the state to align our city with state funds," Coleman said. "(It's) so important and so significant."
During his speech, Kasich said "we're gonna have to put more into" preschool but offered no specifics on additional funding. State funding for preschool has been cut in half during the past decade.
This year's state allocation of $45 million for early-childhood education programs is an increase of $12 million from last year. But in 2004, the state spent an inflation-adjusted
$92 million on such programs, according to the Legislative Service Commission.
Coleman acknowledged in his speech that thanking Kasich and appearing with him a few months before the election would surprise some people. But he argued that "this is how it should work. Kids don't care what party you are."
Kasich agreed. "Mike and I do a lot of things together," Kasich said. "People have a hard time seeing Republicans and Democrats together. You know what gets in the way? Ego. Who gets credit. Who wins the fight."
Dan Williamson, a spokesman for Coleman, said his office reached out to FitzGerald's campaign recently to let them know the event was coming. It wouldn't have been appropriate to invite FitzGerald to the event, Williamson said.
For his part, FitzGerald said he understood why Coleman is working with Kasich.
"Mayor Coleman is supporting me, he's voting for me, he gave me a nice endorsement," FitzGerald said. "He works on things with Gov. Kasich from time to time. There is nothing wrong with that."

Source: http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/local/2014/07/18/Kasich_Coleman_announce_state_support_for_preschool.html
