Public Statements
Ohio's Key Assets Get Priority in State Construction Funding Proposal
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: March 19, 2014
Location: Columbus, OH

Ohio's 2014 Capital Budget, unveiled today by Gov. John R. Kasich, Senate President Keith Faber and House Speaker William G. Batchelder, includes significant new support for local communities' construction priorities as part of an overall plan for needed improvements to Ohio's public facilities, including local schools, colleges and universities, parks and prisons. Ohio's renewed fiscal health, strengthening economy, careful budget management and stronger credit outlook make the key investments possible and support further job creation and an improved quality of life for Ohioans.
The Capital Budget is generally enacted every two years to fund the most pressing construction and maintenance needs of state government, schools and higher education, with priority given to improvements that boost job creation and economic growth. Recommendations for funding in this year's plan came from a variety of sources, including both metropolitan and rural communities. Funding recommendations for Ohio's museums, performing arts facilities and other cultural venues were also received from leaders of Ohio's arts community.
Once fully enacted, Ohio's proposed new public construction budget will create approximately 31,000 new jobs over the next several years from the $2.386 billion it injects into needed repairs, maintenance and construction of publicly owned buildings and other infrastructure at the state and local level.
"We've still got work to do, but Ohio's definitely getting back on its feet and because of that, and because we've managed our money well, we can catch up on some needed maintenance and construction of public facilities, including at the local level. I'm glad it's happening and I'm glad that so many of these requests were developed independently by local communities based on their own needs and priorities," said Ohio Governor John R. Kasich.
"An important part of attracting and retaining jobs is making sure our communities are places where people want to live, work, and raise their family," said Ohio Senate President Keith Faber. "Our strong fiscal management has given us the ability to help our communities maintain their infrastructure and invest in important community projects which are focused on quality of life and economic development to grow our economy."
"I am proud of the good work that has been accomplished by the House, Senate and governor through the last two state budgets, which have helped put Ohio back on the right track," Speaker Batchelder said. "Because of our ability to be good stewards of the public's money, we are now able to make significant new investments in our state to strengthen our ability to revitalize Ohio and create jobs. I extend my sincere thanks to the members of the House and their local communities for helping make this proposal possible."

Source: http://www.governor.ohio.gov/Portals/0/03.18.14%20Ohio's%20Key%20Assets%20Get%20Priority%20in%20State%20Construction%20Funding%20Proposal.pdf
