Public Statements
Companies Expected to Create Nearly 1,600 Jobs - Projects Account for $328M in New Capital Investment
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: March 26, 2012
Location: Columbus, OH

--Efforts by Gov. John R. Kasich and his administration to improve the state's jobsfriendly climate continues to produce good news for Ohio families. Twelve projects that are expected to create 1,580 new jobs and retain 1,936 jobs in several communities were approved on Monday by the Ohio Tax Credit Authority (TCA). In all, these projects are estimated to result in $76.1 million in new payroll and more than $328 million in new capital investment.
"Ohio continues to move the needle in the right direction when it comes to job creation," said Gov. Kasich. "The reforms we've made and the policies we continue to pursue are focused entirely on creating an environment in which job creators can succeed, and we're seeing results. Knowing nearly 1,600 families around the state will be helped by these projects is really fantastic."Highlights from Monday's TCA meeting include:
Sixty full-time jobs will be created in Granville Township (Mercer Co.) by AG Conversions Ohio, LLC. The company will build a new facility where it will use new technology to convert manure from fertilizer into a high-value, odorless, no-pathogen soil supplement. This technology is expected to directly impact efforts to control outbreaks of toxic blue-green algae that has plagued Grand Lake St. Marys for several years. The project is expected to generate $3.4 million in new annual payroll. The TCA approved a 45 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit (JCTC).
In Holmes and Tuscarawas Counties, ProVia Door, Inc. is expected to expand operations where it produces aluminum storm doors, vinyl patio doors, vinyl windows, and aluminum storm windows. The project will create 75 full-time jobs and will generate $3.3 million in new payroll and retain $15.9 in existing payroll. The TCA approved a 45 percent, six-year JCTC.
A new project in the Village of South Point (Lawrence Co.) is expected to create 25 full-time jobs. The TCA approved a 40 percent, five-year JCTC for Intermountain Electronics, Inc. to add a location where workers will design, engineer, manufacture, and service custom electrical distribution and control equipment for underground mining, surface mining, power generation, oil and gas, renewable energy, water/wastewater, refineries, tunneling, utilities, and federal, state, and local governments.
Additional Approvals by the TCA
Quantum Health, Inc. (Location TBD)
Quantum Health, Inc. expects to create 525 full-time positions, generating $24.4 million in additional annual payroll (and retaining $11 million in existing payroll) as a result of the company's expansion project in a location to be determined. Quantum Health creates an employer-sponsored "virtual medical home." Through coordinated efforts, the company centralizes the fragmented healthcare process into a single staff of Care Coordinators, who address all questions related to benefits, claims, and network providers. The TCA approved a 60 percent, eight-year tax credit to Quantum Health.
Central Ohio
Technical Rubber Company, Inc., Village of Johnstown (Licking Co.)
Technical Rubber Company expects to create 29 full-time positions, generating $900,000 in additional payroll (and retaining $8.2 million in existing payroll) as a result of the company's expansion project in the Village of Johnstown (Licking Co.). The company, which offers tire repair and wheel service solutions, was approved by the TCA for a 35 percent, six-year JCTC.
Northeast Ohio
Parker-Hannifin Corporation, City of Ravenna (Portage Co.)
Parker-Hannifin Corporation expects to create 29 full-time positions generating $1.4 million in additional annual payroll (and retaining $20.3 million in existing payroll) as part of the company's expansion project in the City of Ravenna (Portage Co.). Parker Hannifin Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precisionengineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial, and aerospace markets. The TCA approved a 45 percent, five-year tax credit to Parker-Hannifin Corporation.
Republic Steel and Republic N&T Railroad, Inc., City of Lorain (Lorain Co.)
Republic Steel and Republic N&T Railroad expect to create 449 full-time positions, generating $19.6 million in additional annual payroll (and retaining $33 million in existing payroll) as a result of their expansion project in the City of Lorain (Lorain Co.). The company, which is North America's leading supplier of special bar quality (SBQ) steel, has been approved by the TCA for a 75 percent, 15-year JCTC.
Selas Heat Technology Company LLC, City of Streetsboro (Portage Co.)
Selas Heat Technology Company LLC expects to create 22 full-time positions, generating $1.2 million in additional annual payroll (and retaining $470,000 in existing payroll) as part of the company's relocation to the City of Streetsboro (Portage Co.). Selas Heat Technology Company manufactures industrial burners, combustion systems, and safety equipment for the industrial thermal processing industry. The TCA approved a 45 percent, six-year JCTC to Selas Heat Technology Company.
Viking Forge Corporation, City of Streetsboro (Portage Co.)
Viking Forge Corporation expects to create 40 full-time positions, generating $900,000 in additional payroll (and retaining $6.2 million in existing payroll) as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Streetsboro (Portage Co.). Viking Forge is a precision forger dedicated to using technology to advance the science of forging. The TCA approved a 45 percent, five-year tax credit to Viking Forge Corporation.
Southwest Ohio
Pilot Chemical Company of Ohio, City of Middletown (Butler Co.) & City of Sharonville, (Hamilton Co.)
Pilot Chemical Company of Ohio expects to create 38 full-time positions, generating $2 million in additional annual payroll (and retaining $10.9 million in existing payroll) as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Middletown (Butler Co.) and City of Sharonville, Hamilton Co. This project has two project locations within 15 miles of each other. Pilot Chemical Company manufactures and distributes specialty chemicals to household and industrial detergent, personal care, lubricant, oilfield, emulsion polymerization, textile, enhanced oil recovery, metal treatment, and agricultural industries. The TCA approved a 50 percent, six-year tax credit to Pilot Chemical Company of Ohio.
RoundTower Technologies, Inc., City of Blue Ash (Hamilton Co.)
RoundTower Technologies, Inc. expects to create 47 full-time equivalent employees generating $5.1 million in additional payroll (and retaining $4.4 million in existing payroll) as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Blue Ash, Hamilton Co. RoundTower Technologies is an IT Solutions Consultant focused on Data Storage and Virtualization. Their core focus is Storage and Virtualization, and they help clients solve their business problems by recommending solutions to help protect, leverage and control their information. The Ohio Tax Credit Authority approved a 50 percent, sevenyear tax credit to RoundTower Technologies, Inc.
Western Ohio
Abbott Laboratories, City of Tipp City (Miami Co.)
Abbott Laboratories expects to create 241 full-time positions, generating $12.1 million in new annual payroll as a result of the company's new location project in the City of Tipp City (Miami Co.). The company, which is a leader in adult and pediatric nutrition, received approval for a 75 percent, 15-year JCTC from the TCA

Source: http://governor.ohio.gov/Portals/0/03.26.12,%20TCA%20Release.pdf
