Public Statements
Kasich Signs 12 Bills
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: May 31, 2016
Location: Columbus, OH

Today Governor John R. Kasich signed the following bills into law:
S.B. 188 (Seitz, Tavares) designates the month of April as "Genocide Awareness Month."
Sub. S.B. 215 (Hughes, LaRose) grants a person immunity from civil liability for any damage resulting from the forcible entry of a motor vehicle for the purpose of removing a minor or an animal from the vehicle because the minor or the animal is in imminent danger of suffering harm.
Sub. H.B. 37 (Stinziano, Duffey) establishes exemptions to the Open Container Law regarding beer or intoxicating liquor purchased from specified D liquor permit holders and consumed on the premises of a market that meets specified conditions, eliminates the maximum permitted alcohol content of beer, and establishes labeling requirements for beer containing higher alcohol content.
Sub. H.B. 116 (Brown, Ginter) is regarding insurance and Medicaid coverage of medication synchronization, professional discipline for actions involving dangerous drugs, consult agreements between pharmacists and physicians, pharmacists dispensing or selling drugs without a prescription, prescriptive authority of physician assistants, and acceptance of a certificate of need application for a new nursing home.
H.B. 180 (Maag) prohibits a public authority from requiring a contractor to employ a certain percentage of individuals from the geographic area of the public authority for the construction or professional design of a public improvement.
Sub. H.B. 187 (Ginter) authorizes specified emergency personnel to provide certain emergency medical services to an injured dog or cat.
Am. Sub. H.B. 207 (Henne, McColley) eliminates the minimum number of employees required for a private sector employer or a board of county commissioners with respect to the construction of a sports facility to obtain self-insuring status under the Workers' Compensation Law, allows a state fund employer to have a workers' compensation claim that is likely to be subrogated by a third party paid from the surplus fund account in the state insurance fund rather than charged to the employer's experience and requires a self-insuring employer resuming paying premiums to the State Insurance Fund or a self-insuring professional employer organization after a lease termination to submit certain records to the Administrator of Workers' Compensation.
H.B. 219 (Barnes) designates January as "Thyroid Health Awareness Month."
Sub. H.B. 240 (Huffman, Johnson, T.) defines the legal residence of a dead person for purposes of the body's disposal; recognizes that coroners include medical examiners; changes the qualifications for holding office as a coroner of a charter county; requires, under certain conditions, and authorizes, under other conditions, supplemental compensation for coroners who are forensic pathologists; revises how the office of coroner is filled when a vacancy cannot be filled by election or appointment; specifies the disposition of a firearm when a person meets death under certain circumstances; specifies who pays for the autopsy of an inmate of a state correctional facility; and makes other changes to the coroners' law.
Sub. H.B. 299 (Blessing, Rezabek) permits the temporary, legal, or permanent custodian of a qualified child to apply for an Autism Scholarship and revises the law regarding the testing and graduation requirements for students attending a chartered nonpublic school.
H.B. 352 (Johnson, T.) designates April as "Osteopathic Medicine Recognition Month."
H.B. 431 (Sheehy, Patterson) designates February 17th as "Annie Glenn Communication Disorders Awareness Day."

Source: http://governor.ohio.gov/MediaRoom/PressReleases/TabId/200/ArticleId/429/language/en-US/kasich-signs-12-bills-5-31-16.aspx
