Public Statements
Kasich Announces Energy Summit to Help Craft Jobs-Friendly Energy Policies for Ohio
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: May 10, 2011
Location: Columbus, OH

Today, Ohio Governor John R. Kasich announced that he will hold "The Ohio Governor's 21st Century Energy & Economic Development Summit," at The Ohio State University on Sept. 21 and 22. The purpose of the Summit will be to help the Kasich Administration and Ohio policy makers develop a 21st-century energy policy for Ohio that will support the state's long term economic growth and job creation.
Summit participants will include preeminent leaders from the energy sector, business, education, state and local government, the regulatory community, non-governmental organizations and economic development. They will provide considered points of view on issues at the intersection of economic development, education, energy and the environment that Ohio must address to develop a 21st-century energy and economic development policy.
The summit will be coordinated by Battelle, the world's largest, nonprofit R&D organization and a leading energy research center.
"Right now Ohio essentially has no energy policy, but at the same time energy costs are major factors in the success of every sector of our economy, especially manufacturing and agriculture. The energy summit will help my Administration and other policymakers begin crafting an energy policy that allows Ohio to better manage an issue so important to our state's ability to create jobs and grow our economy. Battelle's the perfect teammate to help Ohio on this work and I appreciate that they've stepped up and agreed to produce the Summit," said Kasich.
Based in Ohio, Battelle co-manages six of the nation's leading energy research laboratories for the U.S. Department of Energy and one for the United Kingdom government. Battelle has a history of helping the private sector and government find solutions to tough energy problems.
"We are pleased to use our expertise to help develop a sustainable and economically viable energy policy for our state," said Martin Toomajian, President of Battelle's Energy, Environment and Material Sciences global operations.
Both the Kasich administration and Battelle are committed to ensuring that the best ideas are highlighted. As Governor, Kasich heads one of the nation's leading manufacturing and energy-consuming states. Ohio is home to nationally-renowned electric utilities that are critical to Ohio's current and future economy. With both huge coal deposits and the potential for significant production of oil and natural gas from shale deposits, as well as conservation and renewable energy technologies, Ohio's energy options are robust.
Those interested in receiving regular updates on Summit news and registration information can sign up at energypolicy@battelle.org.

Source: http://governor.ohio.gov/LinkClick.aspx?fileticket=AZOUcxfDQBI%3d&tabid=70
