Public Statements
Kasich Marks 100 Days in Office
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: April 19, 2011
Location: Columbus, OH

Today marks 100 days since Gov. John R. Kasich and Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor were sworn into office. By emphasizing teamwork, communication and a change in the way the state does business, Gov. Kasich and his Cabinet directors have implemented significant policy changes that are already positively impacting Ohio.
"I was looking at this [fact sheet] last night...this is nine pages of work that we have been able to achieve as a team. It's just amazing in 100 days. But we did not have time to waste, and frankly we gotta keep ramping it up. We've got enormous challenges in this state...Ohioans want things done. Change is difficult for folks; there is no question about it. Change is extremely complicated. But you know what? Ohioans don't want the same old same old. Ohioans want this state to be strengthened again and prosperous again and successful again. And that's my motivation," said Kasich during today's press conference.
Highlights of the first 100 days:
Keeping Ohio Companies in Ohio--American Greetings, Bob Evans, Diebold and Goodyear saving more than 5,500 jobs and hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenue are saved.
JobsOhio was established through House Bill 1 and is a non-profit economic development corporation that will work more effectively than Ohio's current state-centered efforts to retain and attract businesses. JobsOhio will be managed by a board of directors who are leaders in the business world, and because it is not a government entity, it will move at the speed of the market rather than at the speed of statute.
The Jobs Budget returns Ohio to fiscal stability by closing an $8 billion shortfall without raising taxes while preserving an $800 million tax cut for Ohio families.
Common Sense Initiative (CSI), led by Lt. Gov. Taylor, is already eliminating undue burdens on business and helping Ohio companies grow and thrive.
Statewide Coordination in the Fight Against Opiate Abuse through the new Cabinet-level Opiate Task Force will direct addiction prevention efforts across the state. The task force has already led to the raid of two pill mills where importance evidence was collected that may assist in this effort.
100 DAYS FACT SHEET: http://governor.ohio.gov/LinkClick.aspx?fileticket=cDiLUh1DvPM%3d&tabid=77
100 DAYS VIDEO: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=na4RPpG4EfM

Source: http://governor.ohio.gov/LinkClick.aspx?fileticket=6ysYfxoS2as%3d&tabid=40
