Public Statements
Statewide Investments to Create $31 Million in New Payroll
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: May 23, 2016
Location: Columbus, OH

Today Governor John R. Kasich announced the approval of assistance for seven projects set to create 839 new jobs and retain 2,025 jobs statewide. During its monthly meeting, the Ohio Tax Credit Authority (TCA) reviewed economic development proposals brought to the board by JobsOhio and its regional partners. Collectively, the projects are expected to result in $31.4 million in new payroll, and spur more than $193 million in investment across Ohio.
Projects approved by the TCA include:
SOUTHWEST
Advanced Testing Laboratory, Inc., City of Blue Ash (Hamilton Co.) expects to create 54 full-time positions, generating $2.2 million in new annual payroll and retaining $4.6 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Blue Ash (Hamilton Co.). Advanced Testing Laboratory provides scientific sourcing solutions for the consumer products, pharmaceutical and medical device sectors. The TCA approved a 1.156 percent, five-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
Ultimus Fund Solutions, LLC, City of Springdale (Hamilton Co.) expects to create 100 full-time positions, generating $6 million in new annual payroll and retaining $7.1 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Springdale (Hamilton Co.). Ultimus is a provider of mutual fund services. The TCA approved a 1.547 percent, seven-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
CENTRAL
Bleckmann USA, LLC, Village of Johnstown (Licking Co.) expects to create 200 full-time positions, generating $5.8 million in new annual payroll as a result of the company's new project in the Village of Johnstown (Licking Co.). Bleckmann operates logistics and distribution services to the retail and e-commerce industries throughout Europe. The TCA approved a 1.178 percent, seven-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
Dollar Shave Club, Inc., City of Grove City (Franklin Co.) expects to create 185 full-time positions, generating $5.8 million in new annual payroll as a result of the company's new project in the City of Grove City (Franklin Co.). Dollar Shave Club is an online retailer that sells subscriptions for men's razors and personal care products. The TCA approved a 1.222 percent, seven- year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
United Parcel Service, Inc., City of Columbus (Franklin Co.) expects to create 75 full-time positions, generating $3.2 million in new annual payroll and retaining $81.6 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Columbus (Franklin Co.). United Parcel Service is a package delivery company. The TCA approved a 1.232 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
NORTHEAST
Amazon.com.dedc, LLC, City of Twinsburg (Summit Co.) expects to create 150 full-time positions, generating $4.1 million in new annual payroll as a result of the company's new project in the City of Twinsburg (Summit Co.). Amazon is an internet-based retailer. The TCA approved a 1.113 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
Pulse Flow Technologies, Inc., City of Willoughby (Lake Co.) expects to create 75 full-time positions, generating $4.4 million in new annual payroll and retaining $15,000 in existing payroll as a result of the company's new project in the City of Willoughby (Lake Co.). Pulse Flow Technologies produces compression therapy equipment to improve blood flow. The TCA approved a 1.539 percent, five-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.

Source: http://governor.ohio.gov/MediaRoom/PressReleases/TabId/200/ArticleId/421/language/en-US/statewide-investments-to-create-31-million-in-new-payroll-5-23-16.aspx
