Public Statements
Statewide Investments To Create $40 Million In New Payroll
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: Jan. 30, 2017
Location: Columbus, OH

Today Governor John R. Kasich announced the approval of assistance for twelve projects set to create 694 new jobs and retain 2,501 jobs statewide. During its monthly meeting, the Ohio Tax Credit Authority (TCA) reviewed economic development proposals brought to the board by JobsOhio and its regional partners. Collectively, the projects are expected to result in more than $40 million in new payroll, and spur more than $164 million in investments across Ohio.
Projects approved by the TCA include:
CENTRAL
Jefferson Industries Corporation, Village of West Jefferson (Madison Co.) expects to create 20 full-time positions, generating $680,000 in new annual payroll and retaining $28.8 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the Village of West Jefferson (Madison Co.). Jefferson Industries creates auto body components to protect automobile passengers. The TCA approved a 1.598 percent, five-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
Rocket Code LLC, City of Columbus (Franklin Co.) expects to create 30 full-time positions, generating $2.3 million in new annual payroll and retaining $1.3 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Columbus (Franklin Co.). Rocket Code builds ecommerce software and websites to foster relationships between customers and brands. The TCA approved a 1.517 percent, seven-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp., City of Columbus (Franklin Co.) expects to create 65 full-time positions, generating $2.3 million in new annual payroll and retaining $78.4 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Columbus (Franklin Co.). West-Ward Pharmaceuticals provides generic prescription medication to chain stores, wholesalers, distributors, health systems and government agencies. The TCA approved a 0.689 percent, seven-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.

Source:
