Public Statements
Statewide Investments To Create $25 Million In New Payroll
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: Feb. 29, 2016
Location: Columbus, OH

Today Governor John R. Kasich announced the approval of assistance for eight projects set to create 453 new jobs and retain 2,163 jobs statewide. During its monthly meeting, the Ohio Tax Credit Authority (TCA) reviewed economic development proposals brought to the board by JobsOhio and its regional partners. Collectively, the projects are expected to result in $25.2 million in new payroll, and spur approximately $16.7 million in investment across Ohio.
Projects approved by the TCA include:
WEST
Polyfill, LLC, City of Sidney (Shelby Co.) expects to create 30 full-time positions, generating $1.6 million in new annual payroll and retaining $2.7 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Sidney (Shelby Co.). Polyfill manufactures plastic sheeting for the purpose of noise reduction. The TCA approved a 1.180 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
SOUTHWEST
Blue & Co. of Ohio, LLC, City of Cincinnati (Hamilton Co.) expects to create 20 full-time positions, generating $1.6 million in new annual payroll and retaining $1.7 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Cincinnati (Hamilton Co.). Blue & Co. of Ohio is a CPA firm. The TCA approved a 1.345 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for the project.
Brothers Trading Co., Inc., City of Springboro (Warren Co.) expects to create 50 full-time positions, generating $2.5 million in new annual payroll and retaining $16.7 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Springboro (Warren Co.). Brothers Trading Co. is a logistics and distribution business. The TCA approved a 1.135 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
Macy's Credit and Customer Services, Inc. & FDS Bank, Deerfield Township (Warren Co.) and City of Springdale (Hamilton Co.) expect to create 175 full-time positions, generating $4.9 million in new annual payroll and retaining $69.5 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's consolidation project in Deerfield Township (Warren Co.) and City of Springdale (Hamilton Co.). The TCA approved a 0.849 percent, seven-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
PatientPoint Network Solutions, LLC, Sycamore Township (Hamilton Co.) expects to create 22 full-time positions, generating $1.3 million in new annual payroll and retaining $9.3 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in Sycamore Township (Hamilton Co.). PatientPoint offers local healthcare businesses interactive technological solutions for patient care. The TCA approved a 1.108 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
NORTHEAST
CardioInsight Technologies Inc., City of Independence (Cuyahoga Co.) expects to create 28 full-time positions, generating $2.9 million in new annual payroll and retaining $2.9 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Independence (Cuyahoga Co.). CardioInsight Technologies is a medical device company. The TCA approved a 1.800 percent, five-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
LOCATION TO BE DETERMINED
Health Carousel, LLC (Location TBD) expects to create 85 full-time positions, generating $6 million in new annual payroll and retaining $4.8 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project at a to-be-determined location. Health Carousel is a workforce solutions company that focuses on the healthcare industry. The TCA approved a 1.657 percent, eight-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
Navigator Management Partners, LLC (Location TBD) expects to create 43 full-time positions, generating $4.4 million in new annual payroll and retaining $12.5 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project at a to-be-determined location. Navigator Management Partners is a management and technology consulting firm. The TCA approved a 1.590 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.

Source: http://governor.ohio.gov/MediaRoom/PressReleases/TabId/200/ArticleId/348/language/en-US/statewide-investments-to-create-25-million-in-new-payroll-2-29-16.aspx
