Public Statements
Statewide Investments to Create Nearly $50 Million in New Payroll
Press Release
By: John Kasich
Date: Jan. 25, 2016
Location: Columbus, OH

Today Governor John R. Kasich announced the approval of assistance for ten projects set to create 1,227 jobs and retain 1,564 jobs statewide. During its monthly meeting, the Ohio Tax Credit Authority (TCA) reviewed economic development proposals brought to the board by JobsOhio and its regional partners. Collectively, the projects are expected to result in $49,438,440 in new payroll and spur approximately $96.3 million in investment across Ohio.
Projects approved by the TCA include:
CENTRAL
Kenco Logistic Services, LLC, City of Groveport (Franklin Co.) expects to create 63 full-time positions, generating $2.9 million in new annual payroll as a result of the company's new project in the City of Groveport (Franklin Co.). Kenco Logistic Services is a logistics company which includes distribution and fulfillment, transportation management and material handling services. The TCA approved a 1.310 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
Ventech Solutions, City of Columbus (Franklin Co.) expects to create 75 full-time positions, generating $4.9 million in new annual payroll and retaining $4.2 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Columbus (Franklin Co.). Ventech Solutions is a system integration and consulting services firm. The TCA approved a 1.600 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
NORTHWEST
NOX US, LLC, City of Fostoria (Seneca Co.) expects to create 150 full-time positions, generating $4.7 million in new annual payroll as a result of the company's new project in the City of Fostoria (Seneca Co.). NOX US is a PVC floor tile manufacturer. The TCA approved a 1.198 percent, six-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
WESTERN
King's Command Foods, LLC, Village of Versailles (Darke Co.) expects to create 160 full-time positions, generating $4.7 million in new annual payroll and retaining $1.5 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the Village of Versailles (Darke Co.). King's Command Foods manufactures pre-cooked and ready-to-cook meat products for the food service and retail industry. The TCA approved a 1.164 percent, seven-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
SOUTHWEST
Planes Moving & Storage, Inc. and Global Workplace Solutions, LLC, West Chester Twp. (Butler Co.) expects to create 30 full-time positions, generating $1.2 million in new annual payroll and retaining $12 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in West Chester Twp. (Butler Co.). Planes Moving & Storage is a relocation and transportation business. The TCA approved a .693 percent, five-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
Reztark Design Studio, LLC, City of Cincinnati (Hamilton Co.) expects to create 16 full-time positions, generating $768,000 in new annual payroll and retaining $1.5 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Cincinnati (Hamilton Co.). Reztark Design Studio is a full-service architectural and design firm. The TCA approved a .838 percent, five-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
NORTHEAST
Dealer Tire, LLC, City of Cleveland (Cuyahoga Co.) expects to create 125 full-time positions, generating $10 million in new annual payroll and retaining $49.3 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Cleveland (Cuyahoga Co.). Dealer Tire distributes tires and parts to dealerships and original equipment manufacturers. The TCA approved a 2.024 percent, eight-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
Shearer's Foods, LLC, City of Massillon (Stark Co.) expects to create 130 full-time positions, generating $3.9 million in new annual payroll and retaining $20 million in existing payroll as a result of the company's expansion project in the City of Massillon (Stark Co.). Shearer's Foods manufacturers snack foods. The TCA approved a .993 percent, eight-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
TBD LOCATION
Diamond Drugs, Inc., (Location TBD) expects to create 34 full-time positions, generating $1.1 million in new annual payroll as a result of the company's new project in a to-be-determined location. Diamond Drugs is a pharmaceutical provider for correctional facilities. The TCA approved a .969 percent, five-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.
MedAssets Net Revenue Systems, LLC (Location TBD) expects to create 444 full-time positions, generating $15.4 million in new annual payroll as a result of the company's new project at a to-be-determined location. MedAssets Net Revenue Systems provides technology enabled products and services for hospitals, health systems and other non-acute healthcare providers. The TCA approved a 1.559 percent, nine-year Job Creation Tax Credit for this project.

Source: http://governor.ohio.gov/MediaRoom/PressReleases/TabId/200/ArticleId/319/language/en-US/statewide-investments-to-create-nearly-50-million-in-new-payroll-1-25-16.aspx
