Public Statements
Court Appoints Fiscal Administrator to Stabilize St. Joseph Finances; Brings Town One Step Closer to Clean Water
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: June 6, 2016
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Governor John Bel Edwards announced today that the town of St. Joseph is one step closer to clear and clean water for its citizens.
"The appointment of a fiscal administrator is a major milestone in our efforts to bring clear, clean water to St. Joseph," said Gov. Edwards. "Making this a reality for the people of this town has been priority for me since I took office, and while we still have a significant amount of work ahead of us, the people of St. Joseph should know that assistance is on the way in the near future."
The Governor's Office, together with the Attorney General's Office, filed a petition last month, asking the Sixth District Court to appoint a fiscal administrator for St. Joseph. After the Governor's Office negotiated an agreement with the town to accept the appointment of a fiscal administrator, the court approved a consent judgment today ordering that a fiscal administrator for the town be appointed, effective immediately.
As agreed to by both the town and the state, the court named former First Assistant Legislative Auditor David Greer to the position. Greer was in St. Joseph to begin work today. He is tasked with restoring the town's financial stability.
St. Joseph has struggled to access nearly $8 million in state capital outlay funding because it has not submitted a clean audit for the past year. Due to the town's failure to comply with Louisiana's audit law, it is not permitted to receive state construction funding. Legislative Auditor Daryl Purpera has previously indicated that, once a fiscal administrator is in place to restore financial stability to the town, he will lift St. Joseph's audit non-compliance status. Once the non-compliance status is lifted, previously unavailable funding will be accessible, and the much needed repairs to the town's water distribution lines and water treatment plant can begin.
The court will end the fiscal administrator's appointment, in accordance with state law, once it concludes the town is fiscally stable.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/court-appoints-fiscal-administrator-to-stabilize-st-joseph-finances
