Public Statements
Gov. Edwards Responds to Attorney General's Opinion on Non-Discrimination Executive Order
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Today, Governor John Bel Edwards released the following statement on the opinion released by the Louisiana Attorney General regarding an executive order that prohibits state agencies from discriminating against individuals based on race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, political affiliation, disability, or age.
"It is my obligation as the Governor of Louisiana to responsibly lead in developing and implementing best policies and practices across executive agencies so that state government operates in a manner worthy of the people of Louisiana. However, the attorney general has overstepped the authority given to his office, and he is now attempting to erode the constitutionally granted executive order power of the governor and disrupting the work of state agencies. My executive order, as has been the case with previous executive orders, is a fully constitutional, good faith effort by the state to eliminate employment discrimination of any kind," said Gov. Edwards. "More importantly, this executive order, for the first time, was written in a way that respects the religious beliefs of every single person in Louisiana. Discrimination, of any kind, is not a Louisiana value, and I will do everything in my power, including enforcing this order, to foster a productive and welcoming work environment in Louisiana's state government."
In his letter to legislators requesting the opinion by the Louisiana Attorney General, State Representative Mike Johnson (R-Bossier City) indicated that Gov. Edwards' executive order raised serious "structural questions under the Louisiana Constitution," citing language that refers to state "officers" and "political subdivisions." However, identical language has been included in executive orders by previous administrations that Rep. Johnson praised at the time of their signing.
"Rep. Johnson, it seems, is taking a sudden interest in the constitutionality of language with which he had no objection prior to his current political pursuits," Gov. Edwards continued. "Discrimination isn't welcome in Louisiana, but as is the case often, folks running for office seem to forget that we have an obligation to protect all of our citizens. I am not deterred by these actions by Rep. Johnson and the attorney general, and instead am more committed than ever to doing what's right for the people of Louisiana within the full authority of the Louisiana constitution."
BACKGROUND
On previous executive orders that included identical language as Gov. Edwards' order, Rep. Johnson was complimentary of the previous administration and raised no issues with the language included in both orders:
""This issue is imminent,' he said." (5/19/15, The Advocate)
"I applaud Governor Jindal for this Executive Order" -- (5/19/15, Plaquemine Post South)
State Representative Mike Johnson requested an opinion from the Attorney General's office regarding Gov. Edwards' non-discrimination executive order. The governor's office received a copy of the handout given to lawmakers urging them to join the request. A note at the top of the handout indicated that Rep. Johnson had discussed the opinion with the Attorney General prior to requesting it. A copy of the handout is available here.
Furthermore, Rep. Johnson indicated in several social media posts over the last week that he had been in contact with the Attorney General's office as they evaluated his written requests.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/edwards-responds-to-attorney-generals-opinion-on-nondiscrimination-executive-order
