Public Statements
The Times Picayune - House Should do the Right Thing, 'raise the age' in Louisiana
News Article
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: May 13, 2016
Location: Unknown

By Unknown
Only a vote of the full House is needed for the Legislature to take 17-year-olds who commit minor crimes out of the pipeline to adult jail and put Louisiana in line with most other states. A House committee passed Senate Bill 324 without objection Wednesday (May 11). The Senate voted overwhelmingly last week in favor of New Orleans Sen. J.P. Morrell's bill to "raise the age" from 17 to 18 for adult charges.
Rally supports bill to raise age for criminal charges
Rally supports bill to raise age for criminal charges
Gov. John Bel Edwards speaks in support of the legislation, saying, "it's the right thing to do for Louisiana."
The House vote is expected to be more difficult, but Sen. Morrell believes he is bringing some members around.
"When you look at the people who are in support of this bill, we've lost opposition and gathered additional support," he said. "I think what's happened is a groundswell of different people, whether it be activists for youth or businesses, they all realize it's the right thing to do."
It is the right thing to do. And it is the smart thing for the state to do.
Seventeen-year-olds who commit a nonviolent crime shouldn't end up in jail with adults, as they now do in Louisiana. Being in the same jails as hardened criminals makes it more likely youngsters will become repeat offenders. Having an adult record can make it difficult to get an education, join the military or find a good job.
Surely House members don't want to ruin a kid's life over a youthful misstep. "Having 17-year-olds not stigmatized by an adult conviction -- having those kids finish school and become taxpayers and workers -- that's a goal we all share," Sen. Morrell said.
Some House members are worried about state costs increasing when 17-year-olds are shifted to juvenile facilities, where expenses are higher per inmate per day. That concern is understandable with the state grappling with a $600 million deficit for next year's budget. But it would be wrong to keep sending children to adult jails just because it's cheaper on the front end.
Over time the state is expected to save money by raising the age. Juveniles typically are released sooner than adult offenders, and they are less likely to commit additional crimes and return to jail.
Other states have saved money after raising the age. Connecticut is saving $2 million per year since moving 17-year-olds to juvenile facilities, according to a study cited during legislative hearings.
The "raise the age" legislation is one of Gov. John Bel Edwards' key iniatives. "It's better for public safety because research conclusively shows that consistently the juvenile justice system does a better job preventing recidivism than the adult correction system," he said at a "raise the age" rally in April. "This means in the future, we will have fewer crime victims and less money spent on incarceration."
Seventeen-year-olds are still immature and make impulsive decisions that can get them into trouble, according to a study for lawmakers by LSU's Institute for Public Health and Justice in New Orleans. They tend to grow out of that behavior with time and are good candidates for rehabilitation, researchers said.
That doesn't mean their bad decisions should be ignored, but it makes the case for treating them as juvenile offenders.
Of course, some 17-year-olds commit violent crimes, and the adult system may be appropriate in those cases. Under Louisiana law offenders as young as 15 can be transferred to adult court for first- and second-degree murder, aggravated or first-degree rape or aggravated kidnapping. That provision would not change.
The vast majority of 17-year-old offenders in Louisiana aren't committing those kinds of crimes. Most of the 6,000 17-year-olds arrested in Louisiana 2014 were accused of nonviolent crimes, such as marijuana possession.
Louisiana sends more people per capita to jail than any other state, many of them for minor offenses. Ours is one of only nine states sending 17-year-olds through the adult system. We're giving up on thousands of children who merely made a mistake.
That's not the sort of place we should aspire to be.

Source: http://www.nola.com/politics/index.ssf/2016/05/raise_the_age_juvenile_2.html#incart_river_index
