Public Statements
The New Orleans Advocate - Baton Rouge School Officials: We Didn't Intend to Call Gov. John Bel Edwards a Liar in Pro-Vouchers TV Ad
News Article
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: May 13, 2016
Location: Unknown

By Unknown
An official with ties to a Baton Rouge school that had a role in a pro-voucher commercial that called Gov. John Bel Edwards a liar is disavowing the ad and said it made questionable claims.
The comments were included in a letter from Walter K. Williams, chairman of the Parish Council for St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church, to Ann Duplessis, president of the Louisiana Federation for Children, which launched the TV campaign.
Duplessis' group accused Edwards of lying to voters when he said state aid for vouchers would not be slashed.
Edwards vehemently denied the charge and said voucher dollars may drop from $42 million to $36 million because the state faces a $600 million shortfall.
Two students wearing St. Francis Xavier Catholic School shirts were in the initial, 30-second spot.
Williams said in his letter that the producers of the ad "were not forthcoming about the objectives and goals of the ad."
"Plainly, they did not realize they were participating in a political ad and feel that information was withheld from them purposefully," according to the letter.
"We believe you have endangered the fate of the scholarship program by portraying its supporters as being more concerned with the political nature of the program than in ensuring its continuance," the letter says.
In a prepared statement, Duplessis disputed the criticism.
"We don't believe that this letter represents the sentiments of parents who are benefiting from the scholarship program," she said.
"We recognize our commercial ruffled feathers," Duplessis said. "We must point out the letter was not signed by any of the parents."
She added, "In fact, the letter's author, Walter K. Williams, made a campaign contribution to Rep. Pat Smith, who has been an opponent of the Louisiana Scholarship Program." Smith is a Baton Rouge Democrat.
Vouchers, also called scholarships, are state aid that allows students from low-income families attending troubled public schools to attend private schools.
About 7,100 get the aid, mostly minorities and mostly in New Orleans and Baton Rouge.
St. Francis Xavier is one of roughly 130 schools statewide that accepts voucher students.
In a telephone interview on Friday, Williams said new ads by Duplessis' group photoshopped over St. Francis Xavier logos seen in the TV spot.
He said the new ad also removed charges that the governor lied.
The ad in dispute aired for about two weeks.
The plan all along was to remove charges that Edwards lied in the second round of ads after the first one sparked attention, Louisiana Federation for Children officials said.
State aid for vouchers for the 2016-17 school year will be settled when the Legislature finalizes the state's operating budget shortly before adjournment on June 6.

Source: http://www.theneworleansadvocate.com/news/15779556-123/baton-rouge-school-officials-we-didnt-intend-to-call-gov-john-bel-edwards-a-liar-in-pro-vouchers-tv
