Public Statements
The Times Picayune - Budget Crisis 'threatens the future of our children,' Gov. John Bel Edwards
Op-Ed
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: May 12, 2016
Location: New Orleans, LA

By John Edwards
For years, I traveled the state to share my vision for a more prosperous Louisiana. I assured you that, as governor, I would refocus our attention on priorities here at home by putting Louisiana first. Today, I still have that vision, and while it might not seem like it, Louisiana's brightest days are ahead of us.
Unfortunately, we're still dealing with a budget crisis that threatens our future and the future of our children. It took eight years to get us in this difficult position, and while we can't right this ship overnight, we're well on our way. After making some tough choices to stabilize our budget in the first special legislative session, we're still left with a $600 million budget deficit for the fiscal year that begins on July 1.
I ran for governor for a lot of reasons, and chief among them is this: if our young people want to leave Louisiana to get a degree, find a job, or have a rewarding career, we should wish them well and hope that one day they will return. But, if our young people feel like they have to leave Louisiana to get a degree, find a job, or have a rewarding career, then we are failing our children.
Committee approves budget that funds TOPS, not hospitals
With a $600 million financial gap to contend with, the House committee ended up pushing as much money as it could find toward TOPS while leaving the hospitals for the poor and uninsured still short on cash for the budget cycle that begins July 1.
A $600 million deficit for the next fiscal year means that critical services in health care, K-12 education, higher education and the TOPS program will be drastically underfunded. We have already cut more than $230 million in state spending from the first special session, and if these new cuts were to be imposed, we could further cripple our colleges and universities and eliminate lifesaving health care services that families in Louisiana depend on for survival.

Source:
