Public Statements
Gov. Edwards, OJJ Announce Retirement of Dr. Mary Livers
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: May 12, 2016
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Today, Governor John Bel Edwards announced the retirement of Dr. Mary Livers, Deputy Secretary of the Office of Juvenile Justice (OJJ). Dr. Livers led OJJ since October 2008 and dedicated her career to improving the quality of life for adults and juveniles involved with the criminal justice system.
"I congratulate Dr. Livers on her retirement and wish her the very best during this new chapter," said Governor Edwards. "Her service and leadership in the Office of Juvenile Justice for the past eight and a half years have laid the ground work for the important ongoing task of improving the treatment of at-risk youth and youth in state care."
Dr. Livers is the President of the American Correctional Association (ACA) where she served a term on its Board of Governors, and has been a member of numerous committees. She is a charter member of the Association of Women Executives in Corrections (AWEC). She collaborated with other professionals to create a pilot training model for women in corrections that was adopted and used by the National Institute for Corrections.
"It has been a privilege to work alongside juvenile justice system partners in Louisiana for the last eight and a half years," said Dr. Livers. "We have been able to come together on the common goal of treating young people while supporting public safety so that they are successful in life going forward. At this time, I will be retiring to spend more time focusing on my family. My best wishes go out to the administration and system partners in their efforts to support Louisiana being a model for juvenile justice reform."
Gov. Edwards also announced that Dr. James Bueche will serve as the Interim-Deputy Secretary of OJJ until a thorough search for Dr. Livers' replacement is completed. Dr. Bueche has a background in adult and juvenile corrections and currently serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Office of Adult Services of the Louisiana Department of Public Safety and Corrections (DOC). Previously, he served as the Director of Juvenile Probation and Parole at DOC, where he worked to redesign the continuum of community-based services and implement an evidence-based approach.
"Dr. Bueche brings exciting experience and talent to OJJ and I am confident that he will extend an evidence-based and therapeutic approach to the services we provide youth in state care. OJJ will be in good hands until we find a permanent replacement to lead this office and the important work it does," said Gov. Edwards.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/edwards-ojj-announce-retirement-of-dr-mary-livers
