Public Statements
Governor's Office to Meet with Residents of St. Joseph, Discuss Next Steps for Town
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: May 5, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor John Bel Edwards has directed key members of his staff to travel to the town of St. Joseph, LA on Monday, May 9, to speak with the residents about the next steps toward repairing the town's water system and treatment plant.
"The people who live in St. Joseph deserve to have clear, clean water consistently available in their homes and businesses," said Gov. Edwards. "This problem has been overlooked for too long, and I am determined to solve it. My administration is working hard every day to improve the water quality for the families of St. Joseph."
Since Gov. Edwards' first week in office, the Edwards Administration has worked closely with community, parish, and state officials to identify and resolve the issues that have led to St. Joseph's poorly maintained water system and inability to consistently deliver clear, clean water to its citizens for several years now.
Gov. Edwards added, "It is my hope that everyone who can help to remedy the problem will work with us to speed this process along, rather than slow it down."
To date, St. Joseph has not yet completed its 2015 financial audit which was due at the end of the year. Without the audit, the State cannot legally release the remainder of the $7.8 million in construction funds that are available for repair of the town's water lines and treatment plant.
On April 29, a state panel recommended an independent fiscal administrator -- in essence, a financial manager -- be appointed to improve the town's financial practices and records. Under the law, the State must next ask a court to approve that appointment. If court approval is granted, the State will then remove St. Joseph from the audit non-compliance list, sending the designated funds to the town so that repair work can begin.
Approximately 1,100 people live in St. Joseph, and the water system serves an estimated 1,761 individuals. Mrs. Louise Taylor and her family have lived there for decades and her husband, who is now deceased, served on the Tensas Parish School Board for several years. "Living with brown water for so long has really been a hardship for us in St. Joseph," said Mrs. Taylor. "It's a problem in so many ways. We are uncomfortable using it to drink, bathe, and wash. Clean water would be a blessing. I really appreciate what the governor and his staff are doing, and I hope that we can get the help we need to do right by our people."
What: Governor's staff will meet with residents of St. Joseph
When: Monday, May 9, 2016
Time: 5 p.m.
Where: St. Joseph Community House
501 Levee Street
St. Joseph, LA 71366

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/governors-office-to-meet-with-residents-of-st-joseph
