Public Statements
Gov. Edwards Announces that Two LCTCS Construction Projects Will Continue
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor John Bel Edwards and Monty Sullivan, President of the Louisiana Community and Technical College System (LCTCS), announced that two construction projects currently underway will proceed. Gov. Edwards has directed that construction projects at the St. Tammany Campus of the Northshore Technical Community College and the Winnsboro Campus of the Louisiana Delta Community College proceed because the projects met certain criteria, including their stages in the process and assurances from LCTCS that no additional funds will be needed for construction or operation of these facilities.
"While I wish the state were in a position to move forward on all of our projects, the current budget crisis is limiting our ability to make these investments," said Gov. Edwards. "These projects were chosen for completion because of where they stand in the construction process, and LCTCS has assured me that no additional funds will be needed. I am confident we will continue to do the necessary work to stabilize our budget and we will have the ability to move forward on other projects in the future."
"These Act 360 projects are important to local communities, the state, and our industry partners, all of whom who have made significant investments to meet the state's workforce demands," said LCTCS President Sullivan. "I want to thank the Governor for a deliberate review process and decisions that are in the best interest of our people and the state's budget. We are committed to working with the administration to see the remaining ACT 360 projects to completion when the state's budget will allow."
Gov. Edwards and President Sullivan also announced that the planning and design process will be completed, but construction will not begin until the budget circumstances permit at the following campuses: the Alexandria Campus of the Central Louisiana Technical Community College, the River City Campus of Delgado Community College, and the Smiley Heights Campus of the Baton Rouge Community College.

Source:
