Public Statements
Gov. Edwards: Enrollment for Medicaid Expansion to Begin on June 1
Statement
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: April 18, 2016
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Today, Governor John Bel Edwards testified before the Senate Committee on Health and Welfare's oversight hearing on Medicaid Expansion. During the hearing, Gov. Edwards and Dr. Rebekah Gee, Secretary of the Department of Health and Hospitals (DHH), discussed the positive impact Medicaid Expansion will have on the economy and working citizens of Louisiana. Gov. Edwards also announced that enrollment for expansion will begin on June 1.
"For years, Louisianans have paid for Medicaid Expansion, only to see their tax dollars go to other states that have expanded the program," said Gov. Edwards. "This expansion of coverage will provide our working poor access to quality health insurance, while saving Louisiana more than $180 million, creating jobs, and assisting in our efforts to stabilize the budget. I am excited that we've reached this milestone, and I look forward to traveling the state in the coming weeks to talk about the positive impact Medicaid Expansion will have on our state."
"The governor made a commitment to bring our tax dollars home to provide health care for the working people of Louisiana," said Dr. Gee. "We have reached a critical milestone, and although the enrollment hasn't begun, DHH is working diligently to make sure we have all of our processes in place to begin providing this coverage to Louisiana. As we move forward, the governor and I will continue to find ways to reform the Medicaid program so it operates in the most efficient way possible for taxpayers."
On Jan. 12, in his first full day in office, Gov. Edwards signed an executive order to expand the Medicaid program in Louisiana, a program that Louisianans were already paying for with their federal taxes.
Today, Louisiana pays 40 percent of the cost of care for the uninsured, but with expansion, the state will never pay more than 10 percent of the cost. The majority of Louisianans eligible under the new plan are workers in some of Louisianans most important industries. About 70 percent of enrollees will be full-time employees in industries such as food service, tourism, and construction. It is estimated that more than 300,000 Louisianans will benefit from this expansion.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/enrollment-for-medicaid-expansion-to-begin-on-june-1
