Public Statements
Major Disaster Declared for the State of Louisiana
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: March 13, 2016
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Governor John Bel Edwards today announced that the federal government declared a major disaster for the State of Louisiana. Following a tour of several parishes, Governor Edwards requested that President Barack Obama make the declaration. The initial federal declaration is for Bossier, Claiborne, Grant, Morehouse, Ouachita, Richland, and Webster Parishes. Additional parish declarations may be made as further damage assessments are conducted.
"I have traveled to every corner of the state to assess the damage of this flooding," said Governor Edwards. "I want to emphasize that this is an initial declaration. We appreciate the quick response from the federal government to our request, and we will continue to work with them to ensure that every citizen who is impacted by this storm receives the disaster assistance he or she needs. State and local officials have given timely support to every parish in need, and we will continue to work around the clock until we are out of the woods."
On Wednesday, March 9, Governor Edwards declared a state of emergency for 16 parishes in the state. On Thursday, March 11, he amended that declaration to include the entire state. Governor Edwards made the request to President Obama on Saturday, March 12.
Federal Declarations and Types of Assistance available:
INDIVIDUAL ASSISTANCE - (Assistance to individuals and households):
The parishes of Bossier, Claiborne, Grant, Morehouse, Ouachita, Richland, and Webster.
PUBLIC ASSISTANCE - (Assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities):
The parishes of Bossier, Claiborne, Grant, Morehouse, Ouachita, Richland, and Webster for debris removal and emergency protective measures (Categories A and B), including direct federal assistance, under the Public Assistance program.
HAZARD MITIGATION GRANT PROGRAM - (Assistance for actions taken to prevent or reduce long term risk to life and property from natural hazards):

All areas in the State of Louisiana are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program.
FEMA will deploy Disaster Survivor Assistance Teams to support the registration of individuals for the Individual Assistance Grant program.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/major-disaster-declared-for-the-state-of-louisiana
