Public Statements
Statement by Gov. Edwards on House Effort to Correct Budget Deficit
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: Feb. 25, 2016
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Today, Gov. John Bel Edwards released the following statement on the House of Representatives' passage of measures to correct the largest budget deficit in Louisiana's history, $940 million for the current fiscal year, which ends June 30, and $2 billion for the next fiscal year. The legislation passed today includes the use of $128 million in rainy day funds, $200 million from the BP settlement, and certain revenue raising measures. Gov. Edwards also proposed more than $160 million in strategic cuts in government spending to balance his plan to correct the deficit.
"I would like to thank the courageous members of the House of Representatives who are working with me to fill our state's historic budget deficit," said Gov. Edwards. "I know it was not easy for anyone to vote to raise revenue -- it wasn't easy for me to propose it -- but combining these measures with the strategic cuts in my plan will allow us to stabilize our budget both in the short term and going forward. We still have some significant work ahead, and I am hopeful that the legislature will continue to work with me in a bipartisan way to address these significant challenges."
Gov. Edwards' $160 million in spending cuts included:
$21 million made by an executive order
$38 million recommended by the governor to the Joint Legislative Committee on the Budget (and approved by the committee)
$29.5 million recommended to the legislature
$70 million in supplemental requests from agencies that will not be fulfilled
In addition, Gov. Edwards has taken further action to increases efficiencies within the Executive Branch by imposing a hiring freeze across state government and signing an executive order calling for a reduction in state contracts.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/statement-by-gov-edwards-on-house-effort-to-correct-budget-deficit
