Public Statements
Gov. Edwards Urges Prompt Action To Allow St. Joseph Water System Repairs to Move Forward
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: Feb. 22, 2016
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Today, Governor John Bel Edwards urged the mayor of the Town of St. Joseph to move quickly so that construction to repair the town's water system may begin as soon as possible. Representatives from the Governor's Office, Department of Health and Hospitals, Division of Administration, Senator Francis Thompson's office, Environmental Protection Agency, Delta Regional Authority, and the Tensas Parish Police Jury have been in continued contact with St. Joseph officials since Gov. Edwards took office, working to provide St. Joseph residents access to clear, clean drinking water.
Sample testing performed by the Department of Health and Hospitals has repeatedly shown that the town's water does not present any immediate health or safety risk to the residents, although the water remains brown in color and not pleasant to drink. Frequent problems with the water system, though, do sometimes require state officials to implement boil water orders for St. Joseph residents, while tests are done to ensure that there is no contamination in the water.
"It is the health and safety of the residents of St. Joseph that continues to remain top of mind to me and my staff," Gov. Edwards said. "That is why I am requesting that the mayor of St. Joseph move with all diligence, both in providing the town's auditors with the records they need to complete their audit, and also in taking the steps necessary to pull together available funding so that water system repairs can begin as quickly as possible."
Phase 1 of construction to repair St. Joseph's water system is estimated to cost $1.2 million. St. Joseph is hoping to have the legislature agree to move $600,000 of Priority 5 state Capital Outlay funding to Priority 1 during the regular legislative session so that construction might begin soon. Further, St. Joseph has been awarded $310,000 in other emergency grant funds to make repairs to its water plant and water distribution system. However, in order to receive any state funding, the town would have to demonstrate a clean audit, which it currently cannot show, or transfer the grants to Tensas Parish for administration, which requires resolutions by both the town and the parish.
At this time, the following steps are requiring action on the part of St. Joseph's mayor:
(1) That the mayor would produce records to the town's auditors, who are attempting to complete both a financial audit on the Town of St. Joseph and a gas line audit;
(2) That the mayor would present to St. Joseph's Board of Aldermen a resolution transferring to Tensas Parish the ability to administer grant funding from the Community Water Enrichment Fund.
(3) That the mayor would send a letter to Community Development Block Grant administrators requesting that Louisiana Government Assistance Program funding previously requested for grass-cutting equipment instead be requested for water repair funding.
(4) That the mayor would send a letter to the Commissioner of Administration requesting that the commissioner seek authority during the regular legislative session to move $600,000 Priority 5 Capital Outlay funding for the Town of St. Joseph to Priority 1.
"I am respectfully requesting that the mayor not keep the people of St. Joseph waiting any longer to start on sorely-needed repairs to the town's water distribution pipes and, as soon as possible, to the town's water treatment plant," said Gov. Edwards.
The Environmental Protection Agency is now also expected to provide a written recommendation to St. Joseph on how to best complete all of the necessary repairs to the 90-year-old system as quickly as possible. Repairs to both St. Joseph's water distribution system as well as its water treatment plant are currently expected to cost a total of $6.6 million.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/gov-edwards-urges-prompt-action-to-allow-st-joseph-water-system-repairs-to-move-forward
