Public Statements
Gov. Edwards Launches the Louisiana Housing Heroes Initiative
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: March 21, 2017
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Today, Gov. John Bel Edwards announced the Louisiana Housing Heroes Initiative, a new initiative to help make affordable housing more readily available to hundreds of families and individuals who remain displaced due to last year's severe flooding.
"There are many citizens who have not been able to return to their homes and are desperately searching for decent, safe and affordable places to live," said Gov. Edwards. "I am asking every landlord and manager of rental housing complexes across this great state to become a hero and help our fellow Louisianans by simply letting us know if you have any units that are available and move-in ready, or with simple repairs can be made habitable. The need is great but so is the level of compassion and concern we have for each other, which is why I'm excited to work with our state and federal partners to bring this new resource to our people."
Louisiana Housing Heroes is a statewide initiative to increase affordable rental housing capacity following the 2016 floods in Louisiana. The initiative will consist of an outreach campaign to landlords and property owners in the parishes affected by the flooding in order to target viable housing units. It's a collaborative effort by Gov. Edwards, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Louisiana Housing Corporation.
"This initiative gives Louisianans a real opportunity to demonstrate our ability to come together during difficult times," said Keith Cunningham, Executive Director of the Louisiana Housing Corporation. "While many family members and friends have taken in those impacted by the floods, there is nothing better than having your own space in which to live. Helping our citizens find housing is integral to helping them rebuild their lives, and we believe that the many landlords and property managers around the state are going to be proud to take part in this effort."
To find out more about how to become a Louisiana Housing Hero visit the Louisiana Housing Corporation's web site at www.lhc.la.gov. You may also call contact Gay Owens at (225)242-1390 or via email at gowens@lhc.la.gov.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/gov-edwards-launches-the-louisiana-housing-heroes-initiative
