Public Statements
Gov. Edwards Highlights Newly Announced British Airways Services between New Orleans and London
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: Oct. 20, 2016
Location: New Orleans, LA

Gov. John Bel Edwards highlighted British Airways' new year-round service to London from New Orleans beginning March 27, 2017. The company announced today that new international non-stop flight departs four times per week from Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport, or MSY, to London Heathrow, or LHR, where passengers can connect seamlessly to over 130 destinations in Europe and beyond. This newly announced service is the sixth international destination for Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport.
A broad collaboration that includes the State of Louisiana, the City of New Orleans, The New Orleans Convention and Visitors Bureau, Greater New Orleans Inc., Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport, and others partnered together with British Airways to facilitate this latest addition to New Orleans' international flight destinations.
"Reconnecting New Orleans and London with nonstop flights makes perfect business and tourism sense for our state," Edwards said. "More travelers come to the U.S. from the U.K. than any other nation outside the Americas, and New Orleans experienced the biggest growth rate in overseas visitors of any U.S. city last year. We have prepared for this opportunity extensively in collaboration with the airport, the City of New Orleans, the New Orleans CVB, Greater New Orleans Inc., Louisiana Economic Development and other partners. Our collective efforts to attract British Airways will build the global tourism brand of New Orleans, create new jobs in the region and generate significant international business development for Louisiana."
Customers of the four-times-per-week service will fly aboard a Boeing 787-800 Dreamliner, one of the newest aircraft in the British Airways fleet. The new service will depart from London Heathrow at 3:40 p.m. and arrive at Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport at 7:40 p.m. The departure will be at 9:10 p.m. from New Orleans arriving into London Heathrow's Terminal 5 at noon the next day.
"We are delighted to be adding New Orleans to the British Airways global network," said Simon Brooks, senior vice president, sales, for British Airways. "It's such a vibrant city and like London, it boasts an iconic music and arts scene. I'm sure it will be a big hit with British visitors. We are also pleased to be connecting our two cities as developing technology hubs and look forward to increased business opportunities as a result of the new service."
British Airways' state-of-the-art Boeing 787-800 Dreamliner aircraft accommodates 214 customers across three cabins, with 154 seats in World Traveller (economy), 25 seats in World Traveller Plus (premium economy) and 35 seats in Club World (business). All customers can enjoy free meals, beverages and a free checked bag.
"For years, we have pursued bringing more direct international flights to Armstrong Airport, and with the addition of British Airways, it's clear our hard work is paying off," said New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu "Now, travelling from London to New Orleans and likewise from New Orleans abroad will be more economical and save time, unleashing new economic ties and cultural exchanges for our region's businesses. Nonstop flights to London open a gateway to new international markets that will create jobs and new opportunity. In advance of our city's tricentennial in 2018 and the opening of new North Terminal project, New Orleans is poised for big things as we welcome more travelers from around the world to our world-class city."
This services marks the first direct flights for New Orleans to London since the early 1980s, when British Airways operated flights to and from London Gatwick airport. Flights for the new service will begin in spring 2017, and flight tickets are available to purchase on ba.com starting today.
"The new partnership with BA will drive the brand of New Orleans as a world destination not only in the U.K., but throughout the European continent," said Stephen Perry, President & CEO of the New Orleans Convention & Visitors Bureau. "With the new Dreamliner and all of its amenities, we will have a top of class aircraft directly connecting London to New Orleans. We will jointly forge an entirely new marketing approach in collaboration with BA and our London office that will be a huge part of a greatly ramped up international marketing program, designed to generate hundreds of millions of new top line dollars to the Greater New Orleans region."
""Game changer' is the best way to describe this announcement," said Michael Hecht, President & CEO of GNO, Inc. "Reconnecting the New Orleans region to London and Europe for the first time since 1982 will have a dramatic positive impact on tourism, conventions and business -- and will go a long way towards making New Orleans once again a truly global economic player. Landing this flight was the result of a remarkable 4+ year public/private effort, that emphatically demonstrates the power of partnership and perseverance. The entire team is thrilled to welcome British Airways to New Orleans."

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/gov-edwards-highlights-newly-announced-british-airways-services-between-new-orleans-and-london
