Public Statements
Gov. Edwards Recognizes Male Breast Cancer Awareness Week
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: Oct. 17, 2016
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Gov. John Bel Edwards has issued a proclamation recognizing Male Breast Cancer Awareness Week in Louisiana for October 16-22, 2016.
"Many people may automatically associate breast cancer with women only, but that is a huge misconception because this disease does not discriminate," said Gov. John Bel Edwards. "It's shocking to learn that thousands of men are expected to be diagnosed with breast cancer each year and that hundreds may die. Education and early detection are important for women and men. I commend the Male Breast Cancer Coalition for raising our awareness and advocating on behalf of men who are diagnosed and are surviving here in Louisiana and all over the world."
The Male Breast Cancer Coalition was started by Cheri Ambrose of New Jersey and Bret Miller in 2013. Bret first discovered a lump in his breast at age 17 and had a mastectomy at age 24. Since then, they have been on a mission to build awareness through wisdom and the experiences of survivors.
"Our Male Breast Cancer Coalition is working hard every day to change the way the world views breast cancer in men," said Cheri Ambrose. "Our men are courageously sharing their stories of survival and taking part in awareness campaigns across the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia to assure that men everywhere who are diagnosed get the best treatment possible. Together we will change the world."
Important facts from the American Cancer Society:
An estimated 2,600 men in the United States are diagnosed with breast cancer each year.
An estimated 440 men will die from the disease each year.
Some of the risk factors for men include obesity, age, family history and alcohol.
For men, the lifetime risk of getting breast cancer is about 1 in 1,000.
The number of breast cancer cases in men relative to the population has been fairly stable over the last 30 years.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/edwards-recognizes-male-breast-cancer-awareness-week
