Public Statements
Gov. Edwards' Statement on the Inclusion of Flood Relief Funding in CR
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: Sept. 22, 2016
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Today, Gov. John Bel Edwards released the following statement on the inclusion of flood relief funding in the Continuing Resolution (CR) to be considered by Congress. The Continuing Resolution (CR) contains $500 million for flood relief less than two months after the flooding began.
"Historic flooding has uprooted homes and communities in every corner of our state," said Gov. Edwards. "The people who've been impacted need to be reassured that help is on the way, and I am extremely grateful to the president and our entire congressional delegation for their commitment to bring much-needed relief to the people of Louisiana. Make no mistake, this is a down payment from the federal government on our recovery needs, and I am hopeful and optimistic that the final CR passed by Congress will include this assistance. I look forward to working with Congress in the coming months to address Louisiana's long-term flood relief.
"I couldn't be more appreciative of the collaborative , bipartisan manner in which we all worked to have this funding included in the CR so quickly. Everyone, from our entire congressional delegation to Lieutenant Governor Billy Nungesser and Agriculture Commissioner Mike Strain, played a significant role in making this happen. The people of Louisiana should have confidence in their elected leader's ability to work together for the betterment of this state, and I know we'll continue that approach when Congress returns after the election to bring additional assistance home."
Gov. Edwards made three trips to Washington, DC to lobby Congress for federal assistance in the CR. During his visits, he met with Congressional leaders, including House Speaker Paul Ryan, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid. In addition, Gov. Edwards met with various members of Congress who are influential in the appropriations process and related to flood insurance, as well as members of the Obama Administration who formally requested the additional assistance from Congress on September 13, 2016.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/edwards-statement-on-the-inclusion-of-flood-relief-funding-in-cr
