Public Statements
The Advocate - In Wake of Baton Rouge Shootings, It's Time to Heal
Op-Ed
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: July 23, 2016
Location: Unknown

By John Bel Edwards
The past several days and weeks have left hearts heavy throughout Baton Rouge, our state and our nation. The pain felt by all of us is real. Still, remember that we are resilient. We have endured unspeakable loss, but we will not allow it to destroy or define us. The answers to all of our questions may never come, yet if we are willing to heal together as a community, we will be the better for it.
I know it's difficult to be hopeful at a time like this, but while we continue to grieve, it helps to look for all the good there is in our community. We are surrounded every day by countless acts of immeasurable kindness and goodwill. How can we not be hopeful when diverse people around the state are coming together in a spirit of peace, hope and unity? We will always be strong together because we know love has the power to defeat hate every time.
Our actions and words matter. Constructive and sometimes uncomfortable conversations are necessary to build trust and improve relationships with each other, and we already see that beginning to happen.
The death of Alton Sterling sparked an outcry of protests. Emotions ran high. I, along with law enforcement, faith leaders and Mr. Sterling's family, pleaded that any protests and demonstrations remain lawful, peaceful and nonviolent. In many ways, the citizens of Baton Rouge set the bar high and were an example to the rest of the nation. In fact, there was not a single incident of serious violence or injury. No arrests were made relative to demonstrations in the week following Sunday, July 10.
Everything changed on Sunday, July 17. A day of prayer became a day of unspeakable violence. The senseless and unjustifiable attacks on six law enforcement officers by an out-of-state shooter rocked us to our core. It was an attack on all of us.
The heroism demonstrated by these brave officers as they protected Baton Rouge and one another will never be forgotten. Three were wounded, with one still fighting for his life, and three paid the ultimate price: Baton Rouge Police Department Officers Montrell Jackson and Matthew Gerald, and East Baton Rouge Parish sheriff's Deputy Brad Garafola. They were husbands, fathers, brothers, friends, neighbors and co-workers. Running toward danger, they were true to their values until the very end. They fought for what is right, good and decent. We must continue to uphold the same values if we are to properly honor their memories. As we honor them, let us never forget that "greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends."
What happened that day in no way reflects who we are as a community, a state or a country. However, it reminds us that life is fleeting and first-responders put their lives on the line every day to protect us. We owe them our gratitude and respect. They deserve to return home to their families and loved ones each night like all of us.
We are all in this together, regardless of race, religion or socio-economic background. As Louisianans and Americans, all of us must work to bridge the divide that is causing violence and hatred to tear communities apart. The solutions won't come easily or overnight, but I know we will emerge from this stronger and more united than ever. Finding common ground with one another will bring unity and healing. If ever there was a time for us to get out of our comfort zones, to reach out and to connect with our neighbors, that time is now. Rather than waiting on others, let us begin with ourselves.
I believe in the awesome power of prayer. It can be transformational. Invoking the words of St. Francis of Assisi, please join your prayers to mine: "Lord, let me be a channel of your peace. Where there is hatred, let me sow love."
Louisiana, we can do better. We will do better, and we will be better.

Source: http://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/baton_rouge_officer_shooting/article_ba6c3d6c-504c-11e6-8079-cfff122e74a7.html
