Public Statements
The News Star - Gov. Edwards: 'We can do better'
News Article
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: July 11, 2016
Location: Unknown

By Greg Hilburn
Gov. John Bel Edwards said he believes black men are inordinately victims of police violence, but he doesn't regret signing the nation's first "Blue Lives Matter" law last month and hasn't softened his stance against gun restrictions.
In an interview with the USA Today Network of Louisiana Monday, the governor said the police shooting of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge last week and the later ambush and murder of five Dallas police officers have left his state and the nation unsettled.
"This is a significant event that is causing a tremendous amount of anxiety, but one from which we can all learn," Edwards said. "We can do better."
Edwards said he has been criticized for saying the video of Sterling's shooting, which has generated mass protests in Louisiana's capital city, was "disturbing" and from others "because I didn't call for the immediate arrest and prosecution of the officers involved in the shooting."
It's an illustration, Edwards said, of a powder keg mentality and reluctance of people on either side to allow conversation .
"When I called the video disturbing, some folks thought it was a condemnation of the officers," he said. "From the other side when I didn't call for the immediate arrest of the officers it was taken by some as not striking the right balance.
"But I don't think anyone who saw the video could say it wasn't disturbing, and I don't believe the officers should be condemned without a thorough investigation.
"People are scared to engage in conversation because they could be blasted for either being a racist or being blindly pro law enforcement."
￼
Edwards said data shows black men are treated differently by police in America.
"I don't think there's any doubt about that," he said. "Any one incident in isolation could be explained, but if theses incidents are taken together it becomes clear that law enforcement encounters with African-American males are more likely to result in questionable force. Reality is reality. I don't think it serves us well to ignore it."
Edwards, who comes from four generations of sheriffs in Tangipahoa Parish, signed what became known as Rep. Lance Harris' "Blue Lives Matter" bill in May that made violence against police a hate crime.
"I don't see anything inappropriate about my support for law enforcement or my support from law enforcement," said Edwards, who was endorsed by the Louisiana Sheriffs Association. "First-responders should be able to serve without being targeted just because they are police. That's the least we can do.
"That said, I don't think because you support ('Blue Lives Matter') means you don't support 'Black Lives Matter.' The two aren't mutually exclusive."
Edwards also said he remains "comfortable" with his position against gun restrictions. Louisiana is among the states with the most liberal gun protection laws in the country. "I don't know of any gun law that would have prevented the death of Mr. Sterling."
The governor does support more police training to avoid future fatal encounters with police.
"We have an obligation to examine what we're doing and see if changes are in order, and I happen to think they are," he said. "In fact, that's what many in law enforcement are telling me. We can look at best practices in other areas that have reduced these lethal encounters."
About 180 protesters in Baton Rouge have been arrested since Sterling's shooting, but Edwards said the relative lack of injurious violence shows local and state police have acted appropriately.
"I'm extremely pleased (with the police response)," Edwards said. "The response has been moderate; not extreme. There hasn't been a significant act of violence since Mr. Sterling's shooting."
The governor said he supports the protesters' right to free speech, "but there are certain things we just can't allow. On a couple of occasions they wanted to occupy major thoroughfares -- federal highways -- and that simply won't work."

Source: http://www.thenewsstar.com/story/news/local/louisiana/2016/07/11/gov-edwards-we-can-do-better/86958750/
