Public Statements
Gov. Edwards' Remarks from a Vigil for Alton Sterling
Statement
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: July 7, 2016
Location: Unknown

Yesterday Donna and I had the opportunity to meet with Alton Sterling's family -- with his aunt, Sandra Sterling, along with Quinyetta McMillan and her mother Idell. I want to thank Sandra tonight, and I want to tell you how impressed I am with Sandra, and with her strength. I asked her to join me in calling out for people, while they wanted to give voice to their concerns, to their anger, their anxiety, and their sadness. I wanted her to help me convince the people of Baton Rouge that now is the time, maybe for demonstration, and it may be a time for protest. But there is no time for violence. There is no time for destruction of property either.
What Sandra told me was, "But mine is a weak voice. I'm nobody. If I say it, no one is going to listen." I assured her that she's got the strongest voice in Baton Rouge today on this issue. I want to thank Sandra for speaking out. I learned yesterday that she is a part of the Stop the Violence movement. She has been engaged in calls for this for a long time. So to have her assist me, and all of us, in delivering that message is especially fitting. And once again, I want to thank her.
We are here tonight to pray, and I believe in the awesome power of prayer. I join you tonight in praying for the Sterling family, for one another, and for the Baton Rouge community. God has a way of loving us and giving us what we need, and many of the things he does for us we don't even understand at the time. But there is a peace that comes from God if we allow ourselves to be silent and accept it. I know he will shower us with that peace if we just ask for it.
Many of you are no doubt wondering where we go from here. How are we going to move forward, even when the national spotlight has moved on from Baton Rouge? Well, I want to assure you as your governor that we are going to come out of this tragedy stronger and more united than ever. We share a unique bond, everybody in this room, everybody watching this from somewhere else. People in Louisiana are resilient in times of adversity. That is our greatest strength. I have seen it being demonstrated time and time again, but especially over these last couple of days.
Yesterday, early in the morning after speaking with numerous state and local officials and law enforcement, I decided the best course of action would be for the United States Department of Justice to lead the investigation into this matter. I made that request, and I want you to know that today a criminal investigation is underway. It is being led by the United States Department of Justice's Civil Rights Division. Today, I had another meeting with Mike Edmonson of the State Police, Jeff Sallet of the FBI's New Orleans Division, and the U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Louisiana Walt Green. I pledged that all of the resources of the State of Louisiana would be available to assist.
I want to assure you that I believe that the Department of Justice will conduct a very professional, impartial, and thorough investigation, but I am asking everyone to be patient. Investigations take time. There is a lot of evidence to gather, wittiness to speak to, and physical evidence has to be examined. All of this has to be put together. In the meantime, knowing how professional this investigative team is, there are not going to be leaks of information. And you don't want leaks of information because that would undermine the credibility and integrity of the investigation. So in the meantime, we have to be to be patient as we go through this process.
We have to also try to make sense of this tragedy, and I know that right now that may seem like an impossibility, but I think we have the responsibility to take an honest look and confront the problems before us. How can we do better? How can we be better? It starts with understanding that this is our community. I want you to know how proud I am of our community. We had a vigil last night, it was attended by hundreds and hundreds of people. It was followed by protests by people who felt like they needed to give voice to their sadness, their anger, and their anxiety. But throughout that process, it remained peaceful. That is a testament to the people of Baton Rouge. I want you to know that I am proud of the Baton Rouge community.
There are no simple answers, but I think we can start by working to restore trust between law enforcement and the community. I think we can acknowledge the underlying problems that lead to and arise out of incidents such as the one we experienced a couple of days ago. We can do both while respecting and appreciating the vast majority of law enforcement professionals who risk their lives every day to protect us and keep our communities safe. I want you to know that we are going to have a renewed focus on training, on re-training, and on supervision. We will develop new standards of behavior, determining what is appropriate as law enforcement engages with citizens. We have to introduce people to law enforcement earlier, so that there is trust and confidence. We also have to make sure that law enforcement are the professionals that we expect and want them to be. They are here first and foremost to protect and serve.
I have tremendous respect for law enforcement. Many of you may not know it, but I have four consecutive generations of sheriffs in my family: my great-grandfather, my grandfather, my father, and now my brother. But just like me, none of them were perfect either. Like every other profession that can be improved, law enforcement can also be improved. I want you to know that the law enforcement community is reaching out to me right now and saying that they want to engage in this. That is the only way to approach this if we want to make sure that you and I are not back in this place at some future time because of another tragedy. So now is not only a time to grieve, it is a time to talk and pray and most importantly to listen. I want to single out the faith leaders in the community, about 50 of whom met with me yesterday after only an hour's notice. They came to the Capitol and met with me, and I asked them to work with me to make sure that the message that went out was one of peace, faith, and trust so that we can work together and get through this without any violence. They left that place, probably not even needing that meeting, and helped deliver that message. I want to thank them so much for being channels of peace because it is so important to the people of Baton Rouge and the people of Louisiana.
Finally, tonight as we look for answers, pray for justice, and mourn the loss of life, may we guard our hearts with the peace of God, which transcends all understanding. I want to thank all of you for being here and tell you how proud I am. We have a long way to go, we have a lot to do. I understand that, but I am proud to be your Governor. I am proud of the way you have conducted yourselves. We are showing the world just how good we are. God bless you, and may God bless the state of Louisiana.

Source: http://gov.louisiana.gov/news/remarks-from-a-vigil-for-alton-sterling
