Public Statements
Gov. Edwards: Film Program Review to Focus on Creating a Sustainable Industry for Louisiana
Press Release
By: John Bel Edwards
Date: July 5, 2016
Location: Baton Rouge, LA

Today, Governor John Bel Edwards announced Louisiana Economic Development (LED) will execute a comprehensive review of the state's Motion Picture Production Tax Credit program, with recommendations for reform and best practices to be addressed in the 2017 fiscal session. The goal will be a sustainable Louisiana film and TV production industry that provides fiscal predictability for the state. LED's analysis will include an independent examination of the program's economic impact in Louisiana as well as input from all stakeholders, including the film industry.
"Louisiana has a storied history in filmmaking, with one of the world's most diverse settings for cinematic and television productions," Gov. Edwards said. "Since the dawn of Louisiana's modern-era film program in 2002, we have played host to more than $6 billion in film and TV production. We've developed an infrastructure that supports thousands of jobs, boosts small businesses and communities statewide, and provides a powerful impact that we seek to retain.
"Today, and going forward, we're focusing on what we can do to provide greater fiscal stability to state government, while creating a sustainable path for the long-term future.
"I have full confidence in LED Secretary Don Pierson and his team, knowing they will include input from all stakeholders. I know they will deliver a strategy that accomplishes our goal of industry vitality and fiscal stability. Louisiana's film industry has my full support. We remain open for business with one of the most attractive incentive programs in the world. We will honor our commitments. Louisiana will drive this process to create a smarter, sustainable model for the future. We will establish a modern, effective program that encourages companies to establish roots in our state."

Source:
